LOAN NUMBER 3200 CRG

Loan Agreement

(Fifth Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and

CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

/8

 
LOAN NUMBER 3200 CRG
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement, dated / , 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (the Borrower), a regional development
bank established by and operating under an Agreement entered into
at Kingston, Jamaica, on October 18, 1969 by the Govermments of the
several States and Territories which were signatories thereto.

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the development credit agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association (the Association) of even date
herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing of
Part B of the Project, and by the Development Credit Agreement the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in the form of
a Credit in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to nine million
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,100,000) (the
Credit) out of which, subject to change from time to time and the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, six million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000) have been
estimated sufficient, as of the date herewith, and thus allocated
for purposes of Part B of the Project (the CDB V Project Credit);

(C) the Bank and the Borrower intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the CDB V Project Loan (as defined
in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement) provided for
in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect
of Part B of the Project pari-passu with disbursements on the
proceeds of the CDB V Project Credit; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

 
-9 -

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement, the General
Conditions and in the Development Credit Agreement except, in the
latter case, for those terms that are defined in paragraphs (b), (d)
and (f) below, have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following terms have the following meanings:

(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes the "General Conditicns Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agrecment;

(b) "Eligible Country" means any state or territory that,
on the date on which disbursements from the Loan Account have been
authorized by the Bank in respect of an IBRD Sub-loan for an
Investment Project partially or totally located in such state or
territory, was listed in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower; the term "OECS Eligible Country" means an Eligible
Country, as defined herein above, that at the same date referred to
above was a member of the Organization; and the term "Government"
means the government of an Eligible Country and, if the context so
requires for purposes of this Agreement (including the General
Conditions) other than authorizations of disbursements from the Loan
Accounc, of any country that at one point in: time was either an
Eligible Country and later ceased to be so or was not an Eligible
Country and later become so;

(e) "IBRD Sub-lcan® means'a loan made ox proposed to be made
out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower: (i) to a Government
for the carrying out of an Investment Project directly or by means
of an Investment into or a Secondary Lean to, an Investment
Enterprise, or a financial intermediary that shall use the proceeds

 
-3 .

of the Sub-loan as described in (iii) below; (ii) to an Investment
Enterprise, with the guarantee of a Government, for the carrying out
by such Investment Enterprise of an Investment Project; or (iii)
also with the guarantee of a Government, to a financial intermediary
that shall be using the proceeds of the Sub-loan exclusively for the
financing of one or more Investment Projects by means of Investments
into, or Secondary Loans to, one or more Investment Enteiprises
vhich will carry out said Investment Project; and the terms "IDA
Sub-loan" and "Sub-loans" have the respective meaning stipulated in
Section 1.02 (f) of the Development Credit Agreement;

(@) "Secondary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made out of the proceeds of one or more IBRD Sub-loans to an
Investment Enterprise by: (i) a Government; or (ii) a financial
intermediary that has borrowed from the Borrower under an IRRD Sub-
loan or has received proceeds of an IBRD Sub-loan from a Government
by means either of an equity contribution or a loan, in both cases
for the purposes of making, inter alia, one or more loans such as
the loan in question to one or more Investment Enterprises;
provided, however, that, in cise of a loan made with the
intermediation of financial institutions and exclusively for the
purposes of this Agreement, the loan in question shall be deemed

made to the Investment Enterprise regardless of the form of such
intermediation and the nature of the risk attached thereto;

(e) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any of the following
agreements: (i) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
dated April 20, 1976 (Caribbean Development Bank Project) Loan 1233
CRG; (ii) the Loan Agr:ement between the Bank and the Borrower dated
April 20, 1976 (Caribbean Development Bank Project) Loan 1234 T-CRG;
and (iii) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated
January 9, 198C (Second Caribbean Development Bank Project), and the
term "Prior Loan" means a loan provided for under any Prior Loan
Agreement; and

£ "Investment" means an equity contributicn made or
proposed to be made, out of the proceeds of one or more IBRD Sub-
loans: (i) into an Investment Enterprise, in the case the equity
contribution in question is made or proposed to be made, by a
Government or by a financial intermediary that has borrowed under
an IBRD Sub-loan for the purposes of making, inter alia, equity
contributions into one or more Investment Enterprises; or (ii) into
a financial intermediary, when the equity contribution in question
is made or proposed to be made by a Govermment and the financial
intermediary in question shall, on its turn, use the proceed of such

 
-4 -

equity contribution exclusively to make one or more equity
contributions into, or Secondary Loans to, one or more Investment
Enterprises.

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement for expenditures made. (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.04 of the
General Conditions and except otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, no reallocation of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
made from Category 1 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement before the third
anniversary of the Effective Date. Any such agreement shall, on the
side of the Borrower, be deemed made by the Borrower after con-
sultation with the OECS Eligible Countries.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at a rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower

 
shall pay interest acerued on the principal amount outstanding
during the Preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending

on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (4) the
Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may be
made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (e)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outs tanding from time to time
at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the Preceding Quarter,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

 
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and each Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrcwings determined in respect of
such Quarter."

"(ec) (4ii) ‘'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. Any notice from the Borrower in
respect of pre-payment of the Loan or any portion thereof, pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
shall be deemed by the Bank made by the Borrower on its own behalf
and on behalf of and with the consent of the applicable Guarantor.

Section 2.08. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, if an IBRD Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity ox if an IBRD Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account
in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank, together with the premiums specified in Schedule
3 te this Agreement.

Section 2.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not utilize, or permit the utilization of, the
proceeds of the Loan to co-finance projects financed by the proceeds
of any other loan or credit made by the Bank or the Association.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project
and Financial Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, and 4.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, except for paragraph
3 (a) thereof, 2, 4, except for Part B thereof, and 6 thereto are

 
incorporated in this Loan Agreement, with the following
modifications in said Sections and Schedules 2, 4 and 6, unless the
context otherwise requires:

(1) the term “"Association" shall be read as "Bank";

(ii) the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
read as "Loan" and "Loan Account"; and

(iii) the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the
Development Credit Agreement".

(b) So long as any part of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless
the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:

(i) all action taken, including approvals given, by
the Association pursuant to any part of the
Sections of, and Schedules to, the Development
Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of
this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02
of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be
deemed to be taken or givem in the name and on
behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and

all information or documentation furnished by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of any of such Sections of the
Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
Association and the Bank.

Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgement of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.

 
-8 -

ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank

Section 4.0l1., Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) the events set out in Section 5.01, except for
paragraphs (c) (i) and (¢} (iv) thereof, of the Development Credit
Agreement, and the stipulations in the proviso to paragraph (d) of
such Section 5.01 are incorporated in this Loan Agreement; and

(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the respective contractual.-instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.

Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) the events set out in Section 5.02 of the Develoment
Credit Agreement are incorporated in this Loan Agreement; and

(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01
above shall occur.

ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination

Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement other than those related to the effectiveness of
this Agreement have been fulfilled.

Section 5.02. The date of September 18, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes 'of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions. ’

 
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminated
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the Bank.

ARTICLE VI

Addresses

Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Caribbean Development Bank
P.0. Box 408

Wildey

St. Michael

Barbados, W.I.

Cable address: Telex:

CARIBANK WB 2287
Barbados

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex:

INTBAFRAD 197688 (TRT)

Washington, D.C. 248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)

 
- 10 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement tc be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By W . M &J\/
W Regional Vice President
Latii America and the Caribbean

CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

) Atk L. tlonstl

Authorized Representative

 
- 11 -

SCHEDULES 1, 2, 4 AND 6

Schedules 1, 2, 4 and 6 to the Development Credit Agreement
shall be deemed incorporated in this Loan Agreement pursuant to,
and in accordance with, Section 3.01 (a) of this Loan Agreement.

 
- 12 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)¥*

On each April 15 and October 135

beginning October 15, 1995
through October 15, 2006 835,000

On April 15, 2007 795,000

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

 
T, 5 N i,

3
i
z
§

o
i

o
¢
i
{
%
t
1
:
i
:
4

Premiums on Prepayment

The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity

than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity

than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity

than fifteen years before
maturity

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as
a  percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:

0.18

0.35

 
- 14 -

SCHEDULE 5

Eligible Countries

Anguilla

Barbados

Belize

Dominica

Grenada

Jamaica

Montserrat

St. Kitts and Nevis

Saint Lucia

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago

Turks and Caicos Islands

 
- 15 -

SCHEDULE 7
Modifications of the General Conditions

For purposes of this Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

1. Paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 14 and 15 of Section 2.0l are deleted and
replaced by the following paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 14 and 15 and the
following new paragraphs 21 and 22 are added to said Section:

"4, 'Loan' means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement
and, if the context so requires, the term may also mean a
portion of the Loan to the extent of the amounts of the Loan
withdrawn for IBRD Sub-loans (as defined in the Loan
Agreement) made to a Guarantor or, with the guarantee or
approval of a Guarantor, to any agencies or instrumentalities
thereof, and, additionally, all IBRD Sub-loans for the
Investment Project or Projects and Regional Investment
Projects, described or referred to in Schedules 1 and 2 to the
Guarantee Agreement, respectively."

AT

"5. 'Guarantee Agreement' means any agreement between a
member of the Bank and the Bank providing for a guarantee in
favor of the Bank of a portion or portions of the Loan applied
to finance IBRD Sub-loans under the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time. 'Guarantee Agreement'
includes these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee
Agreement."

"7. 'Guarantor' means the member of the Bank which is a
party to a Guarantee Agreement."

"14. 'External debt' means any debt which is or may become
payable other than in the currency of the country
corresponding to the applicable Government."

"15. ‘'Effective Date' means the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall enter into effect as provided in Section
12.03."

“"21. 'CDB Fifth Development Credit Agreement' means the
Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the
Borrower of even date with the Loan Agreement, and the term

 
3.

- 16 -

includes the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01
of the said Development Credit Agreement as applied thereto,
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the said
Development Credit Agreement as incorporated in the Loan
Agreement by virtue of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 thereof.”

n22. 'Eligible Country' and 'Government' have the meanings
defined in the Loan Agreement.”

Section 3.02 is deleted and replaced by the following:

%3.02. Commitment Charge. The Borrower shall pay a commitment
charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan at the rate
specified in the Loan Agreement. Such commitment charge shall
accrue in respect of each portion of the Loan allocated to a
specific IBRD Sub-loan (as defined in the Loan Agreement): (i)
from the date on which the Bank has notified the Borrower that
the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of the IBRD Sub-loan in question pursuant to sub-
paragraph (b) of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to CDB V
Development Credit Agreement or a date sixty days after the
date of the Loan Agreement, whichever comes later, to the
respective dates on which amounts of the aforesaid portion of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the IBRD Sub-loan in
question shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or shall be cancelled.”

Paragraph (b) of Section 4.10 is deleted and replaced by the

following paragraph:

4,

"(b) The principal (including premium, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan shall be paid without
restrictions of any kind imposed by any Government, or in the
territory of any Eligible Country, or in the territory where
the Borrower is located.”

Section 5.08 is deleted and replaced by the following

Section 5.08:

"Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes. It is the policy of
the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be withdrawn on
account of payments for any identifiable taxes levied by any
Government, or in the territory of the corresponding Eligible
Country or in the territory where the Borrower is located, on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,

 
6.
follo

- 17 -

procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be
consistent with such policy of the Bank."

Section 5.09. is deleted and replaced by the following Section

"Section 5.09. Payment by the Bank. The Bank shall pay
the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account
only to or on the order of the Borrower, or with the prior
and specific written request of the Borrower, to or on the
order of an agency of a Government; provided, however, that
any request of the Borrower that such amounts be paid to or
on the order of an agency of a Government shall be deemed also
4 representation made by the Borrower to the Bank that: (i)
the Borrower has received, and has agreed to, a specific
written request from an authorized representative of the
Government in question to the effect that such amounts be paid
to or on the order of the agency in question; and (ii) that
the Borrower is satisfied that the payment in question is made
in direct connection with expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under the Loan.®

Paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the
wing paragraph (a):

"(a) The Borrower shall have failed to make payment
(notwithstanding the fact that such payment may have been made
by a third party) of principal, interest, service charges or
any other amount due to the Association or the Bank: (i) under
any development credit agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, including the Development Credit Agreement,
except when the failure to make such payment is related to a
corresponding default on the part of an Eligible Country in
the payment of debt service or other charges payable pursuant
to any agreement, including a Sub-loan Agreement, under which
proceeds of the Credit or of a Prior Credit have been relent
by the Borrower to such Eligible Country, and which has given
rise to rights of the Borrower which have been assigned to the
Association, or (ii) under any loan agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, or (iii) in consequence of any

 
7

8

- 18 -

guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended
by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the
Borrower, provided, however, that, for purposes of this
paragraph a payment made to the Association by a Government
(as defined in any agreement referred to in (1) above) upon
request from the Association, exercising as assignee of the
Borrower the right of the Borrower to receive such payment
from such Government, shall not be deemed made by a third
party."

Paragraph (f) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the

fc;llowing paragraph:

"(f) (i) The Bank shall have dispatched a notice to the
Borrower indicating that any country listed in Schedule 5 to
the Loan Agreement as an Eligible Country has been deleted
therefrom; or (ii) any Eligible Country shall have been
suspended from membership in, or not been admitted as or
ceased to be a member of, the Bank; or (iii) any Eligible
Country shall have ceased to be a member of the International
Monetary Fund; provided, however, that any suspension of the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account based on this paragraph shall be limited to that part
of the Loan intended to be used to finance one or more Sub-
loans (as defined in the Loan Agreement) to such Eligible
Country; and provided further, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply, in the case of sub-paragraph (i)
above, in respect of any Sub-loan to the Eligible Country in
question in respect of which disbursements from the Loan
Account have been authorized before the dispatch referred to
in such sub-paragraph (i) has taken place.®

Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following

Section 6.03:

"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at
any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes

 
R RS o7 st AU A A

9.

- 19 -

the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) after the Closing Date, an amount
of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account,
or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 6 (b) of Part A
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, as
incorporated to the Loan Agreement or another date determined
pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph: (i) no requests
permitted under paragraph 6 (a) of such Part A shall have been
received or (ii) having been so received, shall have been
denied, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
the right of the Borrower to submit such requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Lean. Upon the giving
of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled." -

The phrase "guaranteed by the Guarantor and" are hereby

inserted after the word "Loan" in Section 6.07.

10.

The words "or guarantee" are deleted from sub-paragraph (i)

of paragraph (c) of Section 7.01.

11.

12.

Sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c¢) of Section 7.0l is hereby
deleted and replaced by the following:

"(iii) under any development credit agreement between
the Association and the Borrower (including the Development
Credit Agreement) except when the default in question is
related to a corresponding default on the part of a Government
or an Eligible Country (as defined in the agreement in
question) in the payment of debt service or other payable
charges pursuant to any agreement, including a Sub-loan
Agreement, under which proceeds of a credit granted by the
Association have been relent by the Borrower to such
Government or Eligible Country, and which has given rise to
rights of the Borrower which have been assigned to the
Association."

Section 8.01 is hereby deleted and replaced by the following

Section:

"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other
charges on, the Loan shall be paid without deductien for, and
free from, any taxes levied by a Govermment, or in the

 
14.

- 20 -

territory of the corresponding Eligible Country or in the
territory where the Borrower is located. '

(b) The Loan Agreement, and any other agreement to which
these General Conditions shall be made applicable, shall be
free from any taxes levied by a Government or in the territory
of the corresponding Eligible Country or where the Borrower
is located, on or in commection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof." :

Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following:

"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The Borrower
and the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect
to financial and economic conditions in the_Guarantor's
territory including its balance of payments and its external
debt as well as that of its political or administrative
subdivisions and any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of such Eligible Country
or any such subdivision, and any institutions performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund,
or similar functions, for the Eligible Country in question.”

All references to the Guarantee Agreement or to the Guarantor

in Sections 12.01 through 12.04 are hereby deleted.

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

FOR SECRETARY

 
