Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 8403-AZ

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Second Rural Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated (oAober—Z 2 ,2014

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8403-AZ
LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated (2 fo bLec= X L , 2014, between the
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN (“Borrower”) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank™) for the purpose of providing
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the
Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million United States Dollars
($50,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05.

2.06.

2.07.

3.01.

The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

()

(b)

©)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (¢) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IIIl — PROJECT

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PMU, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
3.02.

3.03.

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

6.01.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.0l of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:

(a) maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account in Manat
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its counterpart
contribution to the expenditures of the Project;

(b) deposit into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the
Borrower’s counterpart contributions as determined by the Borrower and
the Bank; and

(©) ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used
exclusively to finance the Borrower’s counterpart contributions to the
Project.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of namely that the Operational

Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so

as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out

of the Project.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of namely the event specified in

Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — TERMINATION

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.

3.
6.02.

6.03.

The Borrower’s Address is:

Ministry of Finance

83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022

Republic of Azerbaijan

Telex: Facsimile:
142116 BNKSL (944-12) 404-47-20
(944-12) 404-47-21

The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)

AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF AZERBATJAN

By

    

ized Representative

Name: \)\'Q:\ Acwv Q\r\g o SW b(SO\c,\DV

Title: _ YO\inasye S ff%"'\cu \rwve

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

v e tead

Authorized Representative

Name: \—0«!"\50\ \—ig'\C.\r\en\ko
Title: _ Ourdwy \V\O\M%ey'

4-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description

The objectives of the Project are to improve access to, and use of community-
driven rural infrastructure and to expand economic activities for rural households.

The Project consists of the Original Project as modified as follows:

Part A: Rural Community Infrastructure and Livelihoods

Provision of grants to finance eligible demand-driven Micro-projects: (1) in rural
infrastructure, including the connector roads pilot; and (2) in livelihoods support,
in accordance with the Operational Manual.

Part B: Technical Assistance for Rural Infrastructure and Livelihoods

1. Provision of training and consultants’ services to support micro-project
development by enhancing the capacity of engaged local stakeholders, including
communities, local authorities, Regional Grant Approval Committees and staff in
the ROOs, in all aspects of micro-project program development related to
contracting, procurement, financial management and participatory monitoring
and evaluation.

2. Provision of training and consultants’ services to carry out livelihood support
services in twenty-six (26) communities, that have already implemented
successfully, Micro-projects focused on economic infrastructure for the purpose
of developing the capacity of involved stakeholders, such as local communities,
groups and individuals to identify, plan and implement income-generating Micro-
projects.

Part C: Project Management and Results Monitoring

Provision of goods and consultants’ services to assist the PMU and its ROOs for
the purposes of effective management and implementation of Project activities,
including the monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section I. Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of
said Manual without the prior written approval of the Bank.

The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PMU within
SAAC and shall ensure that the PMU is adequately staffed by personnel with
qualifications and under terms of reference and functions at all times in
accordance with procedures necessary and appropriate for the carrying out of the
Project, and satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, ensure that the Working
Group shall be maintained with broad stakeholder representation satisfactory to
the Bank.

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Micro-projects

The Borrower shall make Grants to Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the following:

(a) Grant(s) shall be denominated in Manat.
(b) Grants for financing Micro-projects under Part A of the Project shall be:

(i) made available to: (A) community-based organizations
registered as legal entities, which consist of representatives of
rural communities with populations of more than 1,000 and less
than 10,000 (including clusters of smaller communities that add
up to 1,000); and (B) any other associations and organizations as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree, subject to the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and
©)

(d)

®

(®)

(h)

(1)

(i) used to finance the following four (4) categories of Micro-
projects which meet eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank as
set forth in the Operational Manual: (A) new Micro-projects,
including connector roads on a pilot basis; (B) second and third
generation Micro-projects; (C) cluster Micro-projects; and (D)
livelihoods support Micro-Projects.

ROOs shall launch a promotion and outreach campaign, issue requests
for Micro-project proposals and assist in the preparation of Micro-project
proposals.

Micro-project Committees formed as part of community mobilization, as
defined in the Operational Manual, shall submit proposals of Micro-
projects to ROOs on behalf of their respective community.

ROOs shall appraise and evaluate Micro-project proposals based on the
following: (i) impact on the community; (ii) institutional capacity to
implement the service intended by the Micro-project; (iii) financing
viability; and (iv) technical and environmental safety:

Any Micro-project involving land expropriation shall not be eligible for
consideration.

ROOs shall register the results and forward the summary evaluation of
proposals to the respective Regional Grant Approval Committees for
approval or rejection. Any members of the Regional Grant Approval
Committees who may have a potential conflict of interest in a particular
proposal shall recuse themselves from making a decision on that
particular proposal.

The amount of individual grants shall be based upon the estimated cost
of goods, works services and operating costs that will be required for the
Micro-project, and shall not exceed 90% of the overall costs of Micro-
projects.

The Borrower shall take necessary actions, satisfactory to the Bank, to
ensure that, where proposals approved by the Regional Grant Approval
Committees call for implementation of Micro-projects by community-
based organizations that are not already registered as legal entities, such
organizations shall be registered in accordance with the laws of ‘the
Borrower in a timely manner.

The Borrower shall make each Grant under a Grant Agreement with the
respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which
shall include the following:

7-
(@)

(b)

©

(d

The Beneficiary shall ensure that the grant funds are used exclusively for
the purposes specified for the Micro-project approved by the Regional
Grant Approval Committee.

The Beneficiary shall provide no less than 10% of the total cost of the
Micro-project, in cash or in kind.

The Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and
those of the Bank, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Grant, or obtain a
refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant then withdrawn, upon
the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Grant
Agreement; and (ii) require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Micro-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social
standards and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; (B) provide,
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) procure
the goods, works and services to be financed out of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (D) maintain policies
and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the progress of the
Micro-project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain a
financial management system and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to
the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures related to the Micro-project; and (2) at the Bank’s or
the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, and
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Borrower and the
Bank; (F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Micro-project,
its operation and any relevant records and documents; (G) prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing;
and (H) implement the site-specific EMP(s) related to the respective
Micro-Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
Safeguards

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of the EMPF and/or site-
specific EMP(s). The Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
EMPF and/or site-specific EMP(s), or any provision thereof, without the prior
approval of the Bank.

For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all
activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out any Micro-project comply
with environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure
that the selection of any Micro-project under Part A of the Project is done in
accordance with the provisions of the EMPF; (c) ensure the complete
implementation of the site-specific EMP(s) in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Micro-project; and
(d) maintain the PMU with competent environmental specialists in adequate
numbers and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Bank as
shall enable the PMU to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of
the site-specific EMP(s).

Prior to the commencement of works for each proposed site, the Borrower shall
cause the PMU to ensure that: (a) the related site-specific EMP(s) are prepared in
accordance with the EMPF; (b) the proposed design and site for said works
incorporate the provisions of site-specific EMP(s); (c) the provisions of said site-
specific EMP(s) are adequately included in the proposed contract for said works;
and (d) such works are carried out in accordance with the respective site-specific
EMP(s). The Bank shall conduct a post-review of the documentation related to
the design, contracts and site-specific EMP(s) for selected works and field visits
of such selected works as part of regular Project supervision.

Section II. Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester and shall be furnished to
the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such
report.
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45)
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III.  Procurement

General

Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services.  All goods, works and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph

2 below, goods, works and non-consulting services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

-10-
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services. The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods, works and non-consulting services for
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:

 

Procurement Method

 

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional
provisions:

(i)

(i)

(iif)

(iv)

v)

(vi)

(vii)
(viii)

(ix)

(x)

there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of
bidder;

entities in which the State or a State official owns a
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate
in tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown
to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under
commercial law;

no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the
origin of products or labor;

joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for
their obligations;

no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the
purchase of bidding documents. The only charge shall be
equivalent to the cost of producing (copying) the bidding
documents;

in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the
available budget;

rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the
Bank;

works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions;

prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any
modification in the contract scope and conditions during
implementation; and

standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be
used.

 

(b) Shopping

 

 

11-

 
Procurement Method

(c) Direct Contracting

(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.19 of the Procurement Guidelines for

Community Participation in Procurement for goods, works and non-
consulting services under Part A of the Project

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
procurement of consultants’ services for those contracts which are specified in
the Procurement Plan:

Procurement Method
(a) Selection Under a Fixed Budget
(b) Least-cost Selection
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

(d) Single Source Selection

(e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.6 of the Consultant
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants

 

 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the

Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Bank.

_12-
Section IV.

A.

1.

General

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

 

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.

Category

(1) Goods, works, non-
consulting services, and
consultants’ services,
Training, and Operating
Costs for the Project

(2) Grants

 
 

(3) Front-end Fee

]

 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in USD)

18,800,000

31,075,000

125,000

  
  

  

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(Net of VAT)

100%

    
 

  

Amount payable
pursuant to Section 2.03
of this Agreement in
accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the General

 

 

(4) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
premium

TOTAL AMOUNT

 

.

 

 

Conditions
0 Amount due pursuant to Al

1

Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

]

 

 

-13-
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

The Closing Date is September 30, 2018.

_14-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Installment Share™). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

 

 

 

     

 

 

Installment Share
Principal Payment Date (Expressed as a Percentage)
3.09%
3.17%
3.25%
333%
3.41%
3.50%
October 1, 2021 3.58%
April 1, 2022 3.67%
October 1, 2022 3.77%
April 1, 2023 3.86%
October 1, 2023 3.96%
April 1, 2024 4.05%
QOctober 1, 2024 4.16%
April 1,2025
October 1, 2025 4.37%
April 1, 2026 4.48%
October 1, 2026 4.59%
April 1, 2027 4.70%

  

October 1, 2027
April 1, 2028
October 1, 2028

 
 

October 1, 2029
| April 1, 2030

 

  

April 1, 2029

  
   
  

5.06%

   

 

 

-15-
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph |
of this Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by muitiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

-16-
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.

-17-
APPENDIX
Definitions

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

“Beneficiary” means a recipient of a grant under Part A of the Project, meeting
the criteria referred to in paragraph 1 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Eligible Social Charges” means the contribution of the PMU to social charges
assessed by the Borrower on the employment contracts with the PMU and ROOs.

“EMPF” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Plan Framework,
dated March 4, 2014, satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the procedures for: (a)
screening Micro-projects based on their expected impacts on the natural and
social environment; (b) evaluating their risks; (c) defining a need for
environmental assessment as part of the procedure for preparing EMP(s); (d)
disclosure; and (e) management, related to the selection and implementation of
the Micro-projects under the Project.

“EMP(s)” means the site specific environmental management plan(s), acceptable
to the Bank prepared or to be prepared by the Borrower during the Project
implementation in accordance with the EMPF and approved by the Bank,
describing environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures under
the Project.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012.

“Grant(s)” means financing of Micro-projects under Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Operational Manual.

“Micro-project” means a specific development project or activity to be carried

out by the Beneficiary, utilizing the proceeds of a grant under Part A of the
Project.

18-
16.

17.

20.

“Micro-project Committees” means the committees established in rural villages,
assisting the villages to identify their priorities in formulating proposals for
grants under Part A of the Project, consisting of approximately five to eleven
voluntary members elected by the people in rural village(s).

“Operating Costs” means operating costs incurred by the PMU and ROOs on
account of Project implementation for communications, utilities, office supplies
and maintenance, fuel and vehicle operation and its maintenance, salaries of
support staff, excluding those who are civil servants, Eligible Social Charges and
other reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project
implementation, management and monitoring, all based on the annual budgets
acceptable to the Bank.

“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, dated
November 18, 2013, setting forth the policies and guidelines, as well as
comprehensive operating procedures for the Project, including selection criteria
and procedures for Part A of the Project and the functioning of the PMU, as the
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower.

“Qriginal Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for a Second Rural
Investment Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated October 19, 2012,
as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 8189-AZ).

“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.

“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established pursuant to Order No.
270 dated August 11, 2004, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
dated April 16, 2014 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

“RO0s” means the Regional Operational Offices of the PMU.
“Regional Grant Approval Committees” mean the committees which review the
processing of all registered proposals and approve appraised proposals for the

respective region under Part A of the Project, consisting of representatives from
local government, local representatives of central government and civil society.

-19-
21.

22.

23.

“SAAC” means the State Agency for Agricultural Credits under the Borrower’s
Ministry of Agriculture, in charge of overseeing international rural development
projects.

“Training” means expenditures incurred for the training activities, including costs
of workshops, travel and per diem of trainees, all based on the annual budgets
acceptable to the Bank.

“Working Group” means the committee established by the State Agency
Agricultural Credits of the Borrower, pursuant to Order No. 271 dated August
11, 2004, as amended to date, and shall include representatives from the central
government, parliament and civil society, providing guidance on operational
procedures under the Project.

20-
