Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

CREDIT NUMBER 5925 BF

Financing Agreement

(Second Regional Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness
Development Policy Financing)

between
BURKINA FASO
and .

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

Dated Mecesnen. LS ,2016

 

 
 

 

CREDIT NUMBER 5925-BF

FINANCING AGREEMENT

Detenben L

AGREEMENT dated 2016, entered into between BURKINA

 

FASO (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association™) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Joint Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, infer alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient and the Partner
{Republic of Céte d’Ivoire} have already taken under the Joint Program: and which are
described in Section [ of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s and the
Partner’s respective maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework in their
respective countries. The Recipient and the Association thercfore hereby agree as follows:

101,

1.02.

1.03.

2.01.

~
o
©

2.03.

2.04.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

‘The General Conditiorss (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the mcanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agrecment.

The Recipient acknowledges and agrees that this Financing is being provided as
part of a regional Joint Program to be implemented in coordination with
complementary financing from the Association to the Partner under the Joint Letter
of Development Policy.

ARTICLE II ~— FINANCING

The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a ctedit in the amount of forty-five million
seven hundred thousand Euro (EUR 45,700,000) (variously, “Credit” and
“Financing™).

The Recipicnt may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Joint
Program in accordance with Section 11 of Schedule | to this Agreement.

The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.

The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to the greater of: (a) the sum of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
2.05.
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

3.01.

4.01.

_2-

1%) per annum plus the Basis Adjustment to the Service Charge; and (b} three-
fourths of one percent {3/4 of %) per annum.

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in cach year.

The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Payment Currency is Euro.

Without liitation upon the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Recipient shall
promptly furnish to the Asseciation such information relating to the provisions of
this Article Il as the Association may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE ITf — JOINT PROGRAM

The Recipient declares its commitment to the Joint Program and the
implementation of its part of the Joint Program. To this end, and further to Section
4.07 of the General Conditions (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Section 11 of the Appendix to this Agreemont and relating to Project Monitoring
and Evaluation):

(a) the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroccanomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out its part of the Joint
Program;

(b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved
in carrying out its part of the Joint Program, in such detzil as the

. Association shall reasonably request; and

(c) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Joint Program or any action taken undet the Joint Program including
any action specified in Section I of Schedule  to this Agresment.

ARTICLE IY — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
The Additional Events of Suspension cousist of the following:

(a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Joint
Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out; and/or
5.01.

5.02,

-3-

® the Association has suspended in whole or in part the right of the Partner
to make withdrawals under the Partner Financing Agreement.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(@) the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by both the
Recipient and the Partner in carrying out the Joint Program and with the
adequacy of the Recipient’s and Partner’s respective macrocconomic
policy frameworks; and

®) the Partner Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Partner to
make withdrawals under it, other than effectivencss of this Agrecment,
have been fulfitled.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.

For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement,
6.02.

6.03.

-4-

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for economy,
finance and development.

The Recipient’s Address is:

Minister of Economy, Finance and Development
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Development
03 BP 7050

Ouagadougou 03

Burkina Faso

Facsimile:

226-25-31-27-15

The Association’s Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Facsimile:

1-202-477-63%1
_5.

AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above
written.

BURKINA FASO

 

Authorized Representative

Name: hg_(\.\éulg_\_;_%_ggﬂ_\)q_ (OL&‘\\_)Q&é ':‘)\'} \:\
Title: X/_\.Lﬂ‘m_n%\:_m_m:n'\gs  Fiaoanas and,

Develo ‘?\«E&w\

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

By

Authorized Representative

Name: ( ;3' W ﬁ -E & a n\e_
Title: f .,,,, niﬂa_mm“ﬁmg&ﬁmwm ;;‘ao
Scetion 1.

A

-6-

SCHEDULE 1

Joint Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Actions Under the Joint Program

Actions Taken Under the Join¢ Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Jaint Program include the following:

Adoption by the Recipient of regulations (decrees and/or ministecial
orders) strengthening the training system for road transport operators.

For purposes of applying WAEMU Regulation 14, and pursuant to the
September 23 Declaration:

(a) Adoption by the Recipient of measures for the acquisition and
refurbishment of truck weighing equipment; and

(®) Notification of increased sanctions for noncompliant operators.

For increasing efficiency of road transport operations, mcludmg relations
between trucking companies and shippers:

(a) Intraduction by the Recipient of a virtual freight exchange that
makes available information on incoming freight;

(b) Mutual recognition of inter-State consignment notes by the
Recipient and the Partner; and

©) Signature by the Recipient and the Partner of a revised bilateral
road transport agreement (profocole d'accord) dated May 12,
2016.

For increasing efficiency of truck fleets:

(a) Adoption by the Recipient of measures to support fleet renewal
for compliant road transporters through provisions to lower the
cost of vehicles (notably tax and customs duty exemptions); and

(b) Strengthening by the Recipient of the technical inspection of
vehicles through the issuance of regulations, procedures or
strategies.

Development and launch by the Recipient of the clectronic-based trade
single window system.
.7

6. Strengthening by the Recipient’s customs administration of the risk
management systent through: (i) introduction of automated selectivity for
customs controls; and (ii) modemization of post-clearance audits
procedures.

7. Improvement of the Recipient’s customs administration by strengthening:
(i) its intenal procedures for customs controls; and (if) the oversight of
licensed custons brokers.

8. Signing ofan agreement (protocole d’accord) dated April 28, 2016 by the
Recipient’s and the Partner’s customs administrations on a pilot
interconnection system allowing a single transit declaration at the point of
departure for transit between the two countries,

Section I Availability of Financing I’

A,

Geaceral. The Recipicnt may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipicnt.

Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a Single
Withdrawal Tranche, from which the Recipicnt may make withdrawals of the
Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in
the table below: ’

Amouant of the Financing Allocated
Allocations (expressed in Euro)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 45,700,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 45,700,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

 

No withdrawal shall bc made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Association is satisfied with: (a) the Joint Program being carried out by the
Recipient and the Partner; and (b) the adequacy of the Recipient’s and the Partner’s
respective macroeconomic policy framewarks.
.8-

Depasits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

1. all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 10
the Association; and

2. the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Association.

Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make 2
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
cancelled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.
.9.

SCHEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Credit

repayable
Date Payment Due {expressed 2s a percentage)*

On each April 15 and October 15, commencing 1.56250%
April 15,2023 to and including October 15, 2054

 

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the
General Conditions.
-0 -

APPENDIX

Section I Definitions

“Basis Adjustment to the Service Charge” means the Association’s standard basis
adjustment to the Service Charge for credits in the currency of denomination of the
Credit, in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, on the datc on which the
Credit is approved by the Executive Directors of the Association, and expressed
either as a positive or negative percentage per anoum,

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
loan;

b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nalions in Statistical Papers, Serics M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:

Group
112 Alcoholic beverages

[ Group |
T
121 Tabacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse

  
  
 
   
    
   
 
           
 

   

Sub-group

  
  
  
 
  

Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
not containing tobacco substitutes;

Radioactive and associated materials
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or warked

]
718.7 Nugclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
[ 72843 |

122

718
irradiated, for nuclear reactors

71

72843

897 857.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths” wares (including set
gems

T B
ores and concentrates
o1l -

(©) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the taws of the Recipient or international
agrecments to which the Recipient is a party;

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Sccurity Council taken under Chapter VIl of the Charter of the United

Nations; and

[G] with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other vecipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
Recipient {or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
occur.

“General Conditions” mcans the “[nternational Devefopment Assaciation General
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated Juty 31, 2010, with the modifications set
forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“Joint Letter of Development Poficy” means the letter dated November 7, 2016,
from the Recipient together with the Partaer to the Association, in joint support of
the Joint Program under their respective financing agreements with the
Association, declaring the Recipicnt’s and the Partner’s shared commitment to the
execution of the Joint Program, and jointly requesting assistance from the
Association in support of the Joint Program during its execution.

“Joint Program™ means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the Joint Letter of Development Policy.

“Partner™ means Cote d’lvoire, the other recipient of financing from the
Association for the Joint Program.

“Partner Financing Agreement™ means the financing agreement entered into by the
Partner with the Association for actions, objectives and policies related to the Joint
Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and inctuding all
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.
S12-

“September 23 Declaration” means the Déclaration de la Réunion des Ministres
en Charge des Infrastructures et du Transport Routier des Etats Membres de
I'UEMOA et de la Guinde pour !'Evaluation de la Mise en Application du
Réglement No  14/2005/CM/UEMOA du 16 décembre 2005 Relatif &
I'Harmonisation des Normes et des Procédures du Controle du Gabarit, du Poids,
ef de la Charge & I'Essieu des Véhicules Lourds dans les Etats Membres de
I"UEMOA made on September 23, 2016 in Cotonou, Benin.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section 11 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

“WAEMU” means the West Africen Economic and Monetary Union.

“WAEMU Regulation 14> means the Réglement No 14/2005/CM/UEMOA du 16
décembre 2005 Relatif a I'Harmonisation des Normes et des Procédures du
Contréle du Gabarit, du Poids, et de la Charge & I'Essieu des Véhicules Lourds
dans les Etats Membres de I'UEMOA.

Section H. Madifications to the General Conditions

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Asticle TI are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 4.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article 1V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above)
is modified to read as follows:
- 13-

“Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

{c} The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bllls receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
until two years after the Closing Date, The Recipient shall enable the Association’s
representatives to examine such records.”

Parageaph (c) of Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above}
is modified to read as follows:

“Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

©) The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of its part of the Joint Program, the performance by the Recipient and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
accomplishument of the purposes of the Financing.”

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as foilows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(@) The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modificd to read as
follows:

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
support of the Joint Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.”

(b) The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

(3] The term “Project” is modified to read “Joint Pragram and its definition
is modified to read as follows:

“Joint Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.” All references to
“Praject” throughout these General Conditions are decmed to be
references to “Joint Program.”
