CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3388 CM

(Food Security Project)

REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 16, 1991

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3388 CM

AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

(B)

Part B (a) of the Project will be carried out by Unite de Traitements 
Agricoles par Voie Aerienne (UTAVA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to UTAVA part of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement;

(C)

Part D of the Project will be carried out by Credit Foncier du Cameroun 

(CFC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to CFC part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement;

(D)

by agreement dated August 3, 1990 (the Japanese Grant Agreement), the 
Bank acting as Administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Japan has 
agreed to extend to the Borrower a
grant (the Japanese Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of six hundred seven 
million and five hundred thousand yen (Y607,500,000) to assist in the preparation of 
Parts A and C of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Japanese Grant Agreement;

(E)

the Bank acting in its own capacity and as Administrator of grant funds 

provided by the Government of Japan intends, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Japanese Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures for Part A of 
the Project before disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this 
Agreement are made; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the UTAVA Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
UTAVA and in the CFC Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CFC;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

withdrawals 
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s 
 

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of 

Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

"MINAGRI" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for agriculture;

"MINSANTE" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for public health;

"MINDIC" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for industrial and 

"MINAT" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for territorial 

commercial development;

(d)
administration;

 

 

 

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(e)

"UTAVA" means Unite de Traitements Agricoles par Voie Aerienne, an 

Etablissement public caractere industriel et commercial of the Borrower, governed by 
the provisions of Decree No. 85-1201 of August 30, 1985, modified by Decree No. 
88-1178 of September 8, 1988;

(f)

"CFC" means Credit Foncier du Cameroun, an Etablissement public caractere 
commercial of the Borrower, governed by the provisions of Decree No. 77-140 of May 13, 
1977, modified by Decree No. 236 of June 17, 1981;

(g)

"UTAVA Project Agreement" means the agreement between  the Bank and Unite 

de Traitements Agricoles par Voie Aerienne (UTAVA) of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 

supplemental to the UTAVA Project Agreement;

(h)

"UTAVA Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 

the Borrower and Unite de Traitements Agricoles par Voie Aerienne (UTAVA) pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the UTAVA Grant Agreement;

(i)

"CFC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Credit 
Foncier du Cameroun (CFC) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CFC 
Project Agreement;

(j)

"CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and Credit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC) pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

(k)

"Small-scale Project A" means a productive investment small-scale project 

including, inter alia, small-scale projects related to cash-generating commercial 
activities such as retailing;

(l)

"Small-scale Project B" means a productive social investment small-scale 

project including, inter alia, small-scale projects related to community needs for 
food, livestock and
agricultural production and processing;

(m)

"Small-scale Project C" means an infrastructure investment small-scale 
project including construction or rehabilitation small-scale projects related, inter 
alia, to water supply, irrigation and drainage, and storage facilities;

(n)

"Small-scale Projects" means collectively Small-scale Projects A, 

Small-scale Projects B and Small-scale Projects C; and "Small-scale Project" means any 
one of such Small-scale Projects to be carried out under Part A (a) of the Project in 
accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in Section C of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;

(o)

"Beneficiaries" means rural community groups deriving benefits from 

Small-scale Projects, directly or indirectly, including those individuals or private 
small-scale enterprises operating in the economic sector;

(p)

"Sponsoring Agency" means any of the regional development governmental 

agencies or of the non-governmental entities which proposes to assist Beneficiaries in 
carrying out a Small-scale Project;

(q)

"FIMAC Scheme" means the scheme initiated by MINAGRI for the Financement 

d’investissements de micro-realisations agricoles et communautaires;

(r)

"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CFC out of the 

proceeds of the Loan to a rural or urban commune for a Sub-project in accordance with 
the policies and procedures set forth in the Schedule to the CFC Project Agreement;

(s)

"Sub-project" means a municipal priority income-generating investment 
project for the construction/renovation of market infrastructure to be carried out 
under Part D (a) of the Project;

(t)

"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

this Agreement; and

(u)

"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Cooperation Financiere en 

Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower.

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:

(i)

for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 

in respect of 
required for the Project described in 
Agreement (except Parts A (a) and D (a) thereof) and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and

the reasonable cost of goods and services 

Schedule 2 to this 

(ii)

for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for 

disbursements required 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
for Part D (a) of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and 

to be made): (A) under Sub-loans in 

services required 

the Schedule to the CFC Project Agreement; and (B) under Small-scale 

Projects in 
required for Part A (a) of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and Section C of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.

respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 

Project and to be financed out of the 

provisions of 

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

CFA Francs, on behalf of the Borrower and CFC, two special deposit accounts in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

immediately preceding 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
signed. 

each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

Period in which this Agreement is 

(ii)

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

determined by the Bank 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 

and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 

drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

the Bank has 

than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

a calendar year.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 

outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 

withdrawn and 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
 

calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the 
1%). On each of the dates 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 

shall notify the 
respect of such Quarter."

April 1, July 1 
 

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 

15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:

(i)

shall carry out Parts A, B (b) and C of the Project through 

MINAGRI and Part E of 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such 

the Project through MINSANTE, with due 

with appropriate 

Parts of the Project; and

(ii)

without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 

obligations under the Loan 
UTAVA and CFC to perform all their respective 
forth in the UTAVA Project Agreement and the CFC Project Agreement; 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 

Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
obligations set 

enable UTAVA 
permit to be taken any 
with such performance.

facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 

and CFC to perform such obligations; and shall not take or 

action which would prevent or interfere 

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, B (b), C and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower shall make available to UTAVA on a grant basis the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to Categories (8) and (9) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a grant agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and UTAVA, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank.

(d)

The Borrower shall: (i) make available to CFC, on a grant basis, the 

proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (11) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) relend to CFC the proceeds of the Loan 

allocated to Category (10) of said table, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CFC, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank.

(e)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the UTAVA Grant Agreement 
and the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the UTAVA Grant Agreement, the CFC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

(b)

Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section 

and subject to the provisions of said paragraph, the Borrower shall employ a 
specialized non-governmental organization, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the 
technical coordination of Part E of the Project.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B(a) and 
D of the Project shall be carried out by UTAVA and CFC, respectively, pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the UTAVA Project Agreement and of the CFC Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section, 
for the FIMAC Scheme under Part 
provincial and departmental levels, for each 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and

A of the Project at the central, 

including those for the Special Accounts and those 

fiscal year audited, 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six months 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

after the end of each such year, the report of 

scope and in such detail as the 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account for the Project were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:

(a) of this 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

Section, records and accounts reflecting such 

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 

(ii)
audit report for 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
of the Special  Accounts 

receipts and 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 

(iv)
audit referred to 
of such audit contains a 
whether the statements of expenditure 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 

in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 

submitted during such 

withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

UTAVA or CFC shall have failed to perform any of their respective 

obligations under the UTAVA Project Agreement or the CFC Project Agreement.

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that UTAVA or CFC will be able to perform their respective obligations under the UTAVA 
Project Agreement or the CFC Project Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower’s Decrees No. 85-1201 of August 30, 1985, No. 88-1178 of 

September 8, 1988, No.77-140 of May 13, 1977 and No. 236 of June 17, 1981, 
respectively, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of UTAVA or CFC to perform any of their 
obligations under the UTAVA Project Agreement or the CFC Project Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of UTAVA or CFC or for the 
suspension of their operations.

(e)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

 

(A)

the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 

to the Borrower for the financing of the 

cancelled or terminated in 

or

loan or grant made 
Project shall have been suspended, 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof; 
 

agreed maturity 
 

thereof.

(B)

any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

establishes to 
suspension, cancellation, termination 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 

the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 

or prematuring is not 

available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 

with the obligations of the Borrower under this 

consistent 
Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

(b)

any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur; and

(c)

the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

the requirement of prior authorization for exports of fisheries and 

livestock products has been removed and the registration of exporters of food products 
with MINDIC has been simplified and decentralized in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; 

(b)

the UTAVA Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 

UTAVA;

(c)
Borrower and CFC;

the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 

(d)

the following FIMAC staff referred to in Section B.1 of Schedule 5 to 

this Agreement have been appointed: the FIMAC Project Director, the Assistant Project 
Director, the administrative and financial controller, the field staff supervisor and 
the two MINAGRI training coordinators;

(e)

the DEAPA staff of the coordinating unit referred to in Section B.3 of 

Schedule 5 to this Agreement has been appointed; and

(f)

the MINSANTE coordinator referred to in Section B.5 of Schedule 5 to this 

Agreement has been appointed and the specialized non-governmental organization 
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement has been employed.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the UTAVA Project Agreement and the CFC Project Agreement have been 

duly authorized or ratified by UTAVA and CFC, respectively, and are legally binding 
upon UTAVA and CFC in accordance with their terms;

(b)

that the UTAVA Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 

the Borrower and UTAVA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and UTAVA in 
accordance with its terms; and

(c)

that the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 

ratified by the Borrower and CFC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CFC in 
accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning and regional 

development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Planning and
Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon

Telex:

8203 KN

Telex:

8858 KN

Cable address:

MINPAT

With copy to:

Cable address:

CAA
Yaounde

For the Bank:

Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
B. P. 7167
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

 

 

 

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA)
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

By /s/ Paul Pondi

Authorized Representative

Regional Vice President
Africa

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the

                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

I.  MINAGRI Expenditures
    (Parts A and B(b)
    of the Project)

(1) Financing of Small-        8,500,000        100%, up to 75%
    scale Projects                              of the estimated
                                                total costs of
                                                each Small-scale
                                                Project

(2) Vehicles,                    900,000        100% of foreign
    equipment and                               expenditures and
    materials                                   85% of local
                                                expenditures

(3) Consultants’               2,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

(4) Operating                  1,000,000        100%
    costs

II. MINSANTE Expenditures
    (Part E of the Project)

(5) Vehicles and                 400,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures

(6) Consultants’                 600,000        100%
    services and
    training

(7) Operating costs              600,000        100%

III. UTAVA Expenditures
     (Part B(a) of the Project)

(8) Vehicles and               2,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures

(9) Training                     200,000        100%

IV. CFC Expenditures
    (Part D of the Project)

(10) Sub-loans                 4,100,000        100%, up to 70%
                                                of the estimated
                                                total costs of
                                                each Sub-project

(11) Consultants’                500,000        100%
     services and
     training

V.  Other Expenditures

(12) Unallocated               2,200,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                23,000,000
                              ==========

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which the goods 
and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and

(c)

the term "operating costs" means mission travel and subsistence 

allowances for local and expatriate staff involved in the Project, operation and 
maintenance of Project vehicles and equipment, and office supplies.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 

(b)

in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (1) after 

October 1 of each year, unless the Bank shall have approved the detailed work programs 
and budgets for Part A of the Project referred to in Section A of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and shall be satisfied with the progress of activities undertaken during the 
previous twelve-month period between April 1 and March 31.

3.
made:

Agreement; and

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to create employment opportunities and 

raise the purchasing power of rural groups, especially women, and to enhance their 
access to food; (b) to reduce
the impact of pest attacks on food production; (c) to increase efficiency in marketing 
and storage of foodstuffs; and (d) to improve feeding and dietary practices of high 
risk groups (pregnant and lactating women and children under five).

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:
 

Rural Community Development

(a)

Carrying out under the FIMAC Scheme of a program of Small-scale Projects 

A, Small-scale Projects B and Small-scale Projects C, in rural areas, including the 
construction of about 200 village storage facilities in the Extreme North Province, 
and administration of said program; and (b) carrying out of a training program 
consisting of workshops for operation and maintenance of Small-scale Projects by 
Beneficiaries and management training for community group leaders.

Part B:
 

Locust Control Program

Carrying out of: (a) a locust control program in the North and Extreme North 

Provinces, over a three-year period, through aerial crop protection and ground 
treatment; and (b) a study to determine the cost/effectiveness of the ground crop 
protection services and the possibility of farmer participation in crop protection in 
the North and Extreme North Provinces.

Part C:
 

Information System

Establishment, over a three-year period, of an early warning and market 

information system to collect and diffuse information on the food supply and demand 
situation in the Borrower’s territory and
analyze the findings thereof for decision makers.

Part D:
 

Market Infrastructure

(a)

Carrying out of a program of Sub-projects and financing of Sub-loans 

therefor to rural and urban communes for the construction/renovation of market 
infrastructure; and (b) organization of training seminars related to the contents of 
the above program, including the provision of consultants’ services.

Part E:
 

Nutrition Education

Development, implementation and evaluation of a pilot nutrition education 

program in high risk zones of four Provinces, over a three-year period, including 
research in maternal and infant dietary practices and training of field staff to 
undertake said research, and development and testing of educational materials for 
delivering nutrition messages through an adaptive communication strategy, all in order 
to provide a basis for the development of a national nutrition education program.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

*   *   *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due
 
March 15, 1997                                  420,000
September 15, 1997                              435,000
March 15, 1998                                  450,000
September 15, 1998                              470,000
March 15, 1999                                  490,000
September 15, 1999                              505,000
March 15, 2000                                  525,000
September 15, 2000                              545,000
March 15, 2001                                  570,000
September 15, 2001                              590,000
March 15, 2002                                  615,000
September 15, 2002                              635,000
March 15, 2003                                  660,000
September 15, 2003                              685,000
March 15, 2004                                  715,000
September 15, 2004                              740,000
March 15, 2005                                  770,000
September 15, 2005                              800,000
March 15, 2006                                  830,000
September 15, 2006                              860,000
March 15, 2007                                  895,000
September 15, 2007                              930,000
March 15, 2008                                  965,000
September 15, 2008                            1,005,000
March 15, 2009                                1,040,000
September 15, 2009                            1,080,000
March 15, 2010                                1,125,000
September 15, 2010                            1,170,000
March 15, 2011                                1,215,000
September 15, 2011                            1,265,000
_____________________________

*
respective dates of 
 

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 

withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Procurement of Goods and Works

International Competitive Bidding

Section I.
 
Part A:
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles shall be bulked annually.

2.
 
Part B:
 

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 

A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Other Procurement Procedures

Part C:
 
1.
Items or groups of items for equipment (other than vehicles) estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $1,200,000, and goods and works
for Sub-projects estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,200,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that:

(i)

all bids shall be opened in public and bidders’ representatives 

shall be allowed to 
 

communicated to all 
 

be present;

bidders; and

(ii)

criteria for evaluating bids shall be set out clearly and 

(iii) foreign companies shall not be required to be incorporated in 

participate in the bidding.

Cameroon in order to 
 
2.
Items or groups of items for goods for Small-scale Projects, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $13,600,000, and goods and works for Sub-projects estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers and contractors eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:
 
1.
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a)

With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 

or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract, 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.

2.
to the Guidelines.

The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 

Section II.
 

Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower, UTAVA and CFC in carrying outthe Project, the 

Borrower shall employ and cause UTAVA and CFC to employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

General

For the purposes of the execution of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, the 

Section A:
 
1.
Borrower shall, through MINAGRI, beginning November 30, 1991 and thereafter not later 
than June 30 of each year, furnish
to the Bank, for its review and approval, in respect of the forthcoming year, detailed 
work programs and budgets, including training programs, where applicable. In addition, 
together with the detailed work programs and budgets for Part A of the Project, the 

Borrower shall, through MINAGRI, furnish to the Bank an evaluation report of 
activities undertaken during the previous twelve-month period between April 1 and 
March 31, including the annual audit report of FIMAC records and accounts at the 
central, provincial and departmental levels referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement.

The FIMAC Scheme shall be introduced on a gradual basis over the entire 
2.
Borrower’s territory. Small-scale Projects financed out of the Loan proceeds shall be 
carried out in rural areas where there
is no other financing for this purpose.

Project Management

Section B:
 
1.
 

Part A of the Project (Rural Community Development)

(a)

At the national level, MINAGRI’s Direction des Projets Agricoles (DPA) 

shall have the overall responsibility for the supervision and monitoring of the 
implementation of Part A of the Project and the coordination of activities of the 
Borrower’s relevant ministries and Sponsoring Agencies under the FIMAC Scheme. The 
following qualified and experienced staff shall be appointed and thereafter 
maintained: (i) a FIMAC Project Director; (ii) an agro-economist acting as Assistant 
Project Director, supported by a consultant specialized in micro-projects and employed 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iii) 
an administrative and financial controller employed in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iv) a field staff supervisor; and (v) 
two training coordinators from MINAGRI. Said staff shall be in charge of the 
preparation of methods and procedures applicable for Small-scale Project 
identification, appraisal, approval and evaluation and for the training program, and 
shall also provide technical support to
the provincial technical units referred in the paragraph hereunder.

(b)

At the level of each Province, a commission chaired by the Governor and 
including representatives from the Borrower’s relevant ministries, of the Sponsoring 
Agencies and of financial
intermediaries shall be responsible for the review and approval of the Small-scale 
Sub-projects. It shall be assisted by a provincial technical unit staffed at least 
with two agents from MINAGRI; said
unit shall help the Beneficiaries in the preparation and execution of the Small-scale 
Projects and in the supervision of the training program.

(c)

At the level of each department, an agent from MINAGRI shall act as 

coordinator of Part A of the Project.

(d)

Notwithstanding the generality of the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 

Agreement, records and accounts for the FIMAC Scheme at the central, provincial and 
departmental levels shall be
reviewed every six months by an independent accountant (Commissaire aux comptes) 
acceptable to the Bank.

Part B of the Project (Locust Control Program)

MINAGRI shall cooperate with UTAVA in the carrying out of Part B (a) of the 

Part C of the Project (Information System)

MINAGRI’s Direction des Enquetes Agro-Economiques et de la Planification 
Agricole (DEAPA) shall have the overall responsibility for the implementation of Part 
C of the Project through a coordinating unit staffed with an agro-economist, a 
statistician and two research assistants, all experienced and qualified.

Part D of the Project (Market Infrastructure)

MINAT shall cooperate with CFC in the appraisal of the Sub-projects and in the 

organization of the seminars referred to in Part D (b) of the Project.

5.

Part E of the Project (Nutrition Education)

Project.

2.
 

3.
 

4.
 

For the purposes of the execution of Part E of the Project, MINSANTE shall 
establish a technical coordinating team led by a qualified and experienced coordinator 
from MINSANTE and including representatives from the Borrower’s relevant ministries 
and of the specialized non-governmental organization referred to in Section 3.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.

Section C:
 
1.
 

Policies and Procedures for Part A of the Project

Small-scale Project Identification and Appraisal

(a)

Proposals for Small-scale Projects may be initiated or sponsored by 

governmental or non-governmental entities, communities and other groups. Proposals 
shall identify the type of Small-scale Project, describe the works, goods or services 
to be carried out and identify the Sponsoring Agency and the Beneficiaries.

(b)

MINAGRI coordinators shall process the proposals for Small-scale Projects 

received in accordance with the operational procedures set forth by DPA at the 
national level, on a basis and in
a manner acceptable to the Bank.

(c)
following:

Appraisal criteria for all Small-scale Projects shall include the 

proposed Beneficiaries shall be constituted as a rural group of 

(i)
not more than 20 
administrative authorities and empowered 
representatives to carry out the obligations specified in 
Section C.4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Groups located in or close to urban 

members, recognized by traditional and/or 

through its authorized 

areas shall not be eligible;

(ii)

Small-scale Projects B and C shall contribute mainly to 

Beneficiaries’ food 
Projects A, carried out on a pilot basis, shall 
mainly to increase the Beneficiaries’ income;

self-sufficiency and Small-scale 

contribute 

years and 
possible;

(iii) Small-scale Projects shall be expected to be completed within two 
labor-intensive methods shall be used to the extent 

(iv)

Small-scale Projects shall be technically feasible and financially 

viable, and 
management capacity of the 
consideration shall be given to the technical and 
capability of the Sponsoring Agencies; an economic rate of return shall 
be calculated in accordance with methods acceptable to the Bank; and only 

shall aim at improving the financial and technical 

Beneficiaries; appropriate 

managerial 

Small-scale Projects A with an economic rate of return of at least 

eligible.

Terms and Conditions of Small-scale Projects

(a)

Small-scale Projects shall be financed on the following terms and 

15% shall be 
 
2.
 

conditions:

Project B shall not 
period of not more than four years.

(i)

Financing, out of the proceeds of the Loan, of a Small-scale 

exceed CFAF 500,000, with a repayment 

Project C shall not 
period of not more than ten years.

(ii)

Financing, out of the proceeds of the Loan, of a Small-scale 

exceed CFAF 6,000,000, with a repayment 

(iii) Financing, out of the proceeds of the Loan, of a Small-scale 

Project A shall not 
rate of interest of not less than 15% on the 
outstanding and a repayment period of not more than four 
 

exceed CFAF 4,000,000, with an annual 

amount withdrawn and 

years.

(iv)

Contributions in cash from Beneficiaries shall represent at least 

25% of the 
least 20% of the financing of 
contributions shall be utilized to finance: (A) up to 
financing of Small-scale Projects, for payment of tools, materials and 

financing of Small-scale Projects A and B and at 
Small-scale Projects C. Said 

10% of the 

equipment obtained from suppliers; (B) up to 10% of the financing of Small-scale 

Projects C, as a 
the capital reconstitution account 
paragraph (d) hereafter; and (C) up to 5% of the financing of 

mentioned in 

Projects A and B and 5% of the financing of Small-scale 

mobilization advance to be deposited in 

Small-scale Projects, for cost operation and maintenance of Small-scale 

Projects.

 

(b)

(c)

An appropriate contribution in kind from Beneficiaries shall be required.

Beneficiaries may benefit from financial and technical training required 

for the execution of Small-scale Projects, up to a maximum of CFAF 80,000 per 
Small-scale Project, provided that they contribute an average of 50% of the training 
costs.

(d)

For each Small-scale Project, a capital reconstitution account shall be 

opened in a savings bank, into which repayments of financing shall be credited. 
Operations under said account shall 
require the signature of the departmental coordinator and of the Sponsoring Agency; 
funds deposited therein may be utilized for financing a subsequent Small-scale Project 
for the same Beneficiaries or others, but only when full repayment of financing shall 
be made.

Small-scale Project Approval

(a)

All Small-scale Projects shall be approved by the relevant Provincial 

Commission.

(b)

Requests for approval of Small-scale Projects shall be presented on or 

before December 31, 1997.

Small-scale Project Arrangements

(a)

The proposed Beneficiaries selected to carry out Small-scale Projects and 
their Sponsoring Agencies shall promptly enter into written arrangements with MINAGRI, 
through the departmental coordinator, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, pursuant to which MINAGRI shall, inter alia, obtain rights adequate to protect 
the interests of the Bank and MINAGRI, including the right of MINAGRI to:

(i)
Project with the 
diligence and efficiency and in 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain 
 

require the Beneficiaries to carry out and operate the Small-scale 

assistance of their Sponsoring Agency with due 

accordance with sound technical, 

adequate records;

(ii)

require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the 

proceeds of the 
account being taken also of other 
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods, 
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; 

Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, 

relevant factors such as 

availability 

provided, however, that goods shall be procured on the basis of price 

quotations 
the Guidelines in accordance 
Bank; and (B) such goods and services shall be 
the carrying out of the Small-scale Project;

obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 

with procedures satisfactory to the 

used exclusively in 

(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly, with representatives of the Bank 

and MINAGRI if the 
sites, works, plants and 
Project, the operation thereof, and any 
documents;

Bank and MINAGRI shall so request, such goods and the 
construction included in the Small-scale 
relevant records and 

3.
 

4.
 

(iv)

obtain all such information as the Bank or MINAGRI shall 
relating to the foregoing and to the 

reasonably request 
administration, operations and financial 
Small-scale Project, if appropriate, and to the benefits to be 
derived therefrom; and

condition of the 

(v)
the proceeds of 
perform their obligations under 
 

suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiaries to the use of 

the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiaries to 

their arrangements with MINAGRI.

(b)

MINAGRI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Small-scale Project 

in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and MINAGRI; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under these arrangements; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Accounts

For the purposes of this Schedule:

1.
 

 

(9); and

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means the following Categories set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:

(i)

in the case of MINAGRI, MINSANTE and UTAVA, Categories (1) through 

(ii)

in the case of CFC, Categories (10) and (11);

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) 

$1,500,000 in the case of MINAGRI, MINSANTE and UTAVA; and (ii) $500,000 in the case 
of CFC, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the corresponding 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the appropriate Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.

(i)
(b)
shall furnish to 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of each of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 

the Bank requests for deposits into the 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 

Schedule for the payment or 

Bank the documents and other evidence required 

requested. On 

amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 

documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 

eligible expenditures.

by said 
the Special Account for 
 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 

6.
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Bank into a Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 

Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

