CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3466 POL

(Health Services Development Project)

REPUBLIC OF POLAND

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated July 17, 1992

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3466 POL

AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 

of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

 

 

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 

withdrawals  under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
 

Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

"MOH" means the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare of the Borrower;

MOH by Decree No. 19/91 dated June 1, 1991;

"NPIU" means the National Project Implementation Unit, established within 

(c)

"Health Consortium" means any of the health consortia established by the 

voivodships and health institutions in the Regions of Ciechanow, Pomerania and 
Wielkopolski for the purpose of
decentralization and regional management and coordination of health activities and 
"Health Consortia" means, collectively, the three health consortia in such regions;

"CCOs" means the Consortia Coordination Offices, established within each 

(d)
Health Consortium;

this Agreement; and

(e)

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(f)

"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 

granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of the Bank agreed by the 
Borrower on April 10, 1992.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred thirty million 
dollars ($130,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Poland on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c)

Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereon be 
cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
pay interest accrued on the 

Period, calculated 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 

shall notify the 
of such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 

15 and December 15 in each year. 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 

needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out or cause to be carried out all in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants and Other Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section 
fiscal year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 
 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account or 
all records (contracts, orders, 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

payment out of the Special Accounts was made, 

invoices, bills, receipts and other 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

Section 4.02. During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall take all 

necessary measures to ensure that:

(a)

in its budget, any funds to be made available to the voivodships 

participating in the Health Consortia for the purposes of the Project, be treated as 
supplemental to the normal budget

allocation for any such voivodship; and

(b)

all voivodships and health institutions, participating in the Health 

Consortia, provide adequate funds to cover the operating cost of the Health Consortia.

ARTICLE V

Remedies

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the statutes of any of the Health Consortia shall have been amended, 

suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
execution of Part D of the Project, or any of its sub-components; and

(b)

the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Health Consortia, or 
for the suspension of the operation of any of the Health Consortia.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraph 5.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

the MOH has issued regulations, acceptable to the Bank, relating to (i) 

the recommended minimum data set for hospital patient admission/discharge information, 
(ii) accounting practices for health care institutions, and (iii) registration of 
drugs and standard format for drug prescriptions; and  

(b)

the Borrower has employed consultants to assist in the management of the 

Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Health and Social Welfare of the Borrower is 

designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
ul. Miodowa 15
Warsaw, 00-923
Republic of Poland

Telex:

4822813864 PL or
4822817441 PL

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA)
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF POLAND

By /s/ Jacek Tomorowicz

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz

Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment,               44,000,000         100% of foreign
    vehicles,                                   expenditures,
    furniture,                                  100% of local
    materials and                               expenditures
    software                                    ex-factory) and
                                                90% of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants’              43,800,000        100%
    services, studies
    and training

(3) (a)  Equipment for         2,300,000        100% of foreign
         Part D.2 in the                        expenditures,
         Region of                              and 100% of
         Ciechanow                              local expen-
                                                ditures (ex-
    (b)  Equipment for        10,100,000        factory) and
         Part D.2 in the                        90% of local
         Region of                              expenditures
         Pomerania                              for other items
                                                procured locally
    (c)  Equipment for        17,200,000
         Part D.2 in the
         Region of
         Wielkopolski

(4)  Refunding of Project      1,500,000        Amount due
     Preparation Advance                        pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of this Agreement

(5)  Unallocated              11,100,000
                              __________

         TOTAL               130,000,000
                             ===========

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of:

 

(a)

(b)

payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and

payments made, or to be made, for expenditures under Category (3) (a), 

(b) and (c), unless the Borrower has furnished the Bank regional health services 
strategic plans and investment
proposals, acceptable to the Bank, for each of the Regions of Ciechanow, Pomerania and 
Wielkopolski, respectively.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to support the first step in restructuring the 

health sector, to strengthen institutional capacity in policy making, planning, 
management and evaluation, to ensure sustainability of services and to improve 
effectiveness, efficiency and quality of service delivery in the Regions of Ciechanow, 
Pomerania and Wielkopolski.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:
 
1.

Health Promotion

Health Promotion Programs: Strengthening the capacity of the National Board of 

Health Promotion and regional health promotion units within the Consortia to design, 
coordinate, monitor and evaluate health promotion and prevention programs at national 
and regional levels through provision of: (a) fellowships in public health, health 
education, mass marketing and communications; (b) equipment and materials needed for 
the design, production, and dissemination of health promotion and health education 
materials; and (c) computer hardware and software.

Training of Health Educators: Strengthening of the capacity of the School of 

2.
Public Health at the University of Krakow, the National Institute of Hygiene, the 
Institution of Occupational
Medicine in Lodz and the National Institute of Cardiology in the design of health 
education curricula, training of health educators, health professionals and non-health 
professionals and in the design and editing of health education materials through 
provision of training and fellowships, upgrading of the facilities, equipment and 
other materials.

Occupational Health: Strengthening of the Institute of Occupational Medicine in 

3.
Lodz to design and implement occupational health policies through provision of study 
tours abroad and to
develop occupational health standards, workplace inspection guidelines and policies to 
enforce surveillance of workplace safety standards.

Primary Health Care

Primary Care Practices: Strengthening of the National Board for Primary Care to 

Part B:
 
1.
develop primary care training centers associated with existing medical academic 
institutions in Ciechanow (Warsaw), Pomerania and Wielkopolski, including development 
of curricula design, provision of intensive courses in the techniques of teaching 
family medicine to doctors, and upgrading of clinical facilities and provision of 
equipment, teaching and library materials needed therefor.

In-service Training: Strengthening of in-service training in primary care in 

2.
selected teaching hospitals, community clinics and training practices of teachers of 
family medicine through upgrading of training facilities, development of programs 
needed to strengthen in-service training of doctors, nurses and allied primary health 
care workers, provision of long- and short-term fellowships and computer hardware and 
software needed therefor.

Health Management

Hospital Admission/Discharge Information and Accounting: Standardization and 

Part C:
 
1.
computerization of data collection on patient admission and discharge, aggregation of 
data from local to national levels, analysis and interpretation of data, training in 
data coding and computerization and provision of materials and computer hardware and 
software; and introduction of national standards for accounting practices, drug 
registration and monitoring of pharmaceutical sales throughout the health sector and 
provision of equipment, computer hardware and software and training in the following 
three phases:

in selected 
Wielkopolski and one 
 

Ciechanow, 
 

(i)

piloting, testing and fine tuning of the new accounting practices 
health care institutions in Ciechanow, Pomerania and 

other pilot development site;

(ii)

introduction of the new system in most health institutions in 

Pomerania and Wielkopolski; and

(iii) introduction countrywide.

Pharmaceutical Monitoring and Quality Control: Creation of a nationwide standard 

 
2.
data set for reporting the utilization of prescription and non-prescription drugs and 
identification of
doctors, pharmacies and patients through development of a capacity to aggregate data 
of regional and national levels, analyze the information at the national level and 
provide a dynamic and
continuous feedback to policy makers, managers and health care providers and provision 
of fellowships, in-service training, equipment and materials.

Budgeting: Introduction of a more efficient and equitable basis for the 

3.
preparation of the yearly recurrent health budget for the voivodships and setting 
priorities for capital investments and provision of fellowships, in-service training, 
equipment and materials.

4.
Management Development: Establishment of centers for undergraduate and graduate 
education in health service management in relevant departments in the Universities of 
Warsaw, Krakow, Wroclaw
and Lodz and provision of fellowships, including post-graduate degree fellowships 
abroad, in-service training, equipment, library resources and materials.

Health Financing: Feasibility studies: (i) on the introduction of contributory 

5.
health insurance, (ii) health cost recovery, (iii) private sector health services, and 
(iv) preparation of draft legislation on health financing; and provision of  
fellowships, equipment and materials.

Regional Health Service in Ciechanow, Pomerania and Wielkopolski

Regional Management: Strengthening the capacity of the Health Consortia to 

D.
 
1.
formulate regional policies to support a coordinated decentralization of the health 
care system, to design programs, strategic plans and operational proposals to 
implement these policies and evaluate their effectiveness, and provision of training, 
and equipment needed for these activities.

Infrastructure Consolidation: Upgrading of infrastructure and equipment of 

2.
primary care and institutional care facilities, including consolidation of existing 
health facilities in accordance
with regional health service strategic plans referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of 
Schedule 1.

Admission/Discharge Information and Accounting: Strengthening the management 

3.
capacity of regional and local institutions through introduction of information 
systems needed to provide more efficient and higher quality services.

Pharmaceutical Monitoring System: Development of the regional design of the 

4.
monitoring system described in Part C.3 above, implementation thereof on the regional 
level and provision of office equipment, reference materials and computer hardware and 
software needed therefor.

Materials and Technology Management: Development of guidelines for technology 

5.
and material standards, implementation of cost containment measures through systematic 
procurement, handling,
storage and utilization of expensive materials, drugs, equipment, linen and food and 
provision of short-term fellowships, in-service training of local staff, medical 
technology maintenance equipment and tools and computer hardware and software needed 
therefor.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1996                                2,990,000
June 15, 1997                                    3,105,000
December 15, 1997                                3,225,000
June 15, 1998                                    3,350,000
December 15, 1998                                3,480,000
June 15, 1999                                    3,615,000
December 15, 1999                                3,755,000
June 15, 2000                                    3,900,000
December 15, 2000                                4,050,000

June 15, 2001                                    4,205,000
December 15, 2001                                4,370,000
June 15, 2002                                    4,540,000
December 15, 2002                                4,715,000
June 15, 2003                                    4,895,000
December 15, 2003                                5,085,000
June 15, 2004                                    5,280,000
December 15, 2004                                5,485,000
June 15, 2005                                    5,695,000
December 15, 2005                                5,915,000
June 15, 2006                                    6,145,000
December 15, 2006                                6,385,000
June 15, 2007                                    6,630,000
December 15, 2007                                6,885,000
June 15, 2008                                    7,155,000
December 15, 2008                                7,430,000
June 15, 2009                                    7,715,000

_____________________________

*
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment multi-
                                     plied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.
 

Procurement of Goods and Works

International Competitive Bidding

Part A:
 
1.
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 

2.
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.

To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 

Part B:
 

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 

A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Poland may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Other Procurement Procedures

Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less 

Part C:
 
1.
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of bids invited from a list of at 
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with 
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraph 2.8, 
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less 

2.
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 

3.
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three local suppliers, in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Contracts for books, technical journals, training materials, audio visual 

4.
materials, computer software, including annual upgrading and licensing arrangements, 
copyrights, translation and reprinting rights and other proprietary items up to an 
aggregate amount of $13,300,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, publishers, copyright owners or other authorized
distributors or on the basis of competitive quotations for discounts on list prices 
from retailers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:
 
1.
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a)

With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 

$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 

contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.

2.
to the Guidelines.

The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 

Section II.
 

Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 

employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

1.
For the purposes of implementation of the Project, the Borrower has established 
NPIU, which shall have overall responsibility for coordination of the carrying out of 
the Project and the
Borrower shall ensure that NPIU will be maintained and will be provided at all times 
with such staff, functions and authorities as is acceptable to the Bank.

2.
The Borrower shall make adequate arrangements for the Project to be implemented 
by the executing agencies, who shall be assisted by the respective line departments of 
MOH and obtain policy guidance and monitoring feedback from the steering committees, 
all in accordance with the Annex to this Schedule.

3.
The Borrower shall carry out training, including fellowships, under the Project 
in accordance with terms of reference, and pursuant to a time schedule, acceptable to 
the Bank.

In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the 

4.
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, by December 1 of each year, a technical and financial report in 
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, and afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to review with the Borrower the conclusion and recommendation of any such 
report, including proposed budgets for MOH and the voivodships participating in the 
Consortia of the Project and any measure necessary to be taken during the subsequent 
year to ensure proper execution of the Project.

In order to ensure maximum benefits from the experience gained during 

5.
implementation of the Project, two interim reviews shall be carried out, jointly, by 
the Borrower and the Bank, not later than December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1996, 
according to terms of reference prepared by the Borrower and furnished to the Bank, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Bank, not later than September 30, 1994 and 
September 30, 1996, respectively. Such interim reviews shall, inter alia:

(a)

determine overall implementation progress and ways of improving Project 

operations, for the achievement of the Project objectives;

(b)

allow opportunity to effect changes in policy, which may be necessary 

upon experience during the initial Project execution period and effect mid-course 
adjustments, if necessary, in Project execution; and

(c)

identify possible follow-up operations.

 

ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (4) set forth in 

the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8 million 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 

in 
said 
 
4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

documents and other evidence.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 

only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

