CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3682 MA

(Health Development Project)

between

MALAYSIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 27, 1993

LOAN AGREEMENT

 LOAN NUMBER 3682 MA

AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1993, between MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS: the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

(e)

(f)

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 
 

"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 

withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

"Central Bank" means Bank Negara, the Borrower’s central bank;

Science, Technology and the Environment (MSTE);

"DOC" means the Department of Chemistry within the Borrower’s Ministry of 

"DOC-PIC" means the Project Implementation Committee to be established 
within DOC pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(c)

(d)

"DOC-PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established within 

DOC pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A of Schedule 5 to this agreement;

"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 

"MOH-PIC" means the Project Implementation Committee to be established 

within MOH pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this agreement; 
and

(g)

"MOH-PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within MOH.

 

 

 

 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty million dollars 
($50,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)

The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 

Loan withdrawn 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

of 1%).  On each of the dates specified 
shall pay interest accrued 

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 

"(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."

"(c)

(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 

1, April 1,  July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project (except Part A.1 (1) and A.2 thereof) through MOH, and shall carry out 
Part A.1 (1) and A.2 through DOC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, health care, environmental, financial and administrative 
practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, personnel, services 
and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

 

Section for 
auditing principles 
acceptable to the Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 

consistently applied, by independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than nine 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 
 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date: Termination

Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

that the DOC-PIU shall have been established and staffed in accordance 

with the provisions contained in paragraphs A (1) and A (2) of Schedule 5, to this 

Agreement;

(b)

that the MOH-PIC shall have been established in accordance with the 

provisions contained in paragraph B (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

(c)

that the DOC-PIC shall have been established in accordance with the 

provisions contained in paragraph B (2) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(d)

that the staff referred to in paragraph A(3) of Schedule 5 to this 

Agreement shall have been employed within MOH-PIU. 

Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of Finance of the 

Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur

Cable address: 

Treasury 
Kuala Lumpur

For the Bank:

 

 

 

Telex:

MA 30242
MA 32369

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI),
 82987 (FTCC) or
197688 (TRT).

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

MALAYSIA

By /s/ Dato Majid

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                   Amount of the                 % of
                                  Loan Allocated              Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in                  to be
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)              Financed

(1)   Civil Works:

      (a) Part A.1 (1)                10,000,000             ) 33%
                                                             )
      (b) Part A.1 (2),                7,600,000             )
          B and C                                            )

(2)   Goods (Equipment
      and vehicles)

      (a) Part A.1 (1)                 7,400,000             ) 100% of foreign
          and A.2                                            ) expenditures
                                                             ) (ex-factory
      (b) Part A.1 (2)                13,300,000             ) cost) and
          B and C                                            ) 75% of local
                                                             ) expenditures
                                                             ) for other items
                                                             ) procured
                                                             ) locally

(3)   Goods (Furniture)

      (a)  Part A.1 (1)                  300,000             ) 23%
           and A.2                                           )
                                                             )
      (b)  Part A.1 (2),                 300,000             )
           B and C

(4)   Consultants’ services
      for design and
      supervision fees:

      (a) Part A.1 (1)                 3,100,000             ) 69%
                                                             )
      (b) Part A.1 (2) and C           2,000,000             )

(5)   Technical assistance             1,700,000               100%

(6)   Unallocated                      4,300,000

                 TOTAL                50,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1993 in respect of Category (2) (a) in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,600,000.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to:

Increase the Borrower’s capacity to monitor environmental health and disease 

1.
control.

2.
 
3.
 
4.
 

Improve access to primary health care. 

Improve the quality of blood services offered.

Strengthen the capacity of MOH.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Environmental Health and Disease Control

Part A:
 
1.
 
(1)
food analysis and testing for DOC; and

Construction, equipping, and furnishing of the following aboratories:

A central laboratory and approximately four branch laboratories for water and 

A central laboratory and approximately two regional laboratories for 

(2)
surveillance and management of communicable diseases, screening for cervical cancer, 
surveillance of food and
water quality and the carrying out of tests examinations for MOH.

Equipping and furnishing of about five existing laboratories for DOC.

2.
 
Part B:
 

Primary Health Care

Improvement by MOH of the quality of basic health care provided in areas with 

low health status (including, inter alia, the states of Kelantan, Terengganu, and 
Sarawak) through:

Construction, equipping, and furnishing of approximately 5 new health care 

(1)
facilities and rehabilitation of approximately 7 existing facilities to provide 
preventive and curative services for rural populations.

Part C:
 

Health Technology

Increasing the availability of, and facilitating access to, blood products, and 

improving the collection, production and supply thereof, and the development of 
policies and practices to ensure the safety of blood products, through:

(1)
 
(2)
hospitals.

Construction, equipping, and furnishing of a national blood services center;

Provision of blood product-related equipment for approximately 12 major 

Institutional Strengthening of MOH

The carrying out of a training program for about 23 candidates and provision of 

Part D:
 
(1)
technical assistance to strengthen MOH’s ability to assess health technologies, 
improve the quality of care
(particularly community mental health and day care services), improve management and 
clinical skills (including in endoscopy and opthamology), and undertake policy 
development in strategic areas, such as occupational health.

Training about 27 MOH staff in laboratory management and practice in the area of 

(2)
environmental health and disease control in order that such staff shall be of 
assistance in the laboratories referred to in Part A.1 (2) of the Project.

Training for about 20 candidates under the Borrower’s overseas training program 

(3)
relating to the management of blood services to assist in the carrying out of Part C 
of the Project.

In this Schedule, equipping includes providing vehicles.

 *          *          *          *

The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning July 15, 1999
through July 15, 2010 

and on January 15, 2011

 

 

 

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

2,085,000

2,045,000

_____________________________

*  
the respective 
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of 
dates of withdrawal.  See 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium 
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid 
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment 

Time of Prepayment

Premium

below:

(expressed as a

applicable to 

prepayment

Not more than three years

before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not

more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before

maturity

The interest rate 

percentage per annum) 

the Loan on the day of 

multiplied by:

0.18

0.35

0.65

0.88

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

International Competitive Bidding

1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).

(a)

For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to 

in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder’s bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be 
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local 
currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.

(b)

In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with 

this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding 
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifica-tions thereto as the 
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B:

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted 
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 

of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil Works

      Civil works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.

Equipment and Vehicles

      (a)
Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $100,000 and less than the equivalent of $500,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000.

(b)

Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equiva-lent to 
$3,900,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with proce-dures acceptable 
to the Bank.

3.    Furniture

Furniture, other than as provided in sub-paragraph (b) 

      (a)
below, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
compe-titive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.

 Items or groups of items of furniture estimated to cost the 

      (b)
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $600,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.
contracts:

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 

(a)

With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated 

to cost the equivalent of respectively $500,000 and $1,000,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 

paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.

2.
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 

Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experi-ence, and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 

Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by 
the Bank. Where no rele-vant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

A.

Project Implementation Units (PIU’s)

The Borrower shall maintain and operate within MOH the MOH-PIU and 

(1)
shall establish, maintain and operate within DOC the DOC-PIU. The PIU’s 
shall have such responsibilities and powers as may be necessary or 
incidental to the proper execution and supervision of the Project and, in 
particular responsibilities and powers to:

(a)

provide support to its respective PIC and coordi-nate with 

user groups;

liaise with the Bank and other agencies;

(b)

(c)

(f)

(g)

methods and procedures;

administer centralized procurement under stan-dardized 

(d)

administer and coordinate technical assistance services and 

guide the design of civil works and oversee construction activities;

(e)

keep financial accounts and administer expenditures and 

prepare and submit withdrawal applica-tions to the Bank;

arrange for timely audits of project accounts;

thereon to MOH, DOC and the Bank; and

monitor progress and preparation of semi-annual reports 

(h)

engage professional services (including consultant 

architects, engineers and quantity surveyors) to assist with civil works 
and with equipment procurement.

The DOC-PIU shall consist of the Project Coordinator, assisted by 

staff with three functions, the Procurement Section, Finance and 
Accounting Section and Civil Works Section.

The MOH-PIU consists of the Project Coordinator, assisted by a 

procurement officer under whom shall function three sections, the 
Procurement Section, Finance and Accounting Section and Civil Works 
Section.

The Borrower shall employ within DOC-PIU a project coordinator, 

(2)
staff responsible for procurement, staff responsible for accounting and 
finance, and staff to oversee civil works with qualifications and under 
terms of employment satisfacto-ry to the Bank;

(3)  The Borrower shall employ within MOH-PIU at least seven further 
staff responsible for procurement, project finance and accounting and 
project implementa-tion, with qualifications and under terms of 
employment satisfactory to the Bank.

B.

Project Implementation Committees (PIC’s)

(1)  The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain, the MOH-PIC 
which shall be chaired by the MOH Secretary General (who may be 
represented by the Deputy Secretary General when unable to attend any 
meeting) and shall include the following members:  representa-tives of 
the Economic Planning Unit within the Prime Minister’s Department, the 
Federal Treasury, the Public Works Department and Public Services 
Department, MOH Directors and State Directors as appropriate.

(2)  The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain, the DOC-PIC 
which shall be chaired by the DOC Director-General and shall include the 
following members:  representatives of the Economic Planning Unit within 
the Prime Minister’s Department, the Federal Treasury, the Public Works 
Department and Public Services Department, DOC Directors and State 
Directors as appropriate.

The MOH-PIC and the DOC-PIC shall meet on a regular basis to decide 

on policy matters, make major resource allocations, establish quality 
control and ensure that plans and programs are duly executed.

