CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3718 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Yangzhou Thermal Power Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 16, 1994

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3718 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Borrower intends to obtain from certain commercial banks a syndicated 

loan in an amount of ninety million dollars ($90,000,000) and a syndicated loan in an 
amount equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000) to assist in financing Part 
A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Syndicated 
Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the said commercial 
banks;

(C)

The Project will be carried out by Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power 

Company (JPEPC as herein defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to JPEPC the proceeds of the Loan as 

provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
JPEPC;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

 

(a)

(b)

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 
 

"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 

withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"JPEPC" means the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company, a state 

owned enterprise organized and existing, pursuant to its Charter dated December 19, 
1988, under the laws of the People’s Republic of China.

(b)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and JPEPC of 

even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(c)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(d)

"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and JPEPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and the term
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided to JPEPC thereunder.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred and fifty 
million dollars ($350,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into  and payments out of, the Special Account shall 

be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 

of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 

shall pay interest accrued on the 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 

shall notify the 
of such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 

and November 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause JPEPC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of JPEPC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JPEPC to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to JPEPC under a 

subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and JPEPC, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed to by the Bank which shall include: 
(i) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of twenty years, 
including five years of grace; (ii) JPEPC shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate 
calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (iii) JPEPC shall pay to 
the Borrower a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
(iv) JPEPC shall bear the foreign exchange risk in respect of the Subsidiary Loan.

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by JPEPC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

 

 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
audited, in 
consistently applied, by 
Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 

independent auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

months after the end of each such year the report of 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Project Agreement.

JPEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that JPEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c)

The Charter of JPEPC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 

repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of JPEPC to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JPEPC or for the suspension of 
its operations.

(e)

The Syndicated Loan Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 

December 31, 1994 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this  paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower or JPEPC from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement or the obligations of JPEPC under the 
Project Agreement.

(f)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

 

agreed 
 

of any loan 
financing of the Project 
terminated in whole or in part, 
 

(A)

the right of the Borrower or JPEPC to withdraw the proceeds 
or grant made to the Borrower or JPEPC for the 

shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
pursuant to the terms thereof, or

(B)

any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 

maturity thereof.

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

establishes 
cancellation, 
the failure of the Borrower or 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate 
Project are available to the Borrower or JPEPC from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 

JPEPC to perform any of its 
funds for the 

termination or prematuring is not caused by 

Borrower under this Agreement or of JPEPC under the Project Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

(b)

any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur; and

(c)

the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto; 

and

 

(b)

the Borrower’s State Council has approved this Agreement.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by JPEPC, 

and is legally binding upon JPEPC in accordance with its terms; 

(b)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by the Borrower and JPEPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and JPEPC in 
accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

 

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA),
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Yang Jiechi

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Nicholas Hope

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)       Goods                    319,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures, 100%
                                                    of local expendi-
                                                    tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally

(2)       Consultants’              11,000,000      100%
          services and
          training

(3)       Unallocated               20,000,000
                                   ___________

          TOTAL                    350,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) financed or to be financed under the Syndicated Loan Agreements.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not exceeding 
$400,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) support 

institutional and structural power subsector reforms in Jiangsu; (b) contribute to 
further rationalization of the power tariff structure; (c) promote application of 
modern financial management techniques and  transform JPEPC’s accounting system; (d) 
provide cost effective and environmentally sustainable additional generation capacity; 
(e) transfer new power technologies for large coal-fired power plants and apply modern 
power system operation; (f) extend technical assistance in management development and 
staff training programs; and (g) strengthen institutional capabilities for 
environmental management and monitoring.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Construction of Power Plant

Part A:
 
1.
generating units and associated equipment and facilities.

Construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant with two six hundred megawatt 

2.
reinforcement of the existing power transmission network.

Erection of two 500 kilovolt transmission lines about 30 kilometers long and 

Technical Assistance

Part B:
 
1.
 
2.
accounting and financial management information systems.

Provision of engineering and construction management services.

Provision of assistance for the development and implementation of improved 

3.
of equipment therefor.

Carrying out of management development and training programs including provision 

4.
programs including provision of equipment therefor.

Carrying out of environmental management and monitoring and resettlement 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due
 
November 1, 1999                              

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

  6,630,000

May 1, 2000                                   
November 1, 2000                              
May 1, 2001                                   
November 1, 2001                              
May 1, 2002                                   
November 1, 2002                              
May 1, 2003                                   
November 1, 2003                              
May 1, 2004                                   
November 1, 2004                              
May 1, 2005                                   
November 1, 2005                             
May 1, 2006                                  
November 1, 2006                             
May 1, 2007                                  
November 1, 2007                             
May 1, 2008                                  
November 1, 2008                             
May 1, 2009                                  
November 1, 2009                             
May 1, 2010                                  
November 1, 2010                             
May 1, 2011                                  
November 1, 2011                             
May 1, 2012                                  
November 1, 2012                             
May 1, 2013                                  
November 1, 2013                             
May 1, 2014                                  
 
_____________________________

  6,870,000
  7,120,000
  7,380,000
  7,650,000
  7,925,000
  8,215,000
  8,515,000
  8,825,000
  9,145,000
  9,475,000
  9,820,000
 10,175,000
 10,545,000
 10,930,000
 11,330,000
 11,740,000
 12,165,000
 12,610,000
 13,065,000
 13,540,000
 14,035,000
 14,545,000
 15,075,000
 15,620,000
 16,190,000
 16,775,000
 17,385,000
 18,020,000
 18,685,000

*
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

 

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years                

before maturity

More than three years but                

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but                  

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not               

More than 16 years but not               

more than 16 years
before maturity

more than 18 years
before maturity

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

More than 18 years before                

1.00

maturity

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the 

table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. 

Account such amount as the 
been shown by 

the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that  the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

