*IX

LOAN NUMBER 3788  CHA

Loan  Agreement

(Shenyang Industrial Reform Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

Y 

,  1995

LOAN NUMBER  3788  CHA

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated 

,  1995,  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA  (the  Borro  r)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  7OR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank).

0 

WHEREAS:  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself  as  to  the
to
in  the  financing  of

feasibility 
this  Agreement,  has  requested  the  Bank  to  assist 
the  Project;

of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2 

and  pr,ority 

(B)  Parts  A  and  C  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by
Shenyang  Municipality  (Shenyang)  with  the  Borrower'  s  assistance  and,
the  Borrower  will  make  available  to
as  part  of  such  assistance, 
Shenyang  the proceeds of  the  Loan as provided in this  Agreement;

(C) Part  B.1  of  the  Project will  be  carried out  by  Shenyang
Machine  Tool  Company  Limited  (SMTCL)  with  the  Borrower's  assistance
and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  Shenyang  will  make  available  to
SMTCL  a  portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as  provided 
Agreement;  and

this

in 

(D)  Part  B.2  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  Bank  of
and  the  Industrial  and  Commercial
Communications  Limited 
Bank  of  China  (ICBC)  (the  Financial  Intermediaries)  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  Shenyang  will
make  available  to  the  Financial  Intermediaries  a  portion  of  the
proceeds  of  the Loan as provided in  this Agreement;

(BOCOM) 

WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter 

of  the
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and
foregoing, 
conditions  set forth  in this Agreement  and in the  Shenyang  Project
Agreement  of  even  date  herewith  between  the  Bank  and  Shenyang  and
the  Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement  of  even  date  herewith
between the Bank and  the Financial  Intermediaries;

alia, 

NOW THEREFORE  the parties hereto hereby agree as  follows:

ARTICLE  I

General Conditions;  Definitions

Section  1.01. The  "General Conditions Applicable to  Loan and
Guarantee  Agreements  for  Single  Currency Loan"  of  the  Bank, dated

-2-

forth  in  Schedule  5  to
February  9,  1993,  with  the  modifications  set 
this Agreement  (the General Conditions)  constitute an  integral part
of  this Agreement.

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  have  the  respective
meanings therein  set  forth and the following additional  terms have
the  following meanings:

(a) 

"BOCOM"  means 

a
national  joint-stock commercial  bank, established and operating as
a  bank  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  and  in  accordance  with  the
BOCOM Charter.

the  Bank  of  Communications  Limited, 

(b)  "BOCOM  Charter"  means 

the  Bank  of
Communications  Limited,  adopted  by  the  shareholders  of  BOCOM  and.
approved by the People's Bank of  China, dated July 12,  1994.

the  Charter  of 

(c)  "BOCOM  Policy  Guidelines"  means  the  statements  of
operating policies and procedures  approved by BOCOM, including the
administrative  rules of  BOCOM on  asset-liability management,  dated
June  3,  1994,  and the  policy and  operations  guidelines  of  BOCOM's
Shenyang branch, dated July 1, 1987, as revised thereafter with the
Bank's  concurrence.

(d)  "BOCOM  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to
be entered into between Shenyang and BOCOM pursuant to Section 2.02
(b)  of  the  Shenyang  Project  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended
schedules  to  the  BOCOM
from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(e)  "Category" means a  withdrawal category set  forth in  the

table  in paragraph 1  of  Schedule  1  to this  Agreement.

(f) 

ICBC,
collectively,  and  "Financial  Intermediary"  means  any  of  the
Financial  Intermediaries.

Intermediaries"  means 

"Financial 

BOCOM 

and 

(g)  "Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement"  means  the
agreement  between  the  Bank  and  BOCOM  and  ICBC  of  even  date  herewith,
as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes
all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  the  Financial
Intermediaries  Project Agreement.

-3-

(h) 

"foreign  currency"  means  any  currency  other  than  the

currency of  the Borrower.

(i) 

"free-limit 

Sub-loan"  means  a  Sub-loan,  as  so  defined,
which  qualifies  as  a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions
(b)  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Financial  Intermediaries
of  paragraph  2 
Project Agreement.

(i) 

"ICBC"  means  the  Industrial  and  Commercial  Bank  of  China,
established and operating as  a bank under the  laws  of the Borrower
and in accordance  with the  ICBC  Charter.

(k) 

"ICBC  Charter"  means  the  Charter  of  the  Industrial  and
Commercial  Bank  of  China,  approved  by  the  State  Council  on
recommendation of  the  People's Bank of China on November 15,  1989.

(1)  "ICBC  Policy  Statement"  means 

the  policy  statement
approved  by  ICBC  in  July  1989,  as  revised  thereafter  with  the  Bank's
concurrence.

(m)  "ICBC Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement  to
be entered  into between Shenyang and  ICBC pursuant to  Section 2.02
(b)  of  the  Shenyang  Project  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended
from time to time, and such term includes  all schedules  to  the ICBC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(n)  "Investment Enterprise" means  an enterprise to which one
of  the  Financial  Intermediaries  proposes  to  make  or  has  made  a
Sub-loan.

(o)  "Investment  Project"  means  a  specific  development  project
to be carried out  by an Investment Enterprise under Part B.2  of  the
Project utilizing the proceeds  of a  Sub-loan.

(p) 

"Reform  Action  Program"  means  the  Reform  Action  Program
dated  February  28,  1994,  from  Shenyang  to  the

attached  to  the  letter 
Bank.

(q)  "Renminbi" means  the  currency  of  the  Borrower.

(r) 

"Shenyang"  means  Shenyang  Municipality,  the  capital  of  the

Borrower's  Province  of  Liaoning.

(s) "Shenyang Project Agreement"  means  the  agreement between
the  Bank  and  Shenyang  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be

-4-

amended from time to time,  and such term includes all  schedules and
agreements supplemental  to the Shenyang Project Agreement.

(t) "SMTCL" means the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited,
a  limited  liability  shareholding  corporation  established  and
operating under the laws  of  the  Borrower and the SMTCL Charter.

(u)  "SMTCL  Charter"  means  the  Charter  of  SMTCL,  dated  May  21,
1994,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the
concurrence of  the Bank.

(v)  "SMTCL  Management  Restruc-Luring  Plan"  means  the  phased
program  of  restructuring  of  the  functions  and responsibilities  of
the management and  irternal  organization of  SMTCL,  as  approved by
the  SMTCL Board of Directors in August  1994.

(w)  "SMTCL  Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the
Bank  and  SMTCL  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended
from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and
agreements supplemental to  the SMTCL Project Agreement.

(x) "SMTCL  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to
be  entered  into  between  Shenyang  and  SMTCL  pursuant  to  Section  2.02
(a)  of  the  Shenyang  Project  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended
from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  to  the  SMTCL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(y) "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section

2.02  (b) of  this  Agreement.

(z) "Sub-loan"  means  a  loan  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  by  one
of  the  Financial  Intermediaries out of  the proceeds  of  the  Loan to
an  Investment Enterprise  for an  Investment  Project.

(aa)  "Subsidiary"  means  any  company  of  which  a  majority  of  the
outstanding voting stock  or other proprietary interest  is  owned or
effectively controlled by a Financial  Intermediary or by any one or
more  Subsidiaries  of  said  Financial  Intermediary  or  by  said
Financial  Intermediary and any one or more of  its  Subsidiaries.

(bb)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements"  means the SMTCL Subsidiary
the  BOCOM  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  the  ICBC
Loan  Agreement, 
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and  "Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means  any
one of  the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

-5-

ARTICLE  II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various currencies  that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
one  hundred  seventy-five  million  dollars
the  amount  of 
($175,000,000).

Section  2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from

to  be  made) 

the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for.  (i) expenditures made  (or, if  the Bank shall so
agree, 
in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and
services  required  for  Parts  A,  B.1  and  C  of  the  Project  described  in
Schedule 2  to this Agreement and to be financed out of  the proceeds
of  the Loan;  and  (ii)  amounts paid  (or, if  the Bank shall  so agree,
to  be  paid)  by  one  of  the  Financial  Intermediaries  on  account  of
withdrawals  made  by  an  Investment  Enterprise  under  a  Sub-loan  to
meet  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  required  for  the
Investment Project  in respect  of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account  is  requested.

(b)  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,  open
and maintain in  dollars  a  special  deposit account  in  a  bank and on
terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  appropriate
protection  against  set-off, 
seizure  or  attachment.  Deposits  into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance
with the provisions  of  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such
date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly

later 
notify the  Borrower of  such later date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment
charge at  the  rate  of  three-fourths of one  percent  (3/4 of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

Section  2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest 

on  the

principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time, at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  Single Currency
LIBOR, plus one-half  of  one percent  (1/2 of  1%),  plus or minus  the
Average Margin as  provided in paragraph  (b)  (iv) below.

-6-

(b) 

For the purposes of  this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Interest Period" means  the  initial period from
and  including the  date  of  this Agreement to but
not  including  the  first  Interest  Payment  Date
and thereafter the period from and including any
Interest  Payment  Date  to  but  not  including  the
next  Interest  Payment Date.

"Interest  Payment  Date"  means  any  date  specified
in  Section 2.06  of  this Agreement.

LIBOR"  means 

"Single  Currency 
the  London
interbank  offered  rate  for  dollars,  expressed  as
a percentage per annum, reasonably determined by
the  Bank  in  accordance  with Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement for the January 15 or July 15  on which
an  Interest  Period  commences  (or,  for  the
initial  Interest Period, the  January 15  or July
15  preceding  the  date  of  this  Agreement  or  on
which such Interest  Period commences).

all 

currencies,  and 

(iv)  "Average  Margin"  means,  for  any  Interest  Period,
the  weighted  average  margin,  for  the  Semester
preceding  the  relevant  January  15  or  July  15,
between: 
(A)  the  cost  of  the  outstanding
borrowings  of  the  Bank  or  portions  thereof
allocated  to  the  funding  of  single  currency
loans  in 
the  specific
London  and,  for  French  francs,  Paris  interbank
offered  rates  or  other  such  reference  rates
attributable  to  such  borrowings  in  each  such
currency, 
as  reasonably  determined  by  the
Bank  and  expressed  as  a  percentage  per  annum.
For  any  Interest  Period  in  which  (A)  exceeds
(B),  the  Average  Margin  shall  be  added  under
paragraph  (a) above.  For any Interest Period in
which  (B) exceeds  (A),  the Average Margin  shall
be  subtracted under paragraph  (a) above.

(B) 

all 

(v) 

"Semester" means  the  first six months or second
six months  of  a  calendar year.

- 7 

-

(c) 

After  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  Single  Currency
LIBOR  and  the  Average  Margin  for  any  Interest  Period,  the  Bank  shall
promptly notify the  Borrower of  such determination.

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually on January 15  and July 15  in  each year.

Section  2.07. The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of
the Loan  in accordance  with the  amortization schedule  set  forth in
Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of  the  Project;
Use  of the  Proceeds of  the Loan

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its  commitment to  the
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement, and, to  this end, without  limitation or restriction upon
any of  its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,  the Borrower
shall  cause  Shenyang,  SMTCL  and  the  Financial  Intermediaries  to
perform all  their respective obligations  set  forth in the  Shenyang
the  SMTCL  Project  Agreement  and  the  Financial
Project  Agreement, 
Intermediaries  Project  Agreement,  shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken
all  action, including the  provision of  funds,  facilities,  services
and  other  resources,  necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  Shenyang,
SMTCL and the Financial Intermediaries to perform such obligations,
and  shall  not  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action  which  would
prevent  or interfere with such performance.

(b)  The  Borrower  shall  relend  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to

(ii) 

Shenyang on the  following principal  terms  and conditions:
(i) repayment  over a period not  exceeding 20  years,  including  five
at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  applicable
years  of  grace; 
from  time to  time to  the Loan pursuant  to  Section 2.05  (a) of  this
Agreement;  (iii) a commitment charge equal to  the commitment charge
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  Section  2.04  of
this  Agreement;  and  (iv)  foreign  exchange  risk  to  be  borne  by
Shenyang.

interest 

Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement  of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services  required  for  the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be

-8-

governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Shenyang  Project
Agreement  (for  Parts  A  and  C  of  the  Project),  Schedule  1  to  the
SMTCL Project Agreement  (for Part B.1  of  the  Project)  and Schedule
2  to  the  Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement  (for Tart  B.2  of
the  Project).

Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that  the
obligations  set  forth  in Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and
9.09 of the General Conditions  (relating to insurance, use of  goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively):  (a) in  respect  of  Parts A  and
C  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried  out  by  Shenyang  pursuant  to
respect  of
Section  2.04  of  the  Shenyang  Project  Agreemeit; 
Part B.1  of the  Project  shall  be  carried out  by SMTCL pursuant  to
Section 2.03  of  the  SMTCL Project  Agreement;  and  (c) in respect of
Part  B.2  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  Financial
Intermediaries  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  the  Financial
Intermediaries  Project Agreement.

(b) 

in 

ARTICLE IV

Financial  Covenants

Section  4.01.  (a) The Borrower  shall maintain  or cause  to be
in  accordance
maintained  records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect 
with  sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources  and
expenditures  in  respect  of  Parts  A  and  C  of  the  Project  of  the
departments  or  agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible  for  carrying  out.
the  Project or any part  thereof.

(b) The  Borrower shall:

(i) 

have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  including  those
for  the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal  year
audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate  auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors  acceptable  to  the Bank;

(ii) 

furnish to the Bank as  soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of  each  such year, the  report  of  such audit by
said auditors,  of  such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;  and

-9-

(iii) 

to 

information
the  Bank  such  other 
f urnish 
concerning  said  records  and  accounts  and  the
audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to
time reasonably request.

(c)  For  all 

expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure,  the Borrower shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained,  in
accordance  with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,
such
records 
expenditures;

reflecting 

accounts 

and 

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank
has  received  the  audit  report  for  the  fiscal
year in which the  last withdrawal  from the  Loan
Account  or  payment  out  of  the  Snecial  Account
was  made,  all  records  (conticts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
evidencing such expenditures;

(iii)  enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine

such records;  and

(iv)  ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included  in  the  annual  audit  referred  to  in
paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the
report  of  such  audit  contains  a  separate  opinion
by  said  auditors  as  to  whether  the  statements  of
year,
expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal 
together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
controls  involved  in their  preparation,  can  be
relied upon to support  the  related withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of  the Bank

Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02 

(1)  of  the  General

Conditions,  the  following additional  events  are  specified:

(a) Shenyang,  SMTCL or any  Financial  Intermediary shall  have
failed to perform any of  its obligations under the Shenyang Project

- 10 

-

Agreement,  SMTCL  Project  Agreement  or  Financial  Intermediaries
Project  Agreement, respectively.

(b)  As  a  result 

of  events  which  have  occurred  after 

the  date
of  the Loan Agreement, an  extraordinary situation shall have arisen
improbable  that  Shenyang,  SMTCL or  any  Financial
which  shall  make  it 
Intermediary  will  be  able  to  perform  its  obligations  under  the
SMTCL  Project  Agreement  or  Financial
Shenyang  Project  Agreement, 
Intermediaries  Project Agreement, respectively.

(c)  The  BOCOM  Charter, 

ICBC  Charter  or  the  SMTCL  Charter  or
the  BOCOM  Policy  Guidelines  or  the  ICBC  Policy  Statement  shall  have
been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to
affect  materially  and  adversely  the  operations  or  the  financial
condition of  SMTCL or  any  Financial Intermediary or  its  ability to
respective  obligations  under  the  SMTCL  Project
carry  out  any  of  its 
Agreement  or  the  Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement.

(d) The  Borrower  or  any other  authority having  jurisdiction
shall  have  taken  any  action  for  the  dissolution  or  disestablishment
of  SMTCL  or  any  Financial  Intermediary  or  for  the  suspension  of  its
operations.

Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7,01 

(h)  of  the  General

Conditions,  the  following additional  events are  specified:

(a)  any  event  specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.01  of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue  for a period of  sixty
notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
days  after 
Borrower;  and

(b)  any  event  specified  in  paragraphs 

5.01  of  this  Agreement  shall occur.

(c)  or  (d)  of  Section

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date;  Termination

Section  6.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional
conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the
meaning of  Section 12.01  (c) of  the General  Conditions:

(a)  the  Borrower's  State  Council  has  approved  the  Loan

Agreement;  and

- 11  -

(b) 

the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been  executed  on

behalf of  Shenyang and SMTCL, BOCOM and  ICBC, respectively.

Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional
(c)  of  the  General
matters,  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.02 
Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be
furnished to  the Bank:

(a)  that  the  Shenyang  Project  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized  or  ratified  by  Shenyang  and  is  legally  binding  upon
Shenyang in accordance with  its  terms;

(b) that the  SMTCL Project Agreement has  been duly authorized
by  SMTCL  and  is  legally  binding  upon  SMTCL  in  accordance

or  ratified 
with its  terms;

(c) 

that  the  Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement  has
by  each  Financial  Intermediary  and
been  duly  authorized  or  ratified 
is  legally binding upon each  Financial  Intermediary  in  accordance
with its  terms;  and

(d)  that 

the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been  duly
by  Shenyang  and  by  SMTCL,  BOCOM  and  ICBC,
authorized  or  ratified 
respectively, and are  legally binding upon the  Borrower and SMTCL,
BOCOM and ICBC,  respectively, in  accordance with their terms.

Section  6.03.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after 

the  date  of  this

Agreement is  hereby specified  for the purposes  of  Section 12.04  of
the General  Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representatives of  the  Borrower;  Addresses

Section  7.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower 

is
designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of
Section  11.03  of  the General  Conditions.

Section  7.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the

purposes  of  Section 11.01 of  the  General  Conditions:

- 12  -

For the  Borrower:

Ministry of  Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's Republic of  China

Cable address: 

Telex:

For  the Bank:

International Bank  for

Reconstruction and Development

1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of  America

FINANMIN 
Beijing

22486  MFPRC CN

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (RCA)

82987  (FTCC)
64145  (WUI) or

197688  (TRT)

- 13  -

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties hereto,  acting through their
duly  authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be
of  Columbia,  United
signed  in 
States  of America,  as of  the day and year  first above  written.

respective  names  in  the  District 

their 

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

By 

I 

Loj

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BAC FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT

By

Regi nal  Vice  President
East Asia and Pacific

- 14  -

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of  the  Proceeds of  the Loan

1.  The  table  below  sets  forth the  Categories  of  items  to be
the  allocation  of  the
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  for items  so  to be  financed in  each Category:

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar 
Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to  be
Financed

Cate3ory 

(1) 

Sub-loans:

(a) under Part  B.2  (a) 
of  the Project 

30,000,000 

100%  of amounts
disbursed by a
Financial  Inter-
mediary

(b) under Part B.2  (b) 

10,000,000

of  the Project

(2) 

Goods,  including
technical licenses

(a) under Parts A  and C 
of  the Project 

8,500,000 

(b) under Part B.1  of 

104,500,000 

the  Project 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures,
100%  of  local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and  75%
of  local
expenditures  for
other items
procured locally

- 15  -

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar 

Ecuivalent) 

% of

Expenditures

to be
Financed

100%

Category 

(3) 

Consultants'  services 
and training:

(a) under Parts A  and 
C  of  the  Project

4,500,000

(b) under Part B.1  of 
the  Project

4,000,000

(4)  Unallocated 

13,500,000

TOTAL 

175,000,000

2. For the  purposes  of  this Schedule:

the 

term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures 

the
(a) 
currency  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for  goods  or
services  supplied from the  territory of any country other than that
of  the Borrower;  and

in 

(b)  the  term  "local  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in 

the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services  supplied from the
territory of  the Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no
withdrawals  shall be  made  in respect of:  (a) a  Sub-loan unless  the
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms  and conditions  set  forth or referred to  in Schedule  1  to  the
Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement;  and  (b)  payments  made
for expenditures  prior to  the date  of  this  Agreement.

The  Bank may require  withdrawals  from the Loan Account to be

4. 
made  on the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures:
(a) under  contracts  for goods  and for expenditures  under  Sub-loans
(b)  under  contracts  with
not  exceeding  $200,000  equivalent; 
consulting  firms  not  exceeding  $100,000  and  with  individual

- 16 

-

consultants  not  exceeding  $50,000;  and  (c)  for  expenditures  for
training, 
under  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Bank  shall
specify by notice to  the Borrower.

all 

- 17 

-

SCHEDULE 2

Description of  the  Project

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are: 

Shenyang  in
the  reform and reorganization of  its  industrial  sector, especially
the engineering industry, through support for the  implementation of
its  Reform  Action  Program  and  investments  in  industrial
promoting
restructuring; 
(2) 
industrial  development,  through
sustainable 
environmentally 
strengthening  of  environmental  protection  facilities 

assist  Shenyang 

and  management.

to  assist 

and 

to 

(1) 

in- 

The  Project  consists of  the  following  Parts,  subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  may  agree  upon
from time  to  time  to  achieve  such objectives:

Part A: 

Implementation  Support  for the Reform Action Program

Strengthening  of  the  capacity  for  implementation  of  key

aspects  of  the  Reform Action Program,  through  the:

provision  of  training  to  government  officials 

in  economics,
international  trade  and  other  reform-related

1. 
finance,  accounting, 
topics,  within and outside  China;

development  of  an  information  network  for  labor  market
2. 
information and provision of  training to  employment  services  staff
in labor market and management  topics;

provision  of  training  to  industrial  safety  inspectors  and

3. 
enterprise  staff  in industrial  safety inspection;

carrying  out  of  a  program  to  facilitate  mergers  and
4. 
acquisitions  of  enterprises  consisting  of  simplification  of
administrative  procedures  therefor,  development  of  marketing
strategies,  provision  of  training  to  staff  of  the  Property Rights
Transaction  Center  in  Shenyang  and  development  of  an  information
system;

carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strength  the  organization  and
5. 
management  of  the  State  Assets  Management  Bureau  and  State  Assets
Management Company in Shenyang, including the provision of  training
to  staff  thereof;  and

- 18  -

carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the  teaching
6. 
capabilities  of  faculty  of  Shenyang  College  of  Economics  and
Finance, including  the provision of  overseas training and exchange
programs.

Part B: 

Industrial Restructuring

Carrying  out  of  a  program  of  physical  and  management

1. 
to  modernize 
restructuring  of 
processes  and establish an effective management  system, including:

rationalize

facilities, 

SMTCL 

(a)  construction  and  equipping  of  specialized  and  assembly

shops;

(b)  replacement  of  existing  foundries  with  a  modern,

environmentally  acceptably foundry;

(c)  acquisition  and  development  of  advanced  technology  for

product design and development;

(d) disposition of  assets;

(e) reduction of  workforce;  and

(f)  training of  staff  and management  in management,  product

design, operations  and language capabilities.

of 

Financing 

2. 
restructuring  projects  of 
through  Sub-loans  to: 
(b) private enterprises.

specific 

modernization 
industrial  enterprises 

and 

industrial
in  Shenyang,

(a)  enterprises  of  any  form  of  ownership;  and 

-

Part C: 

Environmental  Protection

Establishment,  construction  and  equipping  of  a  municipal
1. 
hazardous
hazardous  waste  treatment  facility 
waste,  including  a  landfill,  and  treatment,  collection  and
transportation  facilities.

to  dispose  of  and  treat 

Development  and  introduction  of  a  suitable  structure  and
treatment  and  disposal  of

for  the  collection, 

2. 
levels  of  tariffs 
hazardous wastes.

- 19  -

Establishment  of  an  industrial  effluent  water  quality
3. 
monitoring  network,  through  construction  and  equipping  of  monitoring
stations, monitoring facilities  and  testing facilities.

Strengthening  of  the  capacity  of  Shenyang  Environmental
4. 
Protection  Bureau,  through  development  of  an  environmental
management  information  system,  a  central  hazardous  waste  laboratory
and a  training center,  and provision  of  consultants'  services  and
training in monitoring, research, planning and management.

The  Project  is  expected  to  be  completed  by  December  31,  2000.

- 20  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

Payment  of  Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date  Payment Due 

January 15,  2000 
July 15,  2000 
January  15,  2001 
July 15,  2001 
January 15,  2002 
July  15,  2002 
January 15,  2003 
July 15,  2003 
January 15,  2004 
July 15,  2004 
January 15,  2005 
July 15,  2005 
January 15,  2006 
July 15,  2006 
January 15,  2007 
July 15,  2007 
January  15,  2008 
July 15,  2008 
January 15,  2009 
July 15,  2009 
January 15,  2010 
July 15,  2010 
January 15,  2011 
July  15,  2011 
January 15,  2012 
July 15,  2012 
January 15,  2013 
July 15,  2013 
January 15,  2014 
July 15,  2014 

3,785,000
3,895,000
4,005,000
4,115,000
4,230,000
4,350,000
4,475,000
4,600,000
4,730,000
4,865,000
5,000,000
5,140,000
5,285,000
5,435,000
5,590,000
5,745,000
5,910,000
6,075,000
6,245,000
6,425,000
6,605,000
6,790,000
6,980,000
7,180,000
7,380,000
7,590,000
7,805,000
8,025,000
8,250,000
8,495,000

*The  figures  in  this  column represent  the  amount  in  dollars  to  be
the  General
repaid,  except  as  provided 
Conditions.

in  Section  4.04(d)  of 

- 21  -

SCHEDULE  4

Special  Account

1.  For the purposes of  this  Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "eligible 

Categories"  means  Categories  (1), 

(2)

and  (3)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement;

1 

(b) 

to  this 

the  term "eligible expenditures"  means  expenditures  in
respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services  required for
Investment Projects and for Parts A,  B.1 and  C  of  the  Project  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time
to  the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
that
Schedule 
notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraph  2  (b) of  Schedule  1  to
the  Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement,  payments  for
expenditures  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  free-limit
Sub-loans  may  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account  before  the  Bank
shall  have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect
thereof.  Such  expenditures,  however,  shall  qualify  as  eligible
the  Bank  shall  subsequently  authorize  such
expenditures  only  if 
withdrawals;  and

Agreement,  provided,  however, 

(c) 

the 

term 

amount
equivalent to  $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
deposited  in 
Schedule.

"Authorized  Allocation"  means 

(a)  of  this

an 

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively
2. 
for  eligible expenditures  in accordance with the provisions of  this
Schedule.

After the  Bank has  received evidence  satisfactory to it  that
3. 
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to  replenish  the
Special Account  shall be  made as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Borrower
shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a  deposit  or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the  Authorized
the  Bank
Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests, 
shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and

- 22  -

deposit  in  the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the
Borrower  shall have  requested.

(b) 

(i) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
Borrower  shall furnish to  the Bank  requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals as  the Bank  shall  specify.

(ii) 

Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,
the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the
documents  and  other  evidence  required pursuant
to paragraph 4  of  this Schedule  for the payment
or  payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
requested.  On the  basis  of  each  such  request,
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account  and deposit  into
the Special  Account such amount as  the Borrower
shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been
shown  by  said  documents  and  other  evidence 
to
have  been  paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for
eligible  expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by  said
documents  and other evidence.

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
4. 
Account,  the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents  and  other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding 
Schedule,  the  Bank  shall not  be required  to  make  further  deposits
into the Special Account:

the  provisions  of  paragraph 

3  of 

this

(a) if,  at any time,  the Bank shall have  determined that  all
from  the
further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly 
Loan Account  in accordance with the provisions  of Article V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph 
Agreement;  or

(a)  of  Section  2.02  of 

this

unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special

(b) once  the  total 

- 23  -

commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant  to Section 5.02 of  the
General  Conditions  with  respect  to  the  Project,  shall  equal  the
equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the  Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal  from the Loan Account  of the  remaining
Categories
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible 
shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to
and
the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after 
to the  extent that the Bank shall have been  satisfied that  all  such
amounts  remaining  on deposit  in the  Special  Account as  of  the  date
of  such  notice  will  be  utilized 
expenditures.

in  making  payments  for  eligible

6.  (a)  If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
(i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure
payment  out  of  the  Special  Account: 
or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this
by  the  evideace  furnished  to  the
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified 
Bank, the  Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice  from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the  Bank may request;  or
the  Bank  shall  so
(B)  deposit  into  the  Special  Account 
request, refund to  the Bank) an amount  equal  to  the amount of  such
Unless
payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified. 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank  into
the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until  the Borrower  has provided
such evidence  or made such deposit or refund, as  the  case  may be.

(or,  . if 

If 

(b) 

the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
amount  outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not be  required  to
the  Borrower
cover  further  payments 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the  Bank  such
outstanding  amount.

expenditures, 

for  eligible 

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to  the  Bank, refund  to the
Bank  all  or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit  in  the  Special
Account.

(d)  Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)
and  (c) of  this  Schedule shall  be credited  to the Loan Account  for
subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
the  General
relevant  provisions  of 
Conditions.

Agreement, 

including 

this 

- 24  -

SCHEDULE 5

Modifications of the  General  Conditions

For purposes of  this Agreement,  the provisions  of the General

Conditions  are modified as follows:

(1)  The  last sentence  of  Section 3.02  is  deleted.

(2)  The  following subparagraph is  added to  Section 2.01:

"21. 

The  term  'Financial  Intermediaries  Project
Agreement'  has  the  meaning  set  forth  in  paragraph  (f)  of
Section 1.02  of  the Loan Agreement."

(3) 

The  words  "the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  and
the  Guarantor,  terminate  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make
withdrawals  with  respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving  of  such
notice,  such  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  cancelled"  set  forth  at  the
end  of  Section  6.03  are  deleted  and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:

(a)  or 

"or  (e)  by  the  date  specified  in  subparagraph  3(b)  of
Schedule  1 to  the  Financial  Intermediaries  Project  Agreement,
the Bank  shall,  in respect  of  any portion of  the  Loan:
(i) have  received  no  applications  or  requests  permitted  under
(ii) 
have
subparagraphs 
the  Bank  may,  by
denied  any  such  applications  or  requests, 
notice  to  the Borrower  and Guarantor,  terminate  the right  to
submit  such applications or approvals or  to make withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account,  as  the  case  may  be,  with  respect  to
such  amount  or  portion  of  the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving  of  such
notice,  such  amount  or  portion  of  the  Loan  shall  be
cancelled."

(b)  of  said  paragraph;  or 

- 25 

-

SCHEDULE  6

Single Currency LIBOR Determination

Single  Currency  LIBOR  for  any  Interest  Period  shall  be  the
1. 
for  deposits  in  dollars  for  a  period  of  six  months
offered  rate 
which  appears  on  the  display  designated  as  page  "3750"  on  the
Telerate  monitor  (or  such  other  page  or  service  as  may  replace  it
for  the  purpose  of  displaying  London  interbank  offered  rates  of
major  banks  for  dollars  deposits),  as  of  11:00  a.m.  (London  time)  on
the second day on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open
for business  in  London prior  to  the  relevant  January 15  or  July 15
(the Interest  Determination Date).

If 

such  rate 

does  not  appear  on  the  Telerate  monitor  or  on
2. 
such service  as  may replace  it,  the Bank  shall  request  the  London
offices  of  four  major  banks  to  provide  the  Bank  with  the  rate  at
which deposits in dollars are offered by such banks on the  Interest
Determination Date to leading banks  in  the London interbank market
for a period of  six months ending on  the  last day of  such  Interest
Period.  Single  Currency  LIBOR  for  such  Interest  Period  shall  be  the
arithmetic  mean  (rounded upwards  if necessary to  the  fifth  decimal
place)  of  such offered quotations  as determined by the  Bank.

If  not  more  than one major  bank provides  the Bank  with such
3. 
quotations under paragraph  2 above,  Single Currency LIBOR shall  be
arithmetic mean  (rounded upwards  if necessary  to  the  fifth decimal
place)  determined by the  Bank of  the rates  quoted by at  least  two
major  banks  in New York  City selected  by the  Bank on  the  Interest
Determination  Date for  loans  in  dollars  to  leading  European  banks
for a period of  six months  ending on the  last day of  such  Interest
fewer  than  two  of  the  banks  so  sel-cted  are  quoting  such
Period.  If 
rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the  single currency in effect
for the  last preceding Interest  Period.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby  certify  that  the foregoing  is  a  true copy  of
the  original  in  the  archives of the  International  Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

FOR  SECRETARY

