LOAN NUMBER 3728 TU

Loan  Agreement

(Privatization Implementation Assistance
and  Social Safety Net Project)

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT 

-

Dated 

4, 

1994

LOAN  NUMBER  3728  TU

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated 

,  1994,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
TURKEY  (the Borrower) and INTERVATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank).

/<2 

WHEREAS  (A) the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to  the
feasibility and priority  of  the  Project described  in  Schedule  2 to
this  Agreement,  has  requested  the  Bank  to  assist  in  the  financing  of
the  Project;

(B)  Part  A  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  the  Public
Participation  Administration  (PPA)  with  the  Borrower's  assistance
and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make  available  to
PPA  a  portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as  provided  in  this
Agreement;

(C)  Parts  B, C, and E of  the Project will be carried  out by
the  Borrower  through  its  Undersecretariat  of  the  Treasury  and
Foreign Trade  (the Treasury);

(D)  Part  D  of 

the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  the
Borrower  through  its  Undersecretariat  of  the  State  Planning
Organization  (the SPO);  and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed,  on the  basis,  inter alia, of  the
foregoing, 
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and
conditions set  forth in this Agreement and in  the Project Agreement
of  even  date herewith between the  Bank and PPA;

NOW THEREFORE  the  parties hereto  hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions;  Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  "General Conditions Applicable  to Loan  and
Guarantee Agreements"  of  the  Bank, dated  January  1, 1985,  with the
modifications  set  forth  below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral  part of  this  Agreement:

(a)  The  last  sentence  of  Section 3.02  is  deleted.

-2-

(b) 

In  Section  6.02,  sub-paragraph 

(k) 

is  re-lettered  as

sub-paragraph  (1) and a new  sub-paragraph (k) is  added  to  read:

"(k)  An  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen  under
which  any  further  withdrawals  under  the  Loan  would  be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the  Bank's Articles  of Agreement."

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several terms defined in the General Conditions  and in the Preamble
to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and
the  following additional  terms  have  the  following meanings:

(a) 

"Project Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank
and  the Public Participation Administration  (the PPA) of  even date
herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such
term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  the
Proj ect  Agreement;

(b) 

"PPA" means  the Public  Participation Administration of
the  Borrower,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  Law  No.  2983
(1984),  Law  No.  3291  (1986)  and  Decree  Law  No.  414  (1990)
(Statutes),  as  the  same may  have been  amended  to  the  date of  this
Agreement;

(c) 

"Subsidiary  Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered  into  by  the  Borrower  and  the  PPA  pursuant  to  Section  3.03  of
this  Agreement,  including  any  amendments  to  such  agreement  as  may  be
made  from time  to  time;

(d)  "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project
preparation advance  granted  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to
an  exchange of  letters  dated December  6, 1993  and  January  3, 1994
between the  Borrower  and  the Bank;

(e) 

"SOE"  means  an  enterprise  established,  owned  and
operated by the  Borrower  pursuant to Decree Law No.  233  (1984),  as
the  same may have  been amended to  the  date of  this  Agreement;

(f) 

"IIBK" means  the  Turkish  Employment  Organization  of  the

Borrower's Ministry  of Labor and  Social Security;

(g)  "KOSGEB"  means  the  Small  and  Medium  Industry  Development
Organization of  the  Borrower's Ministry of  Industry and  Commerce;

(h) 

the  geographic  area  of  the
Borrower's  territory  delimited  by  the  boundaries  of  the  provinces  of
Bartin and  Zonguldak;

"Zonguldak  Region"  means 

(i)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  beginning

January  1 and  ending December  31;  and

(j)  "Special  Account"  means  any  account  referred  to 

in

Section 2.02  (b) and  (c) of  this Agreement.

-

3  -

ARTICLE  II

The Loan

Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend  to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate  value  equivalent  to
the amount  of  one hundred million dollars  ($100,000,000),  being the
sum  of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  with  each  withdrawal
valued by  the Bank as  of  the  date of  such withdrawal.

Section  2.02.  (a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from

the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so
agree, to  be made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and
services  required  for  the Project described  in  Schedule  2 to  this
Agreement and to  be  financed  out  of  the proceeds  of  the  Loan.

(b)  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  Part A of  the
Project,  cause  the  PPA  to  open  and  maintain  in  a  freely  convertible
currency  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  a  special  account  (Special  Account
A) 
in  a  commercial  bank  or  the  Central  Bank  of  the  Borrower  on  terms
and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  appropriate
protection  against  set-off,  seizure  or  attachment.  Deposits  into,
and payments  out  of,  Special Account A shall be made in accordance
with the  provisions of  Schedule  6 to  this  Agreement.

(c)  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  Parts  B, C, D
and  E  of  the  Project,  open  and  maintain 
in  a  freely  convertible
currency  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  a  special  account  (Special  Account
B) in a commercial bank or its  Central Bank on terms  and conditions
satisfactory  to  the Bank, including  appropriate protection against
set-off,  seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments  out of,
Special  Account  B  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule 6 to  this Agreement.

-4-

(d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective Date,  the Bank shall,  on
behalf of  the  Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan Account  and  pay  to
itself  the  amount  required  to  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the
Project  Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and  outstanding  as  of  such
date and to pay all unpaid charges  thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of  the  authorized amount  of  the  Project  Preparation Advance  shall
thereupon be  cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,  1998 or such
later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly
notify  the Borrower  of  such later  date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment
charge  at  the  rate of  three-fourths  of one percent  (3/4 of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

Section  2.05. 

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus  one-half  of  one  percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On  each of  the
the  Borrower
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, 
shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
during  the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
applicable  during  such Interest Period.

(b)  As  soon as  practicable  after  the  end of  each Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings  determined  in respect of  such  Semester.

(c)  For the purposes  of  this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

"Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period
ending  on  the  date  immediately  preceding  each
date  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this  Agreement  is  signed.

"Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,
as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and
expressed  as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the
outstanding  borrowings  of  the  Bank  drawn  down
after  June  30,  1982,  excluding  such  borrowings
or  portions  thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to

- 5-

fund:  (A) the Bank's  investments;  and  (B) loans
which  may  be  made  by  the  Bank  after  July  1,  1989
bearing  interest  rates  determined  otherwise  than
as  provided in paragraph (a) of  this  Section.

(iii) 

"Semester"  means  the  first 
second  six months  of  a calendar year.

six  months  or  the

(d)  On  such  date  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  no  less  than  six
(b)  and  (c) (iii) of

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this  Section shall  be amended  to  read as  follows:

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal amount  of  the Loan withdrawn and  outstanding
from time  to  time, at  a rate  for each Quarter equal to
the Cost  of Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect
of  the preceding Quarter,  plus  one-half of  one percent
(1/2 of  1%).  On each  of the  dates  specified  in  Section
2.06  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  pay  interest
accrued  on the principal  amount  outstanding during the
preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rates
applicable  during  such Interest Period."

"(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the  Borrower of the
Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of
such Quarter."

"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter' means  a three-month period
commencing  on  January  1,  April  1,  July  1  or  October  1 in
a calendar year."

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually  on April  1 and  October  1 in each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of
the Loan in  accordance with the  amortization schedule  set  forth in
Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

Section  2.08.  The  PPA  is  designated  as  representative  of  the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required  or  permitted
to  be  taken  under  the  provisions  of  Section  2.02  (b) of  this
Agreement.

- 6  -

ARTICLE III

Execution of  the  Project

its 

Section  3.01.  The  Borrower  declares 

commitment  to  the
to  this
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 
Agreement,  and, to  this end  shall carry  out,  through the Treasury,
Parts  B,  C  and  E  of  the  Project  and  shall  carry  out,  through  the
SPO,  Part  D  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in
conformity with appropriate administrative,  financial  and economic
practices,  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,
facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required  for  such  Parts  of
the  Project,  including  annual  budgetary  provisions  in  an  amount  and
on a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.

Section  3.02.  Without limitation  or  restriction upon  any  of
its  other obligations  under the  Loan Agreement, the  Borrower shall
cause  the  PPA  to  perform  all  its  obligations  set  forth  in  the
Project  Agreement,  the  Subsidiary  Project  Agreement  and  the
Statutes,  shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including  the
provision  of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources,
such
to  enable 
necessary  or  appropriate 
obligations,  and  shall  not  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action
which would prevent  or interfere with such performance.

to  perform 

the  PPA 

the  Borrower  shall  enter 

Section 3.03.  (a) For purposes  of  carrying  out Part A of  the
into  a  subsidiary  project
Project, 
agreement,  satisfactory to  the Bank, with the PPA, whereby the  PPA
shall be appointed executing agent of  the Borrower for  carrying out
such  activities  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  as  shall  have  been
specified therein, including, inter alia:

(i) 

(ii) 

the  carrying  out  by  the  PPA  of  Part  A  of  the
Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in
administrative,
conformity  with  appropriate 
financial  and  commercial  practices;

the carrying  out  by the  PPA of  the  procurement
and  related  accounting  for  the  goods  and
consultants'  services  required  for  Part  A  of  the
Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds
of  the Loan;  and

(iii) 

including
the  utilization  of  funds  by  the  PPA, 
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  provided  by  the

-

7  -

Borrower,  required  for  the  support  of  the
operation  of  the  PPA  undertaken  in  accordance
with subparagraphs  (i) and  (ii)  of this Section.

in 
the  Borrower  and 

(b)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the
such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the
Subsidiary  Project  Agreement 
the
the  Bank, 
interests  of 
provisions of this Agreement,  and to accomplish the purposes of  the
Loan,  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Subsidiary  Project  Agreement  or  any
provision thereof.

to  comply  with 

Section  3.0A.  Without 

the  provisions  of
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  and  except  as  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts  B,  C,
D  and  E  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Implementation  Program
set  forth in Schedule  5 to  this Agreement.

limitation  upon 

Section  3.05.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement  of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services  required  for
Parts  B, C, D  and  E  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule
4 to  this  Agreement.

Section 3.06.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree  that  the
obligations  set  forth in Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and
9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods
and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance
in  respect  of  Part  A  of  the
and  land  acquisition,  respectively) 
Project  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  PPA  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of
the  Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial and  Other Covenants

Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall,  through  the  Treasury  and
the  SPO,  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  records  and  accounts
adequate to  reflect  in  accordance with  sound  accounting  practices
the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of  Parts  B, C,
D  and  E  of  the  Project  of  the  departments  or  agencies  of  the
Borrower  responsible  for  carrying  out  the  Project  or  any  part
thereof.

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a) of  this  Section  including  those
for  its  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal  year
audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate  auditing
principles  consistently applied, by  independent
auditors  acceptable to  the Bank;

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in
any  case  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end
of  each  such year, the  report  of  such audit  by
said  auditors,  of  such scope  and  in  such detail
as  the  Bank  shall  have  reasonably  requested;  and

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information
concerning  said  records  and  accounts  and  the
audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to
time  reasonably request.

(c)  For all expenditures with respect  to which withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure, the Borrower  shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained,  in
accordance  with  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,
such
records 
expenditures;

reflecting 

accounts 

and 

retain,  until at  least  one  year after  the  Bank
has  received  the  audit  report  for  the  fiscal
year  in which the  last withdrawal from the Loan
Account  or  payment  out  of  its  Special  Account
was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
evidencing such  expenditures;

(iii) 

enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine
such records;  and

(iv) 

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included  in  the  annual  audit  referred  to  in
paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the
report  of  such  audit  contains  a  separate  opinion
by  said auditors  as to whether the statements  of

- 9  -

expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal  year,
together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can be
relied upon to  support  the related withdrawals.

Section  4.02.  The Borrower  shall:

(a)  by  October  31  of  each  year  submit  to  the  Bank  for  review
and  comment  a  proposed  work  program  for  the  carrying  out  of  Parts  B,
C, D and E of  the Project  during  the  following calendar year;  and

(b)  by  November  30  of  each  year,  submit  evidence  to  the  Bank
that  said  work  program,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been  duly
approved  by  all appropriate  action.

Section  4.03.  The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  by  October  31,
together  with  the  Bank,  a  comprehensive  mid-term  review  of
1995, 
implementation  of  the  Project  on  the  basis  of  criteria  satisfactory
to  the Bank.

Section  4.04.  The  Borrower  shall  prepare,  through  the  Treasury
and  the  SPO,  and furnish to  the Bank detailed  quarterly reports  on
the  execution  and  operation  of  Parts B, C, D and  E of  the  Project
and  on  other  matters,  pursuant 
to  Section  9.07  of  the  General
Conditions,  of  a scop3  and  within a timetable  satisfactory to  the
Bank.

ARTICLE V

Remedies  of  the Bank

Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (1) of  the  General

Conditions,  the following  additional events  are  specified:

(a)  The  PPA  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under  the  Project  Agreement  or  the  Subsidiary  Project
Agreement.

(b)  As  a  result  of  events  which  have  occurred  after  the  date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
improbable  that  the  PPA  will  be  able  to  perform
which  shall  make  it 
its 
the  Project  Agreement  or  the  Subsidiary
Project Agreement.

obligations  under 

- 10 

-

(c) 

The  Statutes  of 

the  PPA  shall  have  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially
its
and  adversely 
obligations  under  the  Project  Agreement  or  the  Subsidiary  Project
Agreement.

to  perform  any  of 

the  ability  of 

the  PPA 

(d)  The  Borrower  or  any  other  authority  having  jurisdiction
shall  have  taken  any  action  for  the  dissolution  or  disestablishment
of  the PPA or for  the suspension of  its  operations.

Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01 

(h)  of  the  General

Conditions,  the  following  additional events  are  specified:

(a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01  of
this Agreement shall  occur and shall continue  for a period of  sixty
(60)  days  after notice thereof  shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower;  and

(b)  any  event  specified  in  paragraphs 

Section 5.01  of  this Agreement shall  occur.

(b), 

(c)  and 

(d) 

of

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date;  Termination

Section  6.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional
conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the
meaning of  Section  12.01  (c) of  the General Conditions:

(a)  the Subsidiary Project Agreement has  been concluded by
the  Borrower  and  the  PPA,  respectively,  by  all  necessary
governmental and  corporate  action;

(b)  the  Borrower  has  appointed  consultants  for  debt

management and labor  adjustment services;

(c)  the  PPA  has  appointed  consultants  for  in-house  strategic
planning,  legal  advisory  services  and  the  public  information
program;  and

(d)  the PPA has  concluded  contracts  for  financial  advisory

services  for  the privatization of  two  SOEs.

-

11  -

Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional
(c)  of  the  General
matters,  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.02 
Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be
furnished to the  Bank:

(a) 

that the  Project Agreement has  been duly  authorized or
ratified  by  the  PPA  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  PPA  in
accordance with its  terms;  and

(b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Project  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized  or  ratified by  the  Borrower  and  the  PPA, respectively,
and  is  legally binding  upon the Borrower  and the  PPA in  accordance
with its  terms.

Section  6.03.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement  is hereby specified  for  the purposes  of  Section  12.04  of
the General  Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of  the Borrower;  Addresses

Section  7.01.  Except  as  provided 

in  Section  2.08  of  this
Agreement,  the  Undersecretariat  of  the  Treasury  and  Foreign  Trade  of
the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the
purposes  of  Section 11.03  of  the General Conditions.

Section 7.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the

purposes of  Section  11.01  of  the  General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Basbakanlik Hazine Ve  Dis  Ticaret
Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek-Ankara
Republic  of  Turkey

Cable  address: 

Telex:

MALIYE-HAZINE 

821-42285  (MLYE-TR)  or
821-42689  (ANK-TR)

- 12  -

For the  Bank:

International Bank for

Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States  of  America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (RCA)

82987  (FTCC)
64145  (WUI) or

197688  (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly  authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be
signed  in  their  respective  names  in  the  District  of  Columbia,  United
States  of America, as  of  the  day  and year  first  above written.

REPUBLIC  OF  TURKEY

'uthorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Regional  Vice  President
Europe  and Central Asia

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal of  the Proceeds  of  the  Loan

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
1. 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  for  items  so to  be  financed  in  each Category:

Amount  of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to  be Financed

Category 

(1) Equipment,

materials
and  related
services:

(a)  Part A of 

the Project 
(except 
for plant 
relocation 
or  recon- 
figuration) 

(b)  Plant relo- 

cation or 
reconfigura- 
tion under 
the Project 

(c)  Parts B, C 

and E  of 
the  Project 

(d)  Part D of 

the Project 

400,000)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
) 
1,600,000) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
400,000) 

)
)

50,000)
)

100%  of  local
expenditures,
100%  of  local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)  and  90%  of
local expenditures
for  other  items
procured locally

-

14  -

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

(2) (a)  Consultants' 

43,000,000 

100%

Category 

services,  training
and  promotion
services  under
Part A of the
Project

(b)  Consultants' 
services,
training  and
study  tours
under Parts  B,
C and E of
the  Project

(c)  Consultants' 
services,
training  and
study  tours
under Part  D
of  the Project

(3) Media time  and 

space under Part A 
of  the Project

(4) Labor  adjustment 
services  under
Part C.2  of
the  Project

(5) Refunding of 
Project 
Preparation 
Advance 

22,300,000 

100%

2,000,000 

100%

8,750,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures

11,000,000 

60%

2,000,000 

Amounts  due
pursuant to
Section 2.02  (d)
of  this Agreement

(6) Unallocated 

8,500,000

TOTAL 

100,000,000

-

15  -

2. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule:

(a)  the  term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures 

in
the  currency  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for
goods  or  services  supplied  from the  territory of  any  country other
than that  of  the  Borrower;  and

(b) 

the  term  "local  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the
currency of the Borrower  or  for goods  or  services  supplied from the
territory  of  the Borrower.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  I  above,  no

3. 
withdrawals  shall be made  in respect of:

(a)  payments  made  for  expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  to
exceed  $7,000,600,  may  be made  in  respect  of  Categories  (1),  (2),
and  (4)  on  account  of  payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that
(3) 
date but  after October 31,  1993;  and

(b)  payments  made  under  Category  (4)  of  this  Schedule  unless

they  are  in accordance with criteria  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Bank may require withdrawals  from the Loan Account  to  be
4. 
made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures
under  contracts  for  goods  and  services  not  exceeding  $100,000
equivalent,  under  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Bank  shall
specify by notice  to  the  Borrower.

- 16 

-

SCHEDULE  2

Description  of  the  Project

The objectives  of  the  Project  are:  (i) to promote  efficiency
and  productivity  in  the  economy  by  facilitating  the  further
to  help  ensure  that
development  of  Turkey's  private  sector; 
privatization is  implemented in a transparent and  efficient manner,
to  accelerate  the  privatization process  and  to  lay  the basis  for  a
sustained divestiture  and  fiscal contraction process;  and  (iii)  to
alleviate  the  adverse  impact  of  SOE  downsizing  and divestiture  on
displaced workers  and  their  families  by  integrating  social  safety
net  measures,  including  labor  adjustment  programs,  into  the
divestiture process.

(ii) 

The Project  consists  of  the  following  parts,  subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank may  agree  upon
from time to  time  to  achieve  such  objectives:

Part A: 

Privatization Program

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  PPA  to  carry  out  the
Borrower's  privatization  program  through  the  provision  of  technical
assistance  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  specific
privatization  transactions,  the  assessment  of  environmental
liabilities  and  the  assessment  of  plant  relocation  or  recon-
figuration,  as  necessary;  the  provision  of  training  and  operational
support  systems;  and  carrying  out  a public  information  campaign to
the  Borrower's  privatization  program  and  broaden  public
promote 
support  for  said program.

Part  B: 

Institutional Strengthening

Strengthening  of  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower to  manage  the
debt  liabilities 
of  the  SOEs  to  be  privatized  and  enhancing  the
financial  discipline  of  the  non-privatized  SOEs  through  the
provision  of  technical  assistance  and  training  to  staff  of  the
Treasury.

Part  C: 

Social  Safety  Net

1. 
Support  of  the  social safety net,  including labor  adjustment
services,  to  assist  the  Borrower  and  SOEs  to  determine  the  extent  of
labor  displacement and  to  identify  the services needed.

- 17  -

Provision of  labor  adjustment  services,  through IIBK, KOSGEB

2. 
and  other  selected  agencies  agreed by  the Borrower and  the Bank.

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Treasury  to  administer  funds

3. 
for  labor  adjustment  services.

Carrying out  of  studies  to  analyze options  for  the  reform of
4. 
the  social  security/pension  systems,  and  develop  a  unique  identifier
system for  tax  and  social  purposes.

Part D: 

Zonguldak Region

Preparation of  a regional  development  plan for  the  Zonguldak

Region and  feasibility  studies  for  specific  projects.

Part E: 

Infrastructure Studies

Carrying out  of  a study for  the  development  of  the legal  and

1. 
regulatory  framework for  the  telecommunications  sector.

Carrying  out  of  a  study  to  increase  private 

2. 
sector
participation  in  infrastructure sectors  agreed by  the Borrower  and
the  Bank.

The  Project  is  expected  to  be  completed  by  December  31,  1997.

-

18  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

Date  Payment Due 

Payment  of  Principal
(expressed in  dollars)*

On  each April  1 and October  1

beginning October  1, 1999
through October  1, 2010 

On April 1, 2011 

4,165,000

4,205,000

* 

The  figures 
this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents
determined  as  of  the  respective  dates  of  withdrawal.  See
General Conditions,  Sections  3.04  and  4.03.

in 

-

19 

-

Premiums  on Prepayment

Pursuant  to  Section 3.04  (b) of  the  General Conditions,  the
premium  payable  on  the  principal  amount  of  any  maturity  of  the  Loan
to be prepaid shall  be the percentage  specified for the  applicable
time  of  prepayment  below:

Time  of  Prepayment 

Premium

The  interest  rate  (expressed
as  a  percentage  per  annum)
applicable to  the  Loan on  the
day  of  prepayment  multiplied
by:

Not more than three years 
before maturity

More  than three years  but 

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but 

not more than 11  years
before maturity

More than  11  years but not 

more than  15  years
before maturity

More than  15  years before 

maturity

0.18

0.35

0.65

0.88

1.00

- 20  -

SCHEDULE  4

Procurement  and Consultants'  Services

Section I.  Procurement  of  Goods

Part A: 

International Competitive Biddinp

Except  as  provided  in Part  C hereof, goods  shall  be procured
1. 
in  accordance  with  procedures  consistent
under  contracts  awarded 
with  those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the  "Guidelines  for
Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank
in  May  1992  (the  Guidelines).  For  fixed-price  contracts,  the
invitation  to  bid  referred  to  in  paragraph  2.13  of  the  Guidelines
shall  provide  that,  when  contract  award  is  delayed  beyond  the
original  bid  validity  period,  the  successful  bidder's  bid  price  will
be  increased for  each week of  delay by  two predisclosed  correction
factors,  acceptable  to  the  Bank, one  to  be  applied to  all  foreign
currency  components  and  the  other  to  the  local  currency  component  of
the  bid price. Such an  increase  shall not be taken  into  account  in
the  bid evaluation.

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of
2. 
this  Section  I, the  Borrower  shall  use  the  relevant  standard  bidding
documents  issued  by  the  Bank,  with  such  modifications  thereto  as  the
Bank  shall  have  agreed  to  be  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the
Program.  Where  no  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  have  been
issued by  the  Bank, the Borrower  shall use  bidding documents  based
on  other  international  recognized  standard  forms  agreed  with  the
Bank.

Part B: 

Preference  for  Domestic Manufacturers

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
described  in Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured in  Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and  subject to,
the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and
paragraphs  1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: 

Other  Procurement  Procedures

Icems  or  groups  of  items  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  more  than
1. 
the  equivalent  of  $100,000  per  contract  and  less  than  the  equivalent
of  $300,000  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  equivalent  to
$500,000,  may be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of

- 21 

-

comparison  of  price  quotations  obtained  from  at  least  three
suppliers  from  at  least  three  different  countries  eligible  under  the
Guidelines,  in  accordance with procedures  acceptable  to the  Bank.

Items  or  groups  of  items  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the
2. 
equivalent  of  $100,000  or  less  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate
to  $400,000,  may  be  procured  under  contracts
amount  equivalent 
awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of  price  quotations  obtained  from
at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank.

Part D: 

Review by  the Bank of  Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations  to bid  and of proposed awards  and  final

1. 
contracts:

(a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  goods  estimated  to
cost  the  equivalent  of  $300,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth  in
paragraphs  2  and  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply.
Where payments  for  such contract  are to  be made out  of  the Special
Account, such  procedures  shall  be  modified to  ensure  that  the  two
conformed  copies  of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
prior  tu  the  making  of  the  first 
payment  out  of  Special  Account  B  in
respect  of such  contract.

(b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  the
preceding  paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  3  and  4
of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply.  Where  payments  for  such
contract  are  to  be made out  of  Special Account  B, said procedures
shall  be  modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  the
contract  together  with  the  other  information  required  to  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  3  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence  to  be  furnished
pursuant  to paragraph 4 of  Schedule 6 to  this Agreement.

(c)  The provisions  of the preceding  subparagraph  (b) shall
not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account  are to  be made on the basis  of  statements of  expenditure.

2. 
paragraph 4 of  Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines.

The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes  of

- 22  -

Section II.  Employment  of  Consultants

the  Bank  on 

the  basis  of 

In  order  to  assist  the Borrower  in carrying  out  the Project,
1. 
the  Borrower  shall  employ  financial  and  management  consultants  whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment
shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be
selected  in  accordance with principles  and procedures  satisfactory
for  the  Use  of
to 
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World  Bank  as
Executing  Agency"  published  by  the  Bank  in  August  1981.  For  complex,
time-based  assignments,  the Borrower  shall  employ  such consultants
under  contracts  using  the  standard  form  of  contract  for  consultants'
services  issued by the  Bank, with such modifications  as  shall have
been  agreed  by  the  Bank.  Where  no  relevant  standard  contract
documents  have  been  issued  by  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  use  other
standard  forms  agreed with the  Bank.

the  "Guidelines 

2.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,
the  provisions  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  requiring  prior  Bank
selection  procedures,
review  or  approval  of  budgets,  short  lists, 
letters  of  invitation, proposals,  evaluation reports  and  contracts
shall  not  apply  to  contracts  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000
this  exception  to  prior  Bank  review  shall
equivalent  each.  However, 
not  apply  to  the  terms  of  referenre  for  such  contracts  nor  to  the
employment  of  individuals,  to  sinle source  selection  of  firms,  to
assignments  of  a  critical  nature  as  reasonably  determined  by  the
Bank and  to  amendments  of  contracts  raising  the  contract  value to
$100,000  equivalent  or above.

- 23 

-

SCHEDULE  5

Implementation  Program

1. 
The  Borrower shall, by  August  31,  1994,  enter  into protocols
with  IIBK and KOSGEB  pursuant to which IIBK and KOSGEB  shall  carry
out  the  labor  adjustment  services  under Part C.2  of  the  Project  on
the  basis  of  terms  of  reference  and  criteria  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  including,  inter alia:

2. 

The  Borrower shall:

(a)  (i) 

(i) 

the  carrying  out  by IIBK and KOSGEB  of  Part  C.2
of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  admini-
strative,  financial  and  commercial  practices;
and

(ii) 

the  utilization  of  funds  by 
IIBK  and  KOSGEB
provided  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the proceeds  of
the Loan for  such Part C.2  of the  Project.

by  August  31,  1994,  employ  the  consultants
referred to  in Section II  of Schedule  4 to  this
Agreement  to  carry  out  the  social  security
pension  s;udy  under  Part  C.4  of  the  Project  on
the basis  of terms  of reference  satisfactory to
the  Bank;  carry  out  the  initial 
phase  of  such
study  by  March  31,  1995;  and  carry  out  the
second phase  of  such study  by March 31,  1996;

by  September  15,  1994,  employ  the  consultants
referred  to in  Section II  of  Schedule  4 to  this
Agreement  to  carry  out  the  study  on  the  unique
identifier system under  Part  C.4 of  the  Project
on  the basis  of  terms  of  reference  satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  and  carry  out  such  study  by
December 31,  1994;

(ii) 

(iii) 

by  December  31,  1995,  employ  the  consultants
referred to  in  Section II  of  Schedule  4 to  this
Agreement  to  carry  out  the  study  on  the  pre-
paration  of  the  Zonguldak  Regional  Development
Plan  under  Part  D  of  the  Project  on  the  basis  of

- 24  -

(iv) 

(v) 

terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and
by December 31,  1996  carry  out  such  study;

by  August  31,  1994,  employ  the  consultants
referred  to  in  Section II  of  Schedule  4 to  this
Agreement  to  carry  out  the  study  on  the
regulatory  framework for the  telecommunications
section  under  Part  E.1  of  the  Project  on  the
basis  of  terms  of  reference  satisfactory to  the
Bank;  and  by  May  31,  1995,  carry  out  such  study;
and

by  September  30,  1994,  employ  the  consultants
referred to  in  Section II  of  Schedule  4 to  this
Agreement  to  carry  out  the  study  to  increase
private  sector  participation  in  the  infra-
structure  sectors  under Part E.2  of  the Project
on  the basis  of  terms  of  reference  satisfactory
to  the  Bank;  and  by  March 31,  1995,  carry  out
such study;

(b)  not  later  than  two  months  following  the  completion  of
each study  referred  to  in paragraph  (a) above,  furnish to  the  Bank
for  review and comment the results and  recommendations of each such
study;  and

(c)  thereafter,  put  into  effect  the  recommendations  of  each

such study as  agreed with the Bank.

- 25 

-

SCHEDULE  6

Special Accounts

1. 

For the purposes  of  this  Schedule:

(a)  The  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  with  respect  to
set
Special  Account  A,  Categories  (1)(a), 
forth in  the  table  in paragraph 1 of  Schedule  1 to  this Agreement;
and  with rerpect  to  Special Account  B, Categories  (1)(c),  (1)(d),
the  table  in  paragraph  I of
(2)(c)  and 
(2)(b), 
Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

set  forth  in 

(2)(a)  and 

(1)(b), 

(3) 

(4) 

(b)  The term  "Authorized Allocation" means  an amount  to  be
withdrawn  from the Loan Account and  deposited  in a Special Account
pursuant  to  paragraph 3 (a) of  this  Schedule  as  follows:

PPA Special Account A 

$5,000,000 equivalent;

Borrower  Special Account B 

$3,000,000  equivalent.

Payments  out  of  each  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively
2. 
for eligible expenditures  in accordance with the provisions of  this
Schedule.

After  the Bank has  received evidence  satisfactory to  it  that
3. 
a  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to  replenish such
Special Account  shall be made  as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a
deposit or deposits which do not  exceed the  aggregate amount of  the
Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the
Bank shall,  on behalf of  the Borrower or the PPA, withdraw from the
the  respective  Special  Account  such
Loan  Account  and  deposit 
amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower or  the  PPA shall have requested.

in 

(b) 

(i) 

For  replenishment  of  a  Special  Account,  the
Borrower  and  the  PPA  shall  furnish to  the  Bank
requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account
at  such intervals  as  the  Bank shall  specify.

(ii) 

Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,
the  Borrower  or  the  PPA  shall  furnish  to  the

- 26  -

Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required
pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the
payment  or  payments 
in  respect  of  which
replenishment  is 
requested.  On  the  basis  of  each
such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the
Borrower  or  the  PPA,  withdraw  from  the  Loan
Account and  deposit  into  the  respective  Special
Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  or  the  PPA
shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been
shown  by  said  documents  and  other  evidence  to
have  been  paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for
eligible  expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall 
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified 
by  said
documents  and  other  evidence.

4. 
For  each payment  made by  the  Borrower  or  the  PPA  out  of  its
Special Account,  the Borrower or the PPA  shall,  at  such time  as  the
Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents
and  other  evidence  showing  that  such payment was  made  exclusively
for  eligible  expenditures.

5. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule,  the  Bank  shall not  be  required  to  make  further  deposits
into  a Special Account:

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all
further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the
Loan Account  in  accordance with the provisions  of  Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this
Agreement;  or

(b) 

once  the  total 

unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated
to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount  of  any  outstanding
special  commitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02
of  the  General Conditions with respect to  the  Project,  shall  equal
the  equivalent of  twice  the  amount of  the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal 
the  remaining
unwithdrawn amount of  the Loan allocated to  the eligible Categories
shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to
the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after 
and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been  satisfied that  all  such

the  Loan  Account  of 

from 

- 27 

-

amounts  remaining  on deposit  in the Special Account  as  of  the date
of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.

6. 
(a)  If  the  Bank shall have  determined at  any  time that  any
payment  out  of  a  Special  Account: 
(i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure  or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of  this Schedule;
or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the  Bank,  the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the  Bank:  (A) provide or
cause  the PPA  to provide  such additional  evidence  as  the  Bank may
request;  or  (B)  deposit  or  cause  the  PPA  to  deposit  into  the  Special
Account  (or, if  the Bank shall  so request,  refund  or  cause  the PPA
to  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment
or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by  the  Bank  into  the
respective  Special  Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has
provided such evidence or made  such deposit  or  refund  or  cause  the
PPA to provide such evidence or make such deposit or  refund, as  the
case  may be.

(b)  If  the  Bank shall have determined  at  any  time that  any
amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the  Borrower
shall,  promptly upon notice  from the  Bank, refund  or  cause the  PPA
to  refund to  the Bank such  outstanding  amount.

(c)  The  Borrower or  the  PPA may, upon notice  to  the  Bank,

refund  to  the  Bank  all  or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit  in 
Special Account.

its

(d)  Refunds  to  the  Bank made pursuant to paragraphs  6 (a),
(b) and  (c) of  this  Schedule  shall be  credited  to  the  Loan Account
for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  is  a  true copy  of
the  original  in  the archives  of the International  Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

R SECRETAR

