CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3687 CHA

(Telecommunications Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated April 25, 1994

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3687 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1994, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 

of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS the Borrower expects to obtain from the Swedish Board for Investments 

and Technical Support (BITS), a grant in an amount equivalent to one million three 
hundred thousand dollars
($1,300,000) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions 
to be set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BITS; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

 

 

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 
 

"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 

withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and any successor thereto.

any successor thereto.

"MPT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications and 

(c)

"Medium Term Action Program" means the action program to promote  reform 

of the telecommunications sector set out in a letter of September 1993 from the 
Borrower’s Vice Minister of MPT to the Bank.

(d)

"Project Administrations" means the Post and Telecommunications 

Administrations under MPT in the Project Provinces.

(e)

"Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of Jiangsu, 

Heilongjiang and Liaoning.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred fifty million 
dollars ($250,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 

of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 

shall pay interest accrued on the 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 

shall notify the 
of such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 

15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MPT and the Project Administrations with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and 
telecommunications practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices: (i) 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof; and (ii) the consolidated financial condition of the 
telecommunication operating enterprises reporting to the Project Administrations.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

 

Section for 
auditing principles 
acceptable to the Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 

consistently applied, by independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 
 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been approved by the 
Borrower’s State Council.

Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

 

 

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

Telex:

248423 (RCA)
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Li Daoyu

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Nicholas Hope

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be

      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

      (1) Goods                229,400,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)

      (2) Training                 300,000      100%
          and consultants’
          services

      (3) Unallocated           20,300,000
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    250,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, not exceeding 
$1,000,000 equivalent, and
training under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a) in developing a 

modern commercial telecommunications sector, through establishment of market-oriented 
policy, legal and regulatory framework; and (b) in expanding and modernizing the 
telecommunications infrastructure in areas experiencing rapid market development, 
through financing of specific investments.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

PART A:
 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM

Supporting the implementation of the Medium Term Action Program, by:

developing accounting standards for the telecommunications sector, undertaking 

1.
pilot application of such standards in two Project Provinces, and developing an 
implementation plan for
national application;

2.
implementation plan for tariff restructuring;

undertaking a study of telecommunications tariffs and developing an 

3.
 
4.
 
PART B:

developing the regulatory framework for the sector; and

provision of training in respect of the Medium Term Action Program.

LONG DISTANCE AND LOCAL SWITCHING INVESTMENTS

Expanding and improving the long distance fiber optic digital transmission 

1.
networks in China, by: (a) construction of a fiber optic cable of about 2100 
kilometers in North China; and (b)
construction of a fiber optic cable of about 4500 kilometers in South China, including 
construction and equipping of associated facilities.

2.
Expanding and improving local exchange switching capabilities under the Project 
Administrations, by construction and equipping of: (a) about 160,000 lines of digital 
switching equipment in Heilongjiang Province; (b) about 170,000 lines of digital 
switching equipment in Liaoning Province; and (c) about 590,000 lines of digital 
switching equipment in Jiangsu Province, including construction and equipping of 
associated facilities.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due
 
September 15, 1999                          
March 15, 2000                              
September 15, 2000                          
March 15, 2001                              
September 15, 2001                          
March 15, 2002                              
September 15, 2002                          
March 15, 2003                              
September 15, 2003                          
March 15, 2004                              
September 15, 2004                          
March 15, 2005                              
September 15, 2005                          
March 15, 2006                              
September 15, 2006                          
March 15, 2007                              
September 15, 2007                          
March 15, 2008                              
September 15, 2008                          
March 15, 2009                              
September 15, 2009                          
March 15, 2010                             
September 15, 2010                         
March 15, 2011                             
September 15, 2011                         
March 15, 2012                             
September 15, 2012                         
March 15, 2013                             
September 15, 2013                         
March 15, 2014                             
 
____________________________
*
respective 
4.03.

4,675,000
4,850,000
5,030,000
5,215,000
5,410,000
5,610,000
5,815,000
6,035,000
6,260,000
6,490,000
6,730,000
6,980,000
7,240,000
7,510,000
7,790,000
8,080,000
8,380,000
8,690,000
9,010,000
9,345,000
9,695,000
      10,055,000
      10,430,000
      10,815,000
      11,215,000
      11,635,000
      12,065,000
      12,515,000
      12,980,000
      13,450,000

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Premiums on Prepayment

Time of Prepayment

Premium

 

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  

before maturity

More than three years but                  

not more than six years
before maturity

0.15

0.30

More than six years but                    

0.55

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 

0.80

more than 16 years
before maturity

more than 18 years
before maturity

maturity

More than 16 years but not                 

0.90

More than 18 years before                  

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Procurement

International Competitive Bidding

Section I.
 
Part A:
 
1.
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).

Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 

(a)

For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 

2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.

(b)

In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 

Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

Part B:
 

Part C:
 
1.

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 

A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a)

With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 

contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.

2.
to the Guidelines.

The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 

Section II.
 

Consultants’ Services

In order to assist in carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 

through MPT employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For complex, time-based assignments, 
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

1.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1994, employ consultants to assist the 
Borrower in carrying out Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.

The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by June 30, 1995 complete the tariff 

2.
study under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference agreed with 
the Bank; and (b) immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank an 
implementation plan for tariff restructuring taking into account the findings of the 
said study.

3.
The Borrower shall: (a) develop accounting standards under Part A.1 of the 
Project under terms of reference agreed with the Bank; (b) by December 31, 1995, 
undertake pilot application of said standards in two Project Provinces; and (c) 
immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank an implementation plan for 
national application of the said accounting standards taking into account the 
experiences of the pilot applications as aforesaid.

4.
manner satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall carry out the training under Part A.4 of the Project in a 

The Borrower shall monitor various telecommunication performance indicators in 

5.
the Project Provinces and various other provinces and autonomous regions in accordance 
with annual targets agreed with the Bank.

(a) The Borrower shall ensure that the consolidated financial condition of 

6.
telecommunication operating enterprises reporting to each of the Project 
Administrations shall meet the following
financial requirements:

(i)
Administrations 
fiscal year ending on 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the Project 

shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its 
December 31, 1993, funds from internal sources 

equivalent to not less than 40% 
expenditures incurred, or expected to be 
the previous fiscal year and the two next following 
 

of the annual average of its capital 

incurred, for that year, 
fiscal years.

(ii)

Before May 31 in each of its fiscal years, each of the Project 

Administrations 
satisfactory to the Bank, 
set forth in sub-paragraph (i) 
next following fiscal year and shall 
of such review upon its completion.

shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and 
review whether it would meet the requirements 

above in respect of such year and the 

furnish to the Bank a copy 

(iii) If any such review shows that one of the Project Administrations 

meet the requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (i) 

would not 
for its fiscal years 
promptly take all necessary measures (such as 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such 
 

covered by such review, it shall 
adjustments of the 

requirements.

(b)

For the purposes of the requirements in paragraph (a) above:

(i)

The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 

 

between:

connection 
reduction in working 
 

(A)

the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 

fees, surcharges, net non-operating income and any 

capital other than cash; and

(B)

the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 

payments in lieu of 
depreciation and other non-cash 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.

taxes (excluding provision for 

operating charges), debt 
other cash 

(ii)

The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:

(A)

revenues from all sources other than those related to 

 

operations; and

incurred in 
 

between 
at the end of each 
 

(B)

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 

the generation of revenues in (A) above.

(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 

current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 

fiscal year.

(iv)

The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 

than cash 
converted into cash within 
receivable, marketable securities, 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
fiscal year.

twelve months, including accounts 

inventories and pre-paid 

within the next 

(v)

The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 

become due and 
called for payment 
payable, customer advances, debt 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.

payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
within twelve months, including accounts 

service requirements, taxes and 

repayments 
and other charges 
 

of fixed 
related to operations.

(vi)

The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 

(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 

on, debt.

(vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account 
assets, including interest charged to construction, 

(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 

terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 

valuation shall be made on the basis of the 

value, in 
another currency, such 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.

at which such other currency is, 
the purposes of servicing 
basis of a rate of 

7.
 

The Borrower shall:

(a)

by May 31 in each year, commencing May 31, 1994, prepare and furnish to 

the Bank for review, until completion of the Project, a rolling long-term financial 
plan of each of the Project Administrations (including projected income statements, 
sources and uses of funds and balance sheets and the consolidated financial conditions 
of the telecommunications operating enterprises reporting to the Project 
Administrations) covering a period of at least five years; and

(b)

thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on its financial position.

