CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA

(Tianjin Industrial Development Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 2, 1994

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3572 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

Tianjin Municipality has adopted a development program and strategy for 

the industrial sub-sectors of machine tools, construction equipment, electronics 
components, automotive parts and electric motors, dated January 29, 1993;

(C)

Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by Tianjin Municipality and 
Parts A and B.2 of the Project will be carried out by Bank of Communications, Tianjin 
Branch (BOCOM), and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial 
Intermediaries), all with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to Tianjin Municipality the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 

Agreement and in the Tianjin Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Tianjin Municipality and the Financial
Intermediaries Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Financial Intermediaries;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"BOCOM" means the Bank of Communications, Tianjin Branch, an independent 

legal person established and operating under the BOCOM Charter. 

(b)

"BOCOM Charter" means the Charter of the Bank of Communications, a 

national socialist joint-stock financial enterprise primarily under public ownership, 
approved by the People’s Bank of China on March 10, 1987.

(c)

"BOCOM Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures" means the 

Statement of  operating policies and procedures approved by the Directors of BOCOM on 
January 6, 1993, and as revised thereafter with the Bank’s concurrence.

(d)

"Development Program and Strategy" means the development program and 
strategy for the industrial sub-sectors of machine tools, construction equipment, 
electronics components, automotive parts and electric motors, adopted by Tianjin 
Municipality, dated January 29,  1993 and includes any development program and 
strategy for a Project Sub-sector thereafter agreed with the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Tianjin Project Agreement.

(e)

"Financial Intermediaries" means BOCOM and ICBC, collectively, and 

"Financial Intermediary" means any of the Financial Intermediaries. 

(f)

"Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement" means the agreement among 
the Bank and the Financial Intermediaries of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.

(g)
Borrower.

"foreign Currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 

(h)

"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 

a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.

(i)

"ICBC" means the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, a specialized 

banking institution established and operating under the ICBC Charter.

(j)

"ICBC Charter" means the Charter of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of 

China, approved by the State Council on recommendation of the People’s Bank of China 
on November 15, 1989.

(k)

"ICBC Policy Statement" means the policy statement approved by ICBC in 

July 1989, and as revised thereafter with the Bank’s concurrence.

(l)

"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise meeting the criteria set out 
in paragraph 1 (f) to Schedule 1 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, to 
which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.

(m)

"Investment Project" means a specific technological restructuring project 

in a Project sub-sector to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan.

(n)

"Project Sub-sector" means an industrial sub-sector agreed between the 

Bank and Tianjin Municipality pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement.

 

(o)

(p)

"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.

"Tianjin Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 

Tianjin Municipality of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement.

(q)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(r)

"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an 
Investment Project.

(s)

"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 

between the Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries pursuant to Section 
2.02 (a) of the Tianjin Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

(t)

"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by a 
Financial Intermediary or by any one or more Subsidiaries of said Financial 
Intermediary or by said Financial Intermediary and any one or more of its 
Subsidiaries.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:

(i)

amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a 
Intermediary on account of withdrawals made by an 

Financial 
Investment Enterprise under 
of goods and services required for the 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
 

a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost 
Investment Project in respect of 

requested;

(ii)

amounts in respect of interest during construction by an 

under a Sub-loan; and

(iii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 

of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 

Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 

Investment Enterprise 
 

in respect 
Part B of the 
of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one 

percent (1/2  of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower 
outstanding during the preceding Interest 
applicable during such Interest Period."

Period, calculated at the rates 

shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 

shall notify the 
of such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

is replaced 
sentence is replaced 
 

(b), is 
 

its entirety.

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

(i)

in paragraph (a), the term "Interest Period" in the first sentence 

by the term "Quarter" and the word "rate" in the second 

by the word "rates";

(ii)

the term "Semester", whenever it appears in paragraphs (a) and 
replaced by the term "Quarter"; and

(iii) sub-paragraph (c) (iii) replaces the definition of "Semester" in 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 

15 and November 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower shall cause Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries to 
perform all their respective obligations set forth in the Tianjin Project Agreement 
and the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Tianjin Municipality and the 
Financial Intermediaries to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 

(b)

The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to Tianjin 

Municipality on the following principal terms and conditions:  (i) repayment over a 
period not exceeding 20 years, including five years of grace; (ii) interest calculated 
in accordance with Section 2.05 (a) of this Agreement; (iii) commitment charges at the 
rate stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) foreign exchange risk to be 
borne by Tianjin Municipality.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Tianjin 
Project Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively): (a) in respect of Part B.1 
of the Project, shall be carried out by Tianjin Municipality pursuant to Section 2.04 
of the Tianjin Project Agreement; and (b) in respect of Parts A and B.2 of the 
Project, shall be carried out by the Financial Intermediaries pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Financial intermediaries Project Agreement.

Section 3.04. From time to time, at the request of any party, the Borrower shall 

exchange views with the Bank and any Financial Intermediary on the interest rates to 
be charged by each Financial Intermediary in its lending operations in light of its 
cost of funds and profitability and of movements in interest and inflation rates in 
China and internationally.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
made; and

the last withdrawal from 
Account was 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

 

 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
auditing 
auditors acceptable to the 
 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
principles consistently applied, by independent 

Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
audit by said auditors, 
shall have reasonably requested, 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and

months after the end of such year the report of such 

of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 

including a separate opinion by said 

expenditure submitted 

and internal 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

Tianjin Municipality or any Financial Intermediary shall have failed to 

perform any of its obligations under the Tianjin Project Agreement or the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, respectively.

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Tianjin Municipality or any Financial Intermediary will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Tianjin Project  Agreement or the Financial Intermediaries 
Project Agreement, respectively.

(c)

The BOCOM Charter or ICBC Charter or the BOCOM Statement of Operating 

Policies and Procedures or the ICBC Policy Statement shave have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or the financial condition of any Financial Intermediary or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any Financial Intermediary or 
for the suspension of its operations.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

(b)

any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 

General Conditions:

(a)

the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of Tianjin 

Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries;

 

(b)

(c)

the Borrower’s State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and

accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Tianjin Project Agreement.

the project implementation consultants shall have been appointed in 

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Tianjin Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by Tianjin Municipality and is legally binding upon Tianjin Municipality in accordance 
with its terms;

(b)

that the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement has been duly 

authorized or ratified by the Financial Intermediaries, and is legally binding upon 
the Financial Intermediaries in accordance with its terms;

(c)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 

by Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries and are legally binding upon 
Tianjin Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries in accordance with their 
respective terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

 

 

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA),
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Li Daoyu

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                   Amount of
                                   the Loan             % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)       Sub-loans                134,500,000

    (a) interest                                    90% of amounts
        during                                      financed by a
        construction                                Financial
                                                    Intermediary

    (b) other                                       100% of amounts
        expenditures                                disbursed by a
                                                    Financial
                                                    intermediary

(2)    Goods under                  10,520,000      100% of foreign ex-
      Part B.1 of the                               penditures, 100% of
       Project                                      local expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost) and
                                                    75% of local expendi-
                                                    tures for other items
                                                    procured locally

(3)    Consultants’                  4,780,000      100%
      services and
       training under
      Part B.1 of the
      Project

(4)   Staff training                   200,000      100%
      under Part B.2
       of the Project

          TOTAL                    150,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of: (a) a Subloan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 
to the Financial Intermediaries Project
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 31, 1992.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in industrial 
restructuring and to assist Tianjin Municipality in the implementation of its 
Development Program and Strategy, through acceleration of policy and enterprise 
reforms in Project Subsectors, modernization and restructuring of enterprises in the 
Project Sub-sectors based on economic criteria and commercial viability; 
streng-thening related technological infrastructure; improvement and reor-ganization 
of internal enterprise management systems; and diversi-fication and strengthening of 
the financial intermediation process.

The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:
 

Financial Assistance

enterprises in the Project Sub-sectors.

Financing of specific technological restructuring projects through Sub-loans to 

Institutional Support

Part B:
 
1.
provision of consultants’ services, equipment and materials and local and overseas 
training in the areas of design and research, vocational training, management and 
operational training of enterprise management and staff and labor development.

Supporting the overall restructuring of the Project Sub-sectors, through 

2.
program of staff training.

Strengthening the staff capabilities of the Financial Intermediaries through a 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

*        *        *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due
 

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

November 15, 1998                              
May 15, 1999                                   
November 15, 1999                              
May 15, 2000                                   
November 15, 2000                              
May 15, 2001                                   
November 15, 2001                              
May 15, 2002                                   
November 15, 2002                              
May 15, 2003                                   
November 15, 2003                              
May 15, 2004                                   
November 15, 2004                              
May 15, 2005                                   
November 15, 2005                              
May 15, 2006                                   
November 15, 2006                              
May 15, 2007                                   
November 15, 2007                              
May 15, 2008                                   
November 15, 2008                              
May 15, 2009                                   
November 15, 2009                              
May 15, 2010                                   
November 15, 2010                              
May 15, 2011                                   
November 15, 2011                              
May 15, 2012                                   
November 12, 2012                              
May 15, 2013                                   
 
_____________________________
*
respective 
4.03.

Not more than three years                

before maturity

More than three years but                

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but                  

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not               

More than 16 years but not               

more than 16 years
before maturity

more than 18 years
before maturity

2,805,000
2,910,000
3,015,000
3,130,000
3,245,000
3,365,000
3,490,000
3,620,000
3,755,000
3,895,000
4,040,000
4,190,000
4,345,000
4,505,000
4,675,000
4,845,000
5,025,000
5,215,000
5,405,000
5,610,000
5,815,000
6,035,000
6,255,000
6,490,000
6,730,000
6,980,000
7,240,000
7,510,000
7,790,000
8,070,000

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Premiums on Prepayment

Time of Prepayment

 

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

More than 18 years before                

1.00

maturity

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

 1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently 
authorize such withdrawals; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.

Account such amount as the 
been shown by 

the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-ably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 5

Modifications of the General Conditions

For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 

modified as follows:

 

a.

b.

meaning set forth 
 

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01: 

"21. The term ’Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement’ has the 

in paragraph (j) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement."

c.

The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 

terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth 
at the end of Section 6.03 are  deleted and the following is substituted therefor: 

"or (e) by the date specified in subparagraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to the 

Financial 
of any portion of the 
permitted under subparagraphs (a) 
denied any such applications or requests, the 
Borrower and Guarantor, terminate the right to submit such 

Intermediaries Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect 

Loan: (i) have received no applications or requests 

or (b) of said para-graph; or (ii) have 
Bank may, by notice to the 

applications or 

approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case 
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.  Upon the giving of such 

may 

notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

