LOAN NUMBER 3711 CHA

Loan  Agreement

(Shanghai  Environment Project)

PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

R 

1 

,  1994

LOAN NUMBER 3711  CHA

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated 

REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank).

(the  Borrower) 

and 

' 2 

,  1994,  between  PEOPLE'S
INTERNATIONAL  BANK 
FOR

WHEREAS:  (A)  the Borrower,  having satisfied  itself as  to the
feasibility and priority of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement,  has  requested  the  Bank  to  assist 
in  the  financing  of
the Project;

(B) 

the  Municipality  of  Shanghai 

carry  out
the  Project,  or  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out,  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the  Borrower
will  make  available  to  Shanghai  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as  provided
in  this Agreement;  and

(Shanghai) 

shall 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis,  inter alia, of the
foregoing, 
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and
conditions set  forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between  the  Bank and Shanghai;

NOW THEREFORE  the parties  hereto hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I

General  Conditions; Definitions

Section  1.01. The  "General Conditions Applicable  to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank, dated January 1,  1985, with the
modifications  set 
forth below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral  part of  this Agreement:

(a)  The  last  sentence  of  Section 3.02  is  deleted.

In  Section  6.02,  sub-paragraph  (k)  is 
sub-paragraph  (1) and a new sub-paragraph  (k) is  added to  read:

re-lettered 

(b) 

as

"(k)  An  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen
under  which  any  further  withdrawals  under  the
Loan  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of
Article III,  Section 3  of the  Bank's Articles of
Agreement."

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several terms  defined in the General  Conditions and in the  Preamble

-2-

to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and
the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following meanings:

(a) 

"Category"  means  a  withdrawal  category  set  forth  in 

the

table  in paragraph 1 of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement.

(b) 

"Fiscal  Year"  means 

a  calendar  year  commencing  on

January 1  and ending on  December 31.

(c) 

"Implementing  Agencies" 

means,  collectively,  the
Sewerage Company, the Wastewater Treatment Plant  and the  Waterworks
Company,  and  "Implementing  Agency"  means  any  of  the  Implementing
Agencies.

(d) 
(i) 

the  Waterworks  Company,  Part  A  of  the  Project; 

"its  respective Part.of  the  Project" means,  in respect
the
the Wastewater  Treatment

of: 
Sewerage  Company,  Part  B  thereof;  and  (iii) 
Plant, Part  C  thereof.

(ii) 

(e) 

"Project Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank
and Shanghai  of  even date herewith, as  the  same may be  amended from
time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements
supplemental  to  the  Project Agreement.

(f) 

"Sewerage  Company"  means  the  Shanghai  Sewerage  Company,
a  state-owned  enterprise,  established  with  the  approval  of  the
Shanghai  Construction  Committee  on  March  21,  1987  and  operating
pursuant  to  its  Charter  dated  March  21,  1987  and  to  Business  License
No.  0100427  dated December 3,  1990,  issued by the  Shanghai Huangpu
District  Bureau of  Industry and Commerce.

(g) 

"Sewerage Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means  the
agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  Shanghai  and  the  Sewerage
Company  pursuant  to  Part  B.2  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,
as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes
all  schedules  to the  Sewerage  Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(h) 

"Sewerage  Construction  Company"  means 

the  Shanghai
Sewerage  Construction  Company,  a  state-owned  enterprise  established
by  Document  No.  86-0564  dated  November  17,  1986,  issued  by  the
Shanghai Construction Commission.

(i) 

"Shanghai"  means  the  Municipality  of  Shanghai,  a

political  sub-division of  the Borrower.

-

3 

-

Section  2.02 

(j) 

"Special  Account"  means 
(b)  of  this  Agreement.

the  account  referred  to 

in

(k) 

"Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements"  means,  collectively,  the
Sewerage  Company  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  the  Wastewater  Treatment
Plant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Waterworks  Company
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement;  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  any  of
the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements;  and  "Subsidiary  Loan"  means  the  loan
provided  for  under a  Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(1) 

"Taihu Pumping  Station  Operation Agreement" means  the
agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Shanghai  Water  Conservancy
Bureau  of  Shanghai,  acting  on  behalf  of  Shanghai,  and  the  Taihu
Basin  Authority,  acting  on  behalf  of  the  Ministry  of  Water  Resources
of  the  Borrower,  referred  to  in  Section  6.01  (b)  of  this  Agreement,
and such  term includes  all  schedules  to  the  Taihu  Pumping  Station
Operation Agreement.

(m) 

"Wastewater  Discharge  Standards"  means 

the
Integrated  Standards  for  Discharge  of  Wastewater  No.  GB8978-88
issued by the  Borrower's National  Environmental Protection Agency;
and  (ii)  the  Shanghai  Industrial  Wastewater  Discharge  Standards
approved by the Shanghai Municipal  Government on March 11,  1989.

(i) 

(n) 

"Wastewater  Treatment  Plant"  means 

Shanghai
Songjiang  Wastewater  Treatment  Plant, 
a  state-owned  enterprise,
established  with  the  approval  of  the  Songjiang  County  Government  and
operating pursuant to  its  Charter dated September 28,  1993,  and to
Business  License  No. 270368000  dated November  17,  1993,  issued by
the  Songjiang  County  Bureau  of  Industry  and  Commerce.

the 

(o) 

"Wastewater Treatment  Plant  Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  Shanghai  and  the
Wastewater  Treatment  Plant  pursuant  to  Part  B.3  of  Schedule  2  to  the
Project  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and
such term includes  all  schedules  to  the Wastewater Treatment  Plant
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(p) 

"Water  Use  Regulations"  means  the  Regulations  on
Administration  of  Planned  Water  Use  in  Shanghai,  issued  by  the
Shanghai Municipal  Government  in 1985  as  Document No.  111,  as  said
Regulations  may be  amended from  time  to  time.

Waterworks  Company, 

"Waterworks  Company"  means  the  Shanghai  Municipal
a  state-owned  enterprise  established  with  the

(q) 

approval  of  the  Borrower's  State  Council  and operating pursuant  to
its  Charter  dated  October  1993,  and  to  Business  Licence  No.
160509600  dated August  31,  1993,  issued by the  Shanghai  Pudong New
Area  Bureau of  Commerce  and Industry.

(r) 

"Waterworks  Company  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the
to  be  entered  into  between  Shanghai  and  the  Waterworks
agreement 
Company  pursuant  to  Part  B.1  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,
as  the  same  may be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes
all  schedules  to  the  Waterworks  Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE  II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees  to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various currencies  that shall  have an aggregate value equivalent to
the  amount  of  one  hundred  sixty  million  dollars 
being the  sum of  withdrawals of  the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal  valued by the Bank  as of  the date of  such withdrawal.

($160,000,000),

Section  2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from

the  Loan Account  in accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule 1  to
so
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or, 
agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and
services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and to  be  financed out of  the proceeds  of  the  Loan.

the  Bank  shall 

if 

(b)  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,  open
and  maintain in  Dollars  a  special  deposit  account  in  a  commercial
bank  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to
seizure
the  Bank,  including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off, 
the  Special
or  attachment.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, 
Account  shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule
4  to this  Agreement.

Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June  30,  2000 or  such
date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly

later 
notify the  Borrower of  such later  date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank  a commitment
charge at  the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent  (3/4 of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

-

5  -

Section  2.05. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay 

interest 

on  the

principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester,  plus  one-half  of  one  percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On each  of  the
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower
shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
during  the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
applicable  during  such Interest  Period.

(b)  As  soon  as  practicable  after 

the  end  of  each  Semester,  the
Bank shall  notify the  Borrower of  the  Cost of  Qualified Borrowings
determined  in respect of  such Semester.

(c) For the purposes  of  this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

"Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period
ending  on  the  date  immediately  preceding  each
of  this
date  specified  in  Section  2.06 
Period  in
Agreement,  beginning  with  the  Interest 
which this Agreement  is  signed.

"Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,
as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and
expressed  as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the
outstanding  borrowings  of  the  Bank  drawn  down
June  30,  1982,  excluding  such  borrowings
after 
or  portions  thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to
fund:  (A) the Bank's  investments;  and  (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
rates  determined  otherwise  than
bearing  interest 
as provided  in paragraph  (a) of  this  Section.

(iii) 

"Semester"  means  the  first 
second six months  of  a  calendar year.

six  months  or  the

(d) On such  date as  the Bank may specify by no  less than  six
of

(b)  and  (c) 

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this  Section shall be amended to  read as  follows:

(iii) 

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal  amount  of  the  Loan withdrawn and  outstanding
from  time  to  time, at  a  rate  for each Quarter equal  to
the  Cost  of Qualified Borrowings  determined  in respect
of  the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of  one percent

- 6 

-

(1/2  of  19).  On  each  of  the  dates  specified  in  Section
2.06 of  this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after 
the  end  of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of  the
Cost  of  Qualified Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of
such Quarter."

"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter' means  a  three-month period
commencing  on  January  1,  April  1,  July  1  or  October  1  in
a  calendar year."

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually  on May 1  and November  1 in  each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of
the Loan  in accordance with  the amortization schedule  set  forth in
Schedule  3  to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the  Project

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares  its  commitment to  the
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement, and,  to this  end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any  of  its  other obligations  under  the  Loan Agreement,  shall
cause  Shanghai to perform in  accordance with the  provisions of  the
the  obligations  of  Shanghai  Therein  set  forth,
Project  Agreement  all 
shall  take or cause to be  taken all action, including the provision
of  funds, 
services  and  other  resources,  necessary  or
appropriate  to  enable  Shanghai  to  perform  such  obligations,  and
shall  not take or permit  to be taken any action which would prevent
or  interfere with such performance.

facilities, 

(b)  The  Borrower  shall  make  available  to  Shanghai  the
equivalent  in  Dollars  (determined  on  the  date  or  respective  dates  of
repayment)  of  the  value  of  the  currency  or  currencies  withdrawn  from
the  Loan Account  or  paid out  of -the Special  Account  on account  of
the  cost  of  goods  and  services  for  the  Project  to  be  financed  out  of
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  under  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  which  shall  include,  without  limitation,  terms  whereby

-7-

(ii) 

pay  interest 

Shanghai  shall  undertake to  (i) repay the  principal amount  so made
available over a period of  15  years,  inclusive of  a grace period of
on  the  principal  amount  so  made  available
5  ye"rs, 
and withdrawn  and outstanding from  time to  time  at  a  rate equal  to
90.63%  of  the  rate  of  interest  applicable  from time to  time  to  the
Loan  pursuant  to  Section  2.05  of  this  Agreement,  and 
pay  a
commitment charge on the principal  amount so made available and not
the  commitment  charge
time  equal 
withdrawn 
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  Section  2.04  of
this Agreement.

time 

from 

(iii) 

to 

to 

Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement  of  the  goods, works  and consultants'  services required
for  the  Project  and to be  financed  out of  the proceeds of  the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Project
Agreement.

Section 3.03.  The Bank and the  Borrower hereby agree that  the
obligations set  forth  in Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and
9.09 of  the General Conditions  (relating to insurance, use  of goods
and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance
and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  shall  be  carried  out  by  Shanghai
pursuant  to  Section 2.03  of  the  Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV

Financial  Covenants

Section 4.01.  (a) For  all  expenditures with respect  to which
withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of
statements  of  expenditure, the  Borrower shall:

(i)  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  in  accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices,  records  and
accounts  reflecting  such expenditures;

(ii) 

ensure  that  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
receipts  and  other  documents)
invoices,  bills, 
evidencing such  expenditures are  retained until
the  Bank  has  received
at 
the  audit  report  for  the  Fiscal  Year 
in  which
the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  was
made;  and

one  year  after 

least 

-

8  -

(iii) 

enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine
such records.

(b) The  Borrower  shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
(i)  of  this  Section,  and  those  for
paragraph  (a) 
the  Special  Account,  for  each  Fiscal  Year
audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate  auditing
principles  consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable  to  the  Bank;

than  six  months  after 

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in
the  end
any  case  not  later 
of  each  such  year  the  report  of  such  audit  by
said auditors,  of  such scope  and in  such detail
as  the  Bank  shall  have  reasonably  requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as
to  whether  the  statements  of  expenditure
submitted  during  such  Fiscal  Year,  together  with
the  procedures  and  internal  controls  involved  in
preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support
their 
the  related withdrawals;  and

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information
concerning  said  records  and  accounts  and  the
audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to
time  reasonably request.

ARTICLE  V

Remedies  of the Bank

Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02(1)  of  the  General

Conditions,  the  following additional events  are  specified:

(a) 

Shanghai  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its

obligations  under the  Project  Agreement.

(b)  As  a  result 

the  date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make  it 
its  obligations  under the  Project  Agreement.

improbable  that  Shanghai  will  be  able  to  perform

of  events  which  have  occurred  after 

- 9  -

(c) 

Any  of  the  parties  to  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements
shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  respective  obligations
thereunder.

(d) 

Any  of 

the  Taihu  Pumping  Station
Operation  Agreement  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its
respective obligations thereunder.

the  parties 

to 

Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01(h)  of  the  General
Conditions,  the  following additional  events  are  specified, namely,
that any event  specified in paragraph  (a) or  (c) or  (d) of  Section
5.01  of  this Agreement  shall  occur and  shall  continue  for a  period
of  60 days  after 
the Borrower.

notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given  by  the  Bank  to

ARTICLE  VI

Effective Date;  Termination

Section  6.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional
conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the
meaning of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the General  Conditions:

(a)  The  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  shall  have  been  executed  on

behalf  of  the parties  thereto.

(b)  The  Water  Conservancy  Bureau  of  Shanghai,  acting  on  behalf
of  Shanghai,  and,  the  Taihu  Basin  Authority,  acting  on  behalf  of  the
Borrower's Ministry of Water  Resources,  shall have  entered into an
agreement, whose  terms  and conditions  shall  be  satisfactory to  the
Bank,  designed  to  ensure 
the  proper  operation  of  a  pumping
station located at  Taihu in  Jiangsu Province,  (ii)  the appropriate
financing thereof,  and  (iii) discharges of  water pumped from Taihu
Lake  into  the  Huangpu  River  in  amounts  adequate  to  protect  the
quality  of potable  water supplied to the  intake system constructed
under  Part A  of  the  Project.

(i) 

(c)  The  Waterworks  Company's  tariffs 

shall  have  been  increased
to levels which would  enable the Waterworks  Company to comply with
its  obligations  set  forth  in  Part  B.2(a)  of  the  Annex  to  Schedule  2
to  the  Project Agreement.

(d) The Borrower's State Council  shall  have approved the  Loan

Agreement.

- 10  -

Section  6.02.  The 

following  are  specified  as  additional
matters,  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.02(c)  of  the  General
Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be
furnished  to  the  Bank:

(a) 

that  the  Project  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or
ratified  by  Shanghai,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  Shanghai  in
accordance  with its  terms;

(b) 

that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been  duly
authorized  or  ratified  by  the  parties  thereto  and  are  legally
respective  terms;
binding  upon  said  parties  in  accordance  with  their 
and

(c) 

that  the  Taihu  Pumping  Station  Operation  Agreement  has
been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  parties  thereto  and  is
legally binding upon  said parties  in accordance with its  terms.

Section  6.03.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after 

the  date  of  this

Agreement  is  hereby specified for  the purposes  of  Section 12.04  of
the  General  Conditions.

ARTICLE  VII

Representative of the Borrower;  Addresses

Section  7.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is
designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of
Section  11.03  of  the  General Conditions.

Section  7.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the

pur.oses  of  Section  11.01  of  the  General  Conditions:

For the  Borrower:

Ministry of  Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of  China

Cable address: 

Telex:

FINANMIN 
Beijing

22486  MFPRC CN

- 11  -

For the  Bank:

International  Bank for

Reconstruction and Development

1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States of  America

Cable  address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (RCA),
82987  (FTCC),
64145  (WUI) or

197688  (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties  hereto,  acting through  their
duly  authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be
of  Columbia,  United
signed  in 
States of America, as  of  the  day and year first above written.

respective  names  in 

the  District 

their 

PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC OF  CHINA

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By/S

Regional  Vice  President
East Asia and  Pacific

- 12 

-

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal  of  the  Proceeds  of  the  Loan

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
1. 
the  allocation  of  the
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  for  items  so to  be  financed  in  each Category:

Category 

(1)  Civil works  for 

Parts  A,  B,  and
C  of  the Project

(2)  Goods  for  Parts 
A,  B,  C,  D,  and 
F  of  the Project 

Amount  of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

%  of
Expenditures
to be  Financed

68,000,000 

28%

66,600,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures,  100%
of  local  expendi-
tures  (ex-factory
cost)  and  75%  of
local expenditures
for other  items
procured locally

(3) 

Consultants' 
services and
training

17,400,000 

100%

(4) 

Unallocated 

8,000,000

TOTAL 

160,000,000

2. 

For the purposes of  this  Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the
currency  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for  goods  or
services  supplied from the  territory of any country other than that
of  the Borrower;  and

- 13  -

(b) the  term  "local  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the
currency  of  the  Borrower  or  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the
territory of  the  Borrower.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no
3. 
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals,  in an  aggregate amount  not to  exceed $15,000,000,  may
be  made  on  account  of  payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that
date but  after April  15,  1993.

The  Bank may require  withdrawals from the  Loan Account  to  be
4. 
made on the basis of  statements of  expenditure for goods,  works and
services  under contracts not  exceeding  $300,000  equivalent and for
training,  regardless  of  the  cost  thereof,  under  such  terms  and
conditions as  the  Bank shall  specify by notice  to  the  Borrower.

- 14 

-

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the  Project

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are to  assist in  improving the
quality of  potable water  and controlling pollution  in  Shanghai,  so
as  to  provide  a  sustainable  environmental  setting  for  the  long-term
economic  and  social  development  of  Shanghai  while  providing  a
competitive  framework  for  industrial  growth.

The Project  consists of  the following parts, subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may agree  upon
from  time to  time  to  achieve such objectives:

Part A: 

Drinking  Water Quality Protection

(1)  Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  relocate  Shanghai's  raw  water
supply  intake  system  at  Linjiang  on the  Huangpu  River  to  Da  Qiao,
(a)  construction  and  equipping  of  an  intake,
consisting  of  the: 
pumping  stations,  a  raw  water  conveyor  system,  surge  protection
facilities 
of  existing water treatment facilities  and distribution systems.

and  telemetry  and  control  systems;  and  (b)  rehabilitation

(2)  Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the  management,

operations and finances  of  the  Waterworks Company.

(3)  Preparation of  a  water supply master plan for  Shanghai.

Part B: 

Upper Huanqpu Catchment  Pollution  Control

(1)  Construction  of  wastewater  conveyance  systems  in  the
Wujing  and  Minhang  neighborhoods  of  the  Minhang  District  of
Shanghai,  including  the  construction  and  equipping  of  pumping
stations  and the  provision of  secondary and tertiary  sewers.

(2)  Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the  management  and

operations of  the  Sewerage Company.

Part C: 

Songliang Wastewater  Pollution Control

(1)  Extension  and  upgrading  of  the  wastewater  collection  and
treatment  systems  in  Songjiang Town within Shanghai,  including the
extension  of  the  trunk  conveyance  system,  construction  and  equipping
of  pumping  stations  and  connection  of  sewerage  systems  to  households
and industries.

- 15  -

(2) 

Carring  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the  management

and  operations  of  the Wastewater Treatment  Plant.

Part D: 

Pollution Sources  and Water Quality Monitoring

Construction  and  equipping  of  a  laboratory  at  the  intake
constructed  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  and  provision  of  associated
sampling  and  analytical  equipment  and  monitoring  systems, 
in
order  to  monitor  water  quality  in  the  Upper  Huangpu  River  Catchment.

all 

Part  E: 

Municipal  Solid Waste  and Nightsoil Management

(1)  Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  develop  suitable  solid  waste
including  the  preparation  of  a

and  nightsoil  management  strategies, 
hazardous  waste management  plan.

(2) 

Carrying  out  of  a  program of  investments  to  strengthen

solid  waste  and  nightsoil  management  systems,  consisting  of: 
connection  of  septic  tank  and  nightsoil  facilities  to  municipal
sewerage  systems,  and 
(b)  construction  of  treatment  and  disposal
facilities  for municipal and industrial  solid wastes and provision
of  plant,  equipment  and  vehicles  required  for  the  collection  and
disposal  of  said wastes.

(a)

Part  F: 

Institutional  Development

(1)  Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the  institutional
capabilities  of  Shanghai  in  respect  of  water  supply  and
environmental  management  and  monitoring,  and  provision  of  equipment
and materials  required  therefor.

(2) 

Carrying  out  of  studies  to  develop  future  projects

designed to  further  improve  Shanghai's  environment.

The Project  is  expected to  be completed by June 30,  1999.

-

16 

-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

Payment  of  Principal
(expressed in  dollars)*

Date Payment  Due 

November 1,  1999 
May 1,  2000 
November 1,  2000 
May 1,  2001 
November  1, 2001 
May 1,  2002 
November  1, 2002 
May 1,  2003 
November 1,  2003 
May 1,  2004 
November 1,  2004 
May 1,  2005 
November 1,  2005 
May 1,  2006 
November  1, 2006 
May 1,  2007 
November 1, 2007 
May 1,  2008 
November 1, 2008 
May 1,  2009 
November 1,  2009 
May 1,  2010 
November 1,  2010 
May 1,  2011 
November  1, 2011 
May 1,  2012 
November  1,  2012 
May 1,  2013 
November 1,  2013 
May 1,  2014 

3,030,000
3,140,000
3,255,000
3,375,000
3,495,000
3,625,000
3,755,000
3,890,000
4,035,000
4,180,000
4,330,000
4,490,000
4,655,000
4,820,000
4,995,000
5,180,000
5,365,000
5,560,000
5,765,000
5,975,000
6,190,000
6,415,000
6,650,000
6,890,000
7,140,000
7,400,000
7,670,000
7,950,000
8,235,000
8,545,000

*The figures  in  this column represent dollar equivalents  determined
as  of  the respective dates  of  withdrawal.  See  General  Conditions,
Sections  3.04  and 4.03.

- 17 

-

Premiums  on  Prepayment

Pursuant  to  Section  3.04 

the
premium payable on  the principal  amount of  any maturity of the  Loan
to  be prepaid shall  be  the percentage  specified for  the  applicable
time  of  prepayment below:

(b)  of  the  General  Conditions, 

Time  of  Prepayment 

Premium

The  interest  rate
(expressed as  a
percentage per annum)
applicable  to  the  Loan
on the  day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more  than three years 
before  maturity

More  than three  years but 

not more  than six years
before  maturity

More  than six years but 

not more  than 11  years
before  maturity

More  than 11  years  but not 

more than 16  years
before maturity

More  than 16  years  but  not 

more  than 18  years
before maturity

More  than  18  years  before 

maturity

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

- 18  -

SCHEDULE  4

Special  Account

1. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule:

(a)  the term  "eligible Categories" means Categories  (1),  (2)

and  (3);

(b)  the  term  "eligible 

in
respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  required  for
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
Categories  in  accordance
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible 
with the  provisions of  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement;  and

expenditures"  means  expenditures 

(c) 

the 

term 

amount
equivalent to  $9,000,000  to be  withdrawn from the  Loan Account  and
deposited  in  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a)  of  this
Schedule.

"Authorized  Allocation"  means 

an 

Payments out  of  the Special Account shall be made exclusively

expenditures  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this

2. 
for  eligible 
Schedule.

After  the  Bank has  received evidence  satisfactory to  it  that
3. 
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to  replenish  the
Special  Account  shall  be made as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Borrower
shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a  deposit  or
deposits which do not  exceed the aggregate amount  of the Authorized
Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank
shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and
deposit  in  the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the
Borrower  shall have  requested.

(b) 

(i) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
Borrower shall  furnish  to  the Bank requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals  as  the  Bank shall  specify.

(ii) 

Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,
the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the
documents  and  other  evidence  required pursuant

- 19 

-

to  paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the payment
or  payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
requested.  On the  basis  of  each such  request,
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
withdraw from the  Loan Account  and deposit  into
the  Special  Account  such amount  as  the  Borrower
shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been
shown  by  said  documents  and  other  evidence 
to
have  been  paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for
eligible  expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified 
by  said
documents and other  evidence.

4. 
For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
Account,  the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents  and  other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures.

5. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule,  the Bank shall  not  be  required to  make  further  deposits
into  the  Special  Account:

(a)  if,  at  any time,  the  Bank shall have  determined that all
further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly 
from  the
Loan Account  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Article V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this
Agreement;  or

(b)  once  the  total 

unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to
the  eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant  to  Section 5.02  of  the
General  Conditions  with  respect  to  the  Project,  shall  equal  the
equivalent of  twice  the amount  of  the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan allocated to  the eligible Categories
shall  follow such procedures as  the Bank shall specify by notice to
the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after 
and
to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied 
such
that  all 
amounts  remaining  on deposit  in  the  Special  Account  as  of  the  date

- 20  -

of  such  notice  will  be  utilized 
expenditures.

in  making  payments  for  eligible

If 

(a) 

the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
6. 
payment  out  of  the  Special  Account:  (i) was  made  for  an  expenditure
or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this
by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified 
the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)
Bank, 
provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request;  or  (B)
deposit  into the Special Account  (or, if  the  Bank shall  so  request,
refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  or
the portion  thereof  not so  eligible  or justified.  Unless  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by  the  Bank  into  the
Special  Account shall  be  made until the  Borrower has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit  or refund,  as  the  case may be.

(b)  If 

the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at 

any  time  that  any
amount  outstanding  in the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the  Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to  the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to  the  Bank, refund to  the
the  Special

or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit 

in 

Bank  all 
Account.

(d)  Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a), 

(b)
and  (c) of  this  Schedule  shall be  credited to the  Loan Account  for
subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a upue copy of
the original in the archives of the laternatonal  Bank
for  Reconstrdcton  and  DevelopmeaL

FOR-SIR WLMARY

