么

LOAN NUMBER 3722 HE

LOAN AMR R

AGREEMENT, dated 

1994, between
IN MIRRATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and
NACIONAL FIRANCIERAy  S.N.C. (the Borrower).

WHEREAS: 

(A) 

the  Bank - has  received  from  the  United  Kaz4 can

States  (the  Guarantor)  a  1Letter  -,dated Har-A  49  1994,  vhich  letter
describes  the  Guarantor9s  policies  and  strategies  (the  Program)  with
respect to the public primary education sector in Mexico;

(B)  the  Guarantor  and  the  Borrower,  having  been  satisfied  as
to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule
the
2  to  this  Agreement,,  have  requested  the  Bank, to  assist  in 

---financing of the Project;

(C)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of  even date
the  Guarantor  has
herewith  between  the  Guarautor  and  the  Bank, 
agreed to  guarantee  the obligations of  the Borrower in respect of
the  Loan  and  to  undertake  such  other  obligations  as  set  forth  in  the
Guarantee Agreement;  and

WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of  the
foregoing,  to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions;  Definitions

Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the Banks  dated January lip  19859 with the
modifications  set  forth below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral part of  this Agreement:

(a)  The last  sentence of Section 3.02 is  deleted.

(b)  In  Section  6.029  subparagraph  (k)  in  relettered  as

sulhparagraph, (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is  added to read:

(k)  An  extraordinary  situation  *hall have  arisen under
the  Loan  would  be
which  any  further  vithdravals  under 
inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  Article  1119  Section  3  of
the Bank9s Articles of Agreement."

-2-

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several  terms  defined  in  the  Genairal  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble
to this  Agreement  have  the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and
the  following  additional  terms  h%ve  the  following  meanings:

(a) 

"CAPFCE"  means  the Guarantor's  Administrative  Committee
for  the  Federal  School  Construction  Program  (Comit6  Administrador
del  Programa  Federal  de  Construcci6n  de  Escuelas);

(b) 

"CONAFE"  means  the  Guarantor's  National  Council  for

Educational Development  (Conselo Nacional de  Fomento Educativo);

(c)  "COPLADE" means  the  State  Committee  for  Planning  and
Development  (Comit6  de  Planificaci6n  y  Desarrollo  Estatal)  of  each
of  the  Project States;

(d) 

"CTG"  means  a  SEP  Central Technical  Group  (Grupo  T6cnico
a  Nivel  Central)  staffed  on  a  full-time  basis  by  technical  staff
members  of  SEP's  General  Directorate  for  Indigenous  Education
(Direcci6n  General  de  Educaci6n  Indigena) and  General Directorate
for  Primary  Education  (Direcei6n  General de  Educaci6n Primaria);

(e)  "Implementation  Letter"  means  the  letter 

of  even  date
herewith  from  the  Guarantor  to  the  Bank,  containing  the  Annexes
referred  to  throughout  this  Agreement  and  the  Guarantee  Agreement;

(f) 

"Infrastructure  Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual
(Manual  de  Procedimientos  pAra  la  Construcci6n,  Rehabilitaci6n  y
in
Mantenimiento  de  Espacios  Educiativos),  prepared  by  CONAFE 
consultation  with  CAPFCE,  containing,  inter  alia,  the  criteria
pursuant  to which  Project  Schools  shall  be  selected  for  purposes  of
Part B.6  (a) and  (b) of the Project;

"Maintenance  Handbook"  means  the  handbook  (Manual de
(g) 
to  assist  Project  State
Mantenimiento), 
municipalities  in  carrying  out  maintenance  under  Part  3.6  (b)  of  the
Project;

prepared  by  CONAFE, 

(h) 

"PARE  Project"  means 

the  Primary  Education  Project
partially  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  Bank  loan  3417-HE  pursuant
to  the  October  14,  1991  loan  and  guarantee  agreements  between  the
Bank  and  the  Borrower  and  between  the  Bank  and  the  Guarantor,
respectively;

-3-

(i)  "Participation Agreement" means  an agreement  (Convenio
de  Coordinaci6n)  entered  into  between  the  Guarantor  and  a  State
pursuant  to  Sections  3.06  or  3.07  of  the  Guarantee  Agreement  (in  the
case  of  a  Participation  Agreement  with  the  State  of  Chiapas,  Oaxaca,
Guerrero or Hidalgo, such Participation Agreement may take the form
of  an annex to an already existing agreement between such State and
the Guarantor);

(j)  "PCU" means  CORAFE's  Project  Coordination  Unit  (Unidad
Coordinadora  Central) referred to in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee
Agreement;

(k) 

"Project  School"  means  a  public  primary  (grades  1-6)
school  existing  (or  to be  constructed  under  Part  B.6  of  the  Project)
in  a  Project  State  municipality  listed  in  Annex  A  of  the  imple-
mentation  Letter,  which  school  may  not  be  one  administered  by
CONAFE;

(1) 

the  following  States:
Campeche,  Durango,  Guanajuato,  Jalisco,  Michoaca,  Puebla,  San  Luis
Potosi,  Tabasco,  Veracruz  and  Yucatan;

"Project  State"  means  one  of 

(a) 

for
designing,  preparing  and  distributing  library  books  to  public
schools  (Proarama  de  Rincones  de  Lectura);

"Reading  Corner  Program"  means  SEP's  program 

(n)  "School  Council"  means 

any 

one  of 

the  Social

Participation School Councils  (Conseios Escolares de  Participacifn
Social),  established  under  the  Guarantor's  1993  General  Education
Law  (Le  General  de  Educaci6n,  published  in  the  Guarantor's  Diario
Oficial  de Ja Lederaci6n  (Official Gazette) on July 13,  1993)  for  a
particular Project School;

(o) 

"SEE"  means  a  State's  Education  Secretariat  (Secretaria

Estatal de Educaci6n) or equivalent;

(p)  "Self-Help  Construction  Handbook" means  the  handbook
(Manual  de  Construcci6n  Comunitaria),  prepared  by  CONApE,  to  assist
Project  State municipalities  in  carrying  out  construction,  expansion
or  rehabilitation  activities  under Part B.6  (b) of the Project;

(q) 

"SEP"  means  the Guarantor's  Public Education  Secretariat

(Secretaria de  Educaci6n ffilica);

-4-

(r)  "SBCP" means  the Guarantor's Finance and Public Credit

Secretariat  (Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito P blico);

(a)  "SOPE"  means  a  Project  State's  Public  Works  Secretariat

(SAcretaria de  Obras Pfblicas  del Estado) or  equivalent;

(t) 

"SPCU" means  an SEE's  State Project Coordivation Unit
(Unidad  Coordinadora  Estatal)  referred  to  in  Section  3.06  (h)  of  the
Guarantee  Agreement;

(u)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in

Section 2.02  (b) of this Agreement;

(v)  "State" means any one of the states that constitute the

United Mexican States;

(W)  "STG"  means  a  Project  State  SEE  State  Technical  Group
T6cnico  a  Nivel  Estatal)  staffed  on  a  full-time  basis  by
(Gr 
technical  staff  members  of  such  SEE's  General  Directorate  for
Indigenous  Education  (Direcck4n  General  do  Educaci6n  Indigena),  or
equivalent  and  General  Directorate  for  Primary  Education  (Direcci6n
General  de Educacifn  Primaria)  or  equivalent;  and

(x) 

"T&C"  means  a  technical  advisory  committee  referred  to

in  Sections  3.06  (h)  or  3.09  of  the  Guarantee  Agreement.

ARTICLE  II

The  Loan

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate  value  equivalent  to
the  amount  of  four  hundred  twelve  million  Dollars  ($412,000,000),
being  the  sum  of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  with  each
withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of  such  withdrawal.

Section  2.02.  (a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may be  withdrawn  from

the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to
the  Bank  shall  so
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or, 
agree,  to be  made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works
and  services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan.

if 

-5-

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,
open  and  maintain  in  Dollars  a  special  deposit  account  in  Banco  de
Mexico  on  terms  and  conditions  ratisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Deposits
in
the  Special  Account  shall  be  made 
into,  and  payments  out  of, 
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule 5 to  this Agreement.

Section  2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  December  31,  1999  or
such  later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall promptly
notify  the  Borrower  and  the  Guarantor  of  such  later  date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment
charge at  the rate of three-fourths of  one percent  (314  of  1%)  per
annum  on  the principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

Section  2.05. 

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
the  preceding
Qualified  Borrowings  determined 
Semester,  plus  one-half of  one percent  (1/2 of  1%).  On  each  of  the
the  Borrower
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, 
shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
during 
applicable during such Interest Period.

respect  of 

in 

(b)  As soon as  practicable after the and of each Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  tha Borrower  and  the  Guarantor  of  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  such  Semester.

(c) 

For  the  purposes  of  this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

six-month  period
"Interest  Period"  means  a 
ending  on  the  date  iamediately  preceding  each
this
date 
Agreement,  beginning  with  the  Interest  Period  in
which this Agreement is  signed.

Section  2.06  of 

specified 

in 

reasonably  determined  by 

"Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings"  means the  cost,
the  Bank  and
as 
expressed  as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the
outstanding  borrowings  of  the  Bank  drawn  down
after  June  30,  1982,  excluding  such  borrowings
or  portions  thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to
loans
fund:  (A)  the  Bank's  investments;  and  (B) 
which  may  be  made  by  the  Bank  after  July  1,  1989

-6-

bearing  interest  rates  determined  otherwise  than
as provided in paragraph  (a) of this  Section.

(iii) 

"Semester"  means  the  first  six  months  or  the
second six mouths  of a  calendar year.

(d)  On  such  date  as  the  Bank  may specify  by  no  less  than  six
of

(b)  and  (c) 

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this  Section shall be amended to read as follows:

(iii) 

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Quarter  equal  to
the  Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect
of  the  preceding  Quarter,  plus  one-half  of  one  percent
(112  of  1%).  On each  of  the dates specified in Section
2.06  of  this Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  pay  interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rates
applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of
each  Quarter,  the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  and  the
Guarantor  of  the Cost  of Qualified  Borrowings  determined
in respect of  such Quarter."

0(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing  on January  1,  April  1, July  1 or  October  1  in
a  calendar year."

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually  on  April  1  and  October  1  in  eachi  year.

Section 2.07.  The  Borrower  shall repay  the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  in  accordance  vith  the  amortization  schedule  set  forth  in
Schedule  3  to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Transfer of Loan Proceeds;  Other  Covenants

Section  3.01.  The  Borrower  shall  enter  into,  and  comply  vith
the  terms  of,  contractual  arrangements  with  the  Guarantor,  satis-
factory  to  the  Bank,  providing,  inter alia, for:  (a)  the  transfer  to
the  Guarantor  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  for  use  by the Guarantor,

-7-

CONAFE,  CAPFCE  and the Project States;  and (b) the transfer by the
Guarantor  to  the  Borrower  of  such  funds  as  the  Borrower  shall  be
required  to  pay  to  the  Bank  on  account  of  principal,  interest  and
other charges on  the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  amend  or  fail  to  enforce  any  provision  of
its
such  contractual  arrangements.  The  Borrower  shall  exercise 
rights  under  such  contractual  arrangements  in  such  a  manner  as  to
protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish
the purposes of the Loan.

Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations  set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions  (relating respectively to insurance,
use  of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports,
maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  shall be  carried  out,  or  caused  to
be  carried  out,  by  the  Guarantor  pursuant  to  Section  3.04  of  the
Guarantee Agreement.

Section 3.03.  The  Borrower  shall participate  in  the  annual  and
midterm  reviews  referred  to  in  Section  3.19  (b)  and  (c)  of  the
Guarantee  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV

Financial  Covertants

Section  4.01. 

maintained  records  and  separate  accounts  adequate  to  reflect, 
accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices, 
expenditures  in connection with the execution of the Project.

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be
in
the  resources  and

(b)  The  Borrower  shall:

(i) 

have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  and  the  records
and  accounts  for  the  Special  Account  for  each
fiscal  year  audited,  in  accordance  with
and
generally 
procedures consistently applied, by independent
and  qualified  auditors;

accepted  auditing 

standards 

(ii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in
any case  not  later  than  six months  after  the  end
of  each such year, the report  of such audit by

-8-

said auditors,  of  such scope and in such detail
as  the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  each  month  certified
statements  of the Special Account;  and

(iv) 

to  the  Bank  such  other  information
furnish 
concerning  said  records  and  accounts  as  well  as
the  audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to
time  reasonably  request.

(c) 

For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  vere  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
the  Borrower  shall  provide  to  the  Guarantor  any
expenditure, 
information  that  may  be  required  by  the  Guarantor  to  comply  with  the
the  Guarantee
Guarantor's  obligations  under  Section  3.05  of 
Agreement.

ARTICLE  V

Remedies  of  the  Bank

Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (1)  of  the  General

Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)  that  the  Guarantor's  General  Education  Law,  referred  to
in  Section  1.02  (n)  of  this  Agreement,  as  amended  to  the  date  of
suspended,  abrogated,
this  Agreement,  shall  have  been  amended, 
the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  affect
repealed  or  waived  so  as  to,  in 
materially and adversely the  carrying out of  the Project;  and

(b) 

to  perform  any  of 

that  any  State  has  failed 
is  a  party,
obligations  under  a  Participation  Agreement  to which  it 
in  which  case  the  Bank may, after  consultation  with  and  by  notice  to
the  Borrower  and  the  Guarantor,  only  suspend  in  whole  or  in  part  the
right  of  the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  for
expenditures  incurred  either:  (i)  by  the  State  in  question  or  any
municipality thereof;  and/or  (ii)  for  purposes  of benefitting  the
public primary  education sector of that  State specifically.

its

Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01 

(h)  of  the  General

Conditions,  the  following  additional  events  are  specified:

that the suspension referred to in Section 5.01  (b) of
this  Agreement  shall  have  been  in  effect  for  all  Project  States  and

(a) 

-9-

the  States  of  Chiapas,  Oaxaca,  Hidalgo  and  Guerrero  simultaneously
for  a  continuous  period  of  90  days;  and

(b) 

that  any  event  specified  in  Section  5.01  (a)  of  this

Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective  Date;  Termination

Section  6.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  addLtional
conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the
meaning of Section  12.01  (c) of the General Conditions:

(a) 

that  CONAFE  shall  have  completed  the  Infrastructure
the  Self-Help  Construction  Handbook  and  the

Operational  Manual, 
Maintenance Handbook, all satisfactory to the Bank;

(b)  that  the  PCU  and four SPCUs  (one  for  each  of  the  Project
(c)  of  this  Section)  are  fully
and

States  referred  to  in  paragraph 
operational  and  staffed  as  sec  forth  in  Sections  3.06  (h) (i) 
3.09  (a) of  the Guarantee Agreement;

(c) 

that fully executed  Participation Agreements,  one  for
each of  four different Project States  and all  satisfactory to  the
Bank, shall have been presented to the Bank;  and

(d) 

that the  contractual  arrangements  referred  to in  Section

3.01  of this Agreement shall have been entered into.

Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of  the  General
Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be
furnished  to  the  Bank:

(a) 

that,  on  behalf  of  each  of  the  parties  to  the
to  in  Section  3.01  of  this
contractual  arrangements 
Agreement, such contractual arrangements have been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered by  each such party and
are legally binding upon  each such party in  accordance with their
terms;  and

referred 

(b)  that,  on  behalf  of  each  of  the  parties  to  each
(c)  of  this
Participation  Agreement  referred  to  in  Section  6.01 
Agreement,  such  Pa*ticipation  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or

- 10  -

ratified  by,  and  executed  and  delivered  by  each  such  party  and  is
legally binding upon each such party in accordance with its  terms.
is hereby specified

Section 6.03.  The date 

for  the  p,,  rposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the  General  Conditions.

ARTICLE  VII

Representative of  the  Borrower;  Addresses

Section  7.01.  The  Director  Ir-ternacional  of  the  Borrower  is
designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of
Section 11.03  of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the

purposes of  Section 11.01  of  the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for

Reconstruction  and  Development

1818  0  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (RCA)
82987  (FTCC)
64145  (WUI) or
197688  (TIRT)

For the Borrower:

Nacional Financiera, Z.N.C.
Direcei6n Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 HMxico, D.F.
HXico

-

11  -

Cable address: 

Telex:

NAFIN 
Mexico City 

NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto, acting through their
duly  authorized  representatives, have  caused  this Agreement  to be
signed  in  their  respective  names in  the  District  of  Columbia,  United
States of America, as  of the day and  year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Regional  Vice  President
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean

NACIONAL  FINANCIERA,  S.N.C.

By

By

Authorized Representative

- 12  -

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal  of  the  Proceeds  of  the  Loan

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
the  allocation  of  the
the  percentage  of

1. 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
amounts  of 
expenditures  for items  so to be financed  in each Category:

to  each  Category  and 

the  Loan 

Amount of  the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

I  of
Expenditures
to be  Financed

32,000,000 

50%

(2)  Civil works under 

24,000,000 

50%

Category 

(1)  Civil works under 
Parts B.6  (a),  C.7
and  C.9 of the Project

Part B.6  (b) of the
Project (except
as  covered under
Category  (11)
below)

Equipment  and  fwr- 
niture  (excluding 
vehicles  and  except 
as  covered  under 
Categories  (4), 
and  (8)  below)

(5)

Didactic materials 
(durable goods and
books) under Parts
B.1, B.2, B.4 and
B.5  of  the  Project

(3) 

(4) 

8,000,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures  and
90% of  local
expenditures

70,000,000 

90%

Category 

(5)  Student educational 
packages  (non- 
durable goods) under 
Part 1.3  of the 
Project 

- 13  -

Amount  of  the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed  in 

Dollar -Euivalent) 

I  of
Expenditures
to  be  Financed

50,000,000 

75%  until
withdrawal*  under
this Category
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$25,000,000;  50%
until  withdrawals
under this Cate-
gory have reached
an  aggregate  amount
equivalent to
$45,000,000;  and
25%  thereafter

(6)  Teacher training 
under Part A.1
of the Project

(7)  Management training 
under Part C.1
of the Project

(8)  Training materials 

under Part A.2 of
the Project

(9)  Technical 

assistance and
studies

95,000,000 

1002

1,800,000 

100%

1,700,000 

100%

6,700,000 

100%

- 14  -

Amount  of  the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

55,300,000 

Category 

(10) Teacher incentives 
and  supervisor 
support payments 
under  Parts  C.6 
and C.8  (a) of 
the Project 

75% until with-
drawals  under
this Category
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$20,000,000;  50%
until withdrawals
under  this  Cate-
gory have reached
an aggregate  amount
equivalent to
$50,000,000;  and
25Z  thereafter

751  until
withdrawale under
this  Category
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$15,000,000;  50%
until  withdrawals
under  this  Cate-
gory have reached
an  aggregate  amoumt
equivalent to
$25,000,000;  and
25%  thereafter

(11)  Incremental 

operating costs 

27,500,000 

(12)  Unallocated 

40,000,000

TOTAL 

412,000,000

- 15 

-

2. 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)  the  term  "foreign expenditures" means  expenditures  in
the  currency  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Guarantor  f  or
goods  or services supplied  from the territory of  any country other
than that of  the Guarantor;

(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency  of  the  Guarantor  or  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the
territory of  the Guarantor;

(c) 

the  terms  "teacher  training"  and  "management  training"

include,  inter  alia,  ver diems  for  trainees  and  trainers;  and

(d) 

the  term  "incremental  operating  costs"  means  PCU  and
SPCU  operational,  maintenance,  travel  and  er  diem  costs,  that would
not  have  been  incurred  absent  the  Project,  and  includes  salaries
only:  (i) for  services provided by PCU staff over and above those
for  SPCU  staff
already  being  provided  for  the PARE  Project;  and  (ii) 
at  or  above  the  Director  level  referred  to  in  Section  3.06  (h) 
of  the  Guarantee  Agreement.

(i)

in 

(1) 

(11) 

through 

1  above, 

in  respect  of: 

respect  of  Categories 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph 

no
3. 
(a)  payments  made  for
withdrawals  shall  be  made 
expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
in  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $6,000,000,  may  be
withdrawals, 
on  account  of
made 
payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that  date  but  after  October
31,  1993;  (b)  payments  made  for  expenditures  made  by  or  for  the
the  State  of
benefit  of  a  Project  State,  the  State  of  Chiapas, 
Oaxaca,  the  State  of  Guerrero,  the  State  of  Hidalgo  or  any
municipality or School Council within any such State, if:  (i) such
State  has  not  entered  into  a  Participation  Agreement  satisfactory  to
the  same
the  Bank  and  accompanied  by 
requirements  as  set  forth  for  the  legal  opinions  referred  to  in
the  case
Section  6.02  (b)  of  this  Agreement;  and  (ii) 
of  a  Project  State)  does  not  have  a  fully  operational  SPCU  and  TAC
of  the
(staffed  as  set  forth  in  Section  3.06 
Guarantee Agreement);  and  (c) payments made for expenditures under
Categories  (1)  and  (2)  until  terms  of  reference,  satisfactory  to  the
Bank, have been prepared  for  technical  supervision  of  works  under
the Project.

legal  opinions  meeting 

such  State  (in 

and 

(ii) 

(h) 

(i) 

The Bank  may  require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be
4. 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures not

-

16  -

subject  to  contract  (such  as  incentives  under  Category  (10))  and  for
expenditures  (other  than  for  vorks  contracts  exceeding  $2,000,000
equivalent  per  contract,  for  goods  contracts  exceeding  $350,000
equivalent per contract, for contracts with individual consultants
exceeding  or  equal  to  $50,000  equivalent  per  contract  and  for
contracts  with  consulting  firms  exceeding  or  equal  to  $100,000
equivalent  per  contract)  under  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

- 17  -

SCHEDULE  2

Description of the Project

The  principal  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  in
improving  the  quality  and  efficiency  of  public  primary  education  in
the  Project  States  so  as  to  raise  such  quality  and  efficiency  to
the  Mexican  national  average.  A  subsidiary
levels  closer  to 
objective  of  the  Project  is  to  reinforce  management  capacity  within
the  public  primary  education  sector  of  four  other  States  (Chiapas,
Oaxaca,  Guerrero  and  Hidalgo).

The  Project  consists  of  the  following  parts,  subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve  such objectives:

Part A: 

Human Resources Development

Provision, to school  administrators  (principals, supervisors
1. 
and assistant supervisors)  and primary school teachers  serving the
Project  Schools,  of  in-service  training  with  respect  to  pedagogical
counseling,  educational  resource  use,  educational  problem  pre-
vention, remedial education, multigrade class  teaching techniques,
written language,  mathematics,  bilingualism  in  indigenous  education,
use  of  indigenous  language  texts  and  materials,  Spanish  as  a  second
language and selected Project State-specific topics.

2.  Development,  printing,  distribution  and  use  of  training
materials  (study  guides,  trainer's  manuals,  bibliographies,
and
evaluation 
promotional  materials  (such  as  posters) in  support  of  the  training
provided  under  Part  A.1  of  the  Project.

instruments,  anthologies  of  selected  readings) 

Part B: 

Educational Material Resources

Distribution to  each Project  School of  a teaching materials
1. 
package  consisting  of  durable  goods,  serving  a  pedagogical  purpose,
such  as  maps, charts,  posters,  anatomic  models  and,  additionally  for
Project  Schools  with electricity, a radio,  a tape recorder,  audio
cassettes and an overhead  projector or other piece of  audiovisual
equipment.

2.  Distribution  to  each  classroom  of  each  Project  School  of  a
i3  used
grade-specific 
simultaneously  by  students  from  more  than  one  grade)  teaching

(or  multigrade-specific 

a  classroom 

if 

-

18  -

materials  package  consisting  of  durable  goods,  serving  a  pedagogical
purpose,  such  as  rulers,  dictionaries,  games,  geometric  solids  and
chalkboards.

3.  Distribution  to  each  student  of  each  Project  School  of  an
educational  materials  package  (one  per  student  per  year)  consisting
of  non-durable  goods  such  as  notebooks,  pencils  and  crayons.

Production  and  distribution,  to  each  Project  School,  of  a
4. 
package  of  library  books  in  support  of  the  Reading  Corner  Program
(such  package  to:  (a)  consist  of  at  least  200  books  for  Project
Schools  with  five  or  less  classrooms;  (b)  consist  of  at  least  350
(c)
books  for  Project  Schools  with  six  or  more  classrooms;  and 
the  case  of  Project  Schools
include  indigenous  language  books  in 
that  serve indigenous  language speakers),  as well as  of  a supple-
mentary  package  of  at  least  15  educational  reference  books  for
teacher  self-training  and  at  least  30  region-specific  content  books
for  student use.

5.  Design  and  production  of  indigenous  language  textbooks  for
each  of  the  six primary  school  grades  (and  related  student  workbooks
and  teacher  guidebooks),  written  in  the  17  indigenous  languages
(Mays  and  one  of  its  variants,  Huasteco  and  one  of  its  variants,
Totonaco  and  one  of  its  variants,  NAhuatl  and  three  of  its  variants,
Tepehuano,  Huichol,  Pur6pecha,  Mazahus,  Mexicanero,  Chontal  and
Chol)  spoken  by  the major ethnic groups  in  the  Project  States,  and
the
iieas 
provision  of 
corresponding ethnic groups.

to  Project  Schools 

that  serve 

these 

(a)  Construction,  rehabilitation and/or expansion  of Project
6. 
Schools by  federal authorities;  (b) construction, rehabilitation,
expansion  and/or  maintenance  of  Project  Schools  by  Project  State
furniture
municipal 
maintenance);  (c)  provision  of  furniture  for such  newly  constructed,
(d)  provision  of
rehabilitated  or  expanded  Project  Schools;  and 
adequate  staff  for  such  newly  constructed,  rehabilitated  or  expanded
Project  Schools.

(including  Project  Sch6ol 

authorities 

Part C: 

Institutional Strenathenini

Provision  of  local  and/or  overseas  management  training  to
1. 
high-level officials  in the public primary education sector  of  the
Project  States  and  the  States  of  Chiapas,  Oaxaca,  Guerrero  and
Hidalgo,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  following  topics:

- 19  -

education  quality  and  efficiency;  methodologies  for  policy  analysis
and  sector  performance  assessment;  education  sector  reform  options;
the  relationship  among  education,  work  and  employment;  education
financing;  resource  allocation modelling;  strategic  use  of  data
collected  from  education  management  information  systems;  evaluation
and  measurement  of  educational  achievement;  decentralization  of
and  non-Spanish
curriculum 
education  administration; 
language instruction.

reform; 

Strengthening  of  CONAFE's  institutional  capacity  through:  (a)
2. 
establishment  and  operation  of  an  integrated  management  information
system  to  be  used  at  both  federal  and  State  levels;  and  (b)  esta-
blishment  and  operation  of  a  process  evaluation  system  to  assess  the
quality and  short-term effects of Project components.

Testing  of  the  cognitive  achievement  of  a  sample  of  public

3. 
primary education students from the Project States.

(a) 

(ii) 

Carrying  out  of  the  following  studies: 

a  preschool
4. 
and  effec-
efficiery 
education  study  to  assess  the  relevance, 
in  Mexico  and
tiveness  of  public  preschool  education  programs 
recommend  strategies  for  their  improvement;  (b)  a  secondary
issues  facing  secondary
education  study  to  examine:  (i) major 
the  causes  of  secondary  education  dropout  rates;
education; 
(iii)  the working  conditions of  professionals  in the  sector;  (iv)
the  characteristics  that make  a  secondary  school  effective;  and  (v)
the  financial  implications  of  extending  mandatory  basic  education
from  six grades  to nine  grades;  (c)  an  environmental  education  study
to devise strategies on how to systematize environmental education
in  Mexico  so  as  to  make  it  more  relevant  for  current  needs;  and  (d)
a  science  education  study  to  test different  science  education  models
implemented  on  a  pilot  basis  in  a  sample  of  270  Project  Schools  (of
which 90 would serve as  a control group).

Implementation  of  a  mass-media  campaign  to  promote  Project

5. 
activities  and benefits  among the public.

Provision  of  monthly work  incentives,  equal  to and  in  additton
6 .
in
to  their  base  salary,  to  teachers  working  in  Project  Schools 
extremely  poor  and  isolated  rural  areas  so  as  to  promote  improvement
in  their  profesr.onal  performance.

Construction,  furnishing  and  equipping  of  at  least 600  offices
7. 
for  public  primary  school  supervisors  (and  their  sector  chiefs),  to

20  -

located  within  easy  access  of 

the  Project  Schools 

to  be

be 
supervised.

(a) 

Provision  of  quarterly  travel  incentives  (equivalent  to
8. 
approximately  $350  per  supervisor  per  quarter  and  approximately  $190
per  sector  chief  per  quarter)  to  at  least  926  supervisors  and  160
sector  chiefs to defray travel expenses  incurred  by  such  personnel
in  carrying  out  a  regular  program  of  Project  School  supervision
(b)  provision  of  at  least  80  vehicles  to  be  used
visits; 
exclusively  by  such  supervisors  and  sector  chiefs  to  carry  out  said
supervision  visits.

and 

Construction  of  at  least  61  regional  warehouses, and  provision
9. 
of vehicles,  in  support  of  the  improvement  of  the  existing  system
for  the  distribution  to  public  primary  schools  of  textbooks,
(such  as  furniture  and
educational  materials  and  other  goods 
equipment).

10.  Provision  of  technical  assistance,  vehicles,  equipment  and
incremental  operating  cost  financing  to  support  the  Project
administration activities of the PCU and  the SPCUs.

The  Project  is  expected  to  be  completed  by  June  30,  1999.

- 21  -

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due 

On each April  1 and October  1

Payment of  Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

beginning October 1, 1999
through April 1, 2009 

20,600,000

* 

this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents
The  figures 
determined  as  of  the  respective  dates  of  withdrawal.  See
General Conditions,  Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

in 

- 22  -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to  Section 3.04  (b) of the  General Conditions,  the
premium  payable  on  the  principal  amount  of  any  maturity  of  the  Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time  of  prepayment  belotf:

Time of  Prepayment 

Premium

The interest rate  (expressed
as  a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of  prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years 
before  maturity

More than three years  but 

not more  than six years
before  maturity

More  than six years but 

not more than 11 years
before  maturity

More than 11  years but not 

more  than  13  yeawrt
before maturity

More than 13 years before 

maturity

0.20

0.40

0.73

0.87

1.00

- 23  -

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and ConsultantsO  Services

Section I.  Procurement of  Goods and Works

Part A: 

International Competitive Bidding

in 

Except as provided in Part C of  this Section, goods and works
1. 
accordance  with
shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded 
procedures consistent vith those set forth in Sections  I and II of
the  "Guidelines for  Procurement under IBRD Loans  and  IDA Credits"
published  by  the  Bank  in  May 1992  (the  Guidelines).  For  fixed-price
the  invitation  to  bid  referred  to  in  paragraph  2.13  of
contracts, 
the  Guidelines  shall  provide  that,  when  contract  award  is  delayed
beyond  the  original bid  validity period,  the  successful  bidder's  bid
price  will  be  increased  for  each  week  of  delay  by  a  predisclosed
correction  factor  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Such  an  increase  shall  not
be  taken into account in the  bid  evaluation.

In  the  procurement  of  works  in  accordance  with  Part  A  of  this
2. 
if  consistent
Section,  bidding  documents  prepared  by  the  Guarantor, 
with  the  Guidelines  and  otherwise  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  shall be
used  until  the  Bank  issues  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  for
Mexico  acceptable  to the  Guarantor.  At  the  time  of  such  issuance  and
thereafter,  only  said  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  (with  such
modifications  thereto  as  the  Bank  shall  have  agreed  to  be  necessary
for the purposes of the Project) shall be used.

In  the  procurement  of goods  in accordance with Part A of this
3. 
Section,  the  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  issued  by  the  Bank,
with such  modifications  thereto  as  the  Bank  shall  have  agreed  to be
necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,  shall  be  used;  provided,
however,  that  for  any  such  procurement  for  which  the  invitation  to
is  dated  prior  to  February  1,  1994,  standard
bid  ("convocatoria") 
bidding  documents based  on  the  so-called  "Cuernavaca  Documents"  with
such  changes  as may be  agreed  by  the  Bank  and  the  Guarantor  for  each
contract shall be used.

To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall  be
4. 
grouped  in  bid packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $350,000
in  bid
or  more  each,  and  contracts  for  works  shall  be  grouped 
packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $10,000,000  or  more
each.

- 24  -

Part B: 

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
described  in  Part  A.1  of  this  Section,  goods  manufactured  in  Mexico
may  be  granted  a  margin  of  preference  in  accordance  with,  and
the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the
subject  to, 
Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix  2  thereto.

Part  C: 

Other  Procurement  Procedures

Works  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  less  than
1. 
$10,000,000  equivalent  per  contract  or  per  bid  package,  up  to  an
aggregate amount  equivalent to  $43,000,000, may be procured under
contracts  awarded  on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised
in  accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.
locally, 
Such procurement shall take place using standard bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank.

Goods estimated to  cost less than the equivalent of  $350,000
2. 
per  contract  or  per  bid  package,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount
equivalent to $23,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
in
on 
Such
accordance  with  procedures 
procurement  shall  take  place  using  standard  bidding  documents
satisfactory  to  the  Bank.

the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised 

satisfactory 

the  Bank. 

locally, 

to 

Works  estimated  to cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of  $300,000
3. 
amount
per  contract  or  per  bid  package,  up 
equivalent to $30,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  comparison  of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a  list
of  at  least  three  contractors  eligible  under  the  Guidelines, 
accordance with procedures acceptable  to the Bank.

to  an  aggregate 

in

Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of  $150,000
4. 
per  contract  or  per  bid  package,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount
equivalent to $22,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  bacis of comparison  of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a  list
of  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines, 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

in

5.  Works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of  $50,000
per  contract  or  per  bid  package,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount
equivalent to $68,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
after  direct  negotiations  with  contractor&,  in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to the Bank and only to the extent allowed by

- 25  -

paragraph  3.5  of  the  Guidelines.  Such  procedures  shall,  inter  alia,
require  that  contract  prices  be  consistent  with  the  regionalized
reference  prices  determined  by  the  Guarantor  pursuant  to  Section
3.03  (b) of the Guarantee Agreement. If such contractors are School
Councils,  the Bank shall not finance  the labor costs  of  the works
undertaken by such contractors.

Books  and  printed  materials  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the
6. 
equivalent  of  $10,000  per  contract  or  per  bid  package,  up  to  an
aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  $6,100,000,  may  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  after  direct  negotiations  with  suppliers,  in
accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  only  to  the
extent allowed by paragraph 3.5 of  the Guidelines.

Part D: 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final

1. 
contracts:

(a) 

(v) 

(ii) 

the  first 

the  first 

The  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  4  of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (i) each
three
contract  covered  by  Part  A  of  this  Section; 
contracts,  each  for  a  separate  Project  State,  covered  by  Part  C.1  of
this  Section;  (iii) the first contract  covered by Part C.2 of  this
Section  and  procured  pursuant to  either  Part  B.6  (c),  C.7  or  C.10  of
contract  covered  by  Part  C.2  of  this
the  Project;  (iv)  the  first 
Section  and  procured  pursuant  to  either  Part  B.1,  B.2, B.4  or  B.5  of
contract  covered  by  Part  C.2  of  this
the  Project; 
Section and procured pursuant to Part B.3  of the Project;  (vi) the
three  contracts  (valued  at  or  above  $50,000  equivalent),  each
first 
for  a  separate  Project  State,  covered  by  Part  C.3  of  this  Section
the
and  procured  pursuant  to  Part  B.6  (a)  of  the  Project; 
three  contracts  (valued  at  or  above  $50,000  equivalent),  each
first 
for  a  separate  Project  State,  covered  by  Part  C.3  of  this  Section
the
and  procured  pursuant  to  Part  B.6  (b)  of  the  Project;  (viii) 
first  contract  (valued at  or  above  $50,000 equivalent)  covered by
Part C.4  of  this Section and  procured  rsuant to either  Part B.6
contract  covered  by
(c),  C.7  or  C.10  of  the  Project;  (ix) 
Part C.4 of this Section and procured pursuant to either Part B.1,
B.2, B.4  or B.5 of the Project;  and  (x) the first contract covered
by  Part  C.4  of  this  Section  and procured  pursuant  to  Part  B.3  of  the
Project.  Where  payments  for  any  such  contract  are  to be  made  out  of
the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure
that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  the  contract  required  to  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall  be

the  first 

(vii) 

- 26  -

furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the  first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of  such contract.

(b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragrAphe 3 and 4
of  Appendix  1 to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply.  Where  payments  for  such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  said  procedures
shall  be  modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  the
information  required  to  be
contract 
furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  3  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence  to  be  furnished
pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  5  to  this  Agreement.

together  with 

the  other 

(a)  The  provisions  of  the  preceding  subparagraph  (b)  shall
not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  withdrawals  are  to  be
made on the basis of statements of  expenditure.

The  figure  of  15Z  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes  of

2. 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Emploment  of  Consultants

In  order  to  assist  the  Guarantor  and/or  CONAFE in  carrying  out
1. 
the  Guarantor  shall  employ  and/or  cause  CONAPE  to
the  Project, 
employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and
conditions  of  employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such
consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles  and
procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the  Bank  in  August  1981  (the
time-based  assignments,  such
Consultant  Guidelines).  For  complex, 
consultants  shall  be  employed  under  contracts  using  the  standard
form  of  contract  for  consultants'  services  issued  by  the  Bank,  with
such  modifications  as  shall  have  been  agreed  by  the  Bank.  Where  no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
other standard forms agreed with the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,
2. 
the  provisions  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  requiring  prior  Bank
selection  procedures,
review  or  approval  of  budgets,  short  lists, 
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts  for consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or to contracts  for individual
consultants  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  each.
However,  this  exception  to prior  Bank  review  shall  not  apply  to:  (a)

27  -

(b)  single  source
the  terms  of  reference  for  such  contracts; 
selection  of  consulting  firms;  (c)  assignments  of  a  critical  nature
(d)  amendments  of  contracts
as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank; 
for  consulting  firms  estimated to  cost  $100,000  equivalent  or  above
or  for  individual  consultants  estimated  to  cost  $50,000  equivalent
of  contracts  for  consaulting  firms
umendments 
or  above;  or 
raising  the  contract  value  to  $100j,000  equivalent  or above  or for
individual  consultants  raising  the  contract  value  to  $50,000
equivalent  or  above.

(e) 

- 28 -

SCHEDULE  5

Special  Account

1. 

For the purposes  of this  Schedule:

(a) 

(1)
through (11)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1  of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories 

(b) 

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  required  for
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement;  and

(c) 

the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited  in  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph  3  (a)  of  this
Schedule.

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively
2. 
for  eligible  expenditures  in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

that
After  the  Bank  has  received  evidence  satisfactory  to  it 
3. 
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to  replenish  the
Special Account shall be made as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of 

the  Authorized  Allocation, 

the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a
deposit  or  deposits  which  do  not  exceed  the  aggregate  amount  of  the
Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the
Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan
Account  and  deposit  in  the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) 

(i) 

the
For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, 
Borrower  shall furnish to  the Bank requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals as  the Bank  shall specify.

(ii) 

Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,
the  Bank  the
the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to 

- 29  -

documents  and  other  evidence  required  pursuant
to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment
or  payments  in  respect  of which  replenishment  is
requested.  On  the  basis  of  each  such  request,
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as  the Borrower
shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been
to
shown  by  said  documents  and  other  evidence 
have  been  paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for
eligible  expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall be withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
the
the  respective  eligible  Categories, 
Account  under 
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by  said
documents  and  other  evidence.

and 

in 

the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as 

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
4. 
the  Bank  shall
Account, 
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents  and  other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
5. 
Schedule, the Bank  shall  not be  required to make  further deposits
into the Special Account:

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall have  determined  that  all
further  withdrawals  should  be made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the
Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph 
Agreement;  or

(a)  of  Section  2.02  of 

this

(b)  once  the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated
less  the  amount  of  any  outstanding
to  the  eligible  Categories, 
special  commitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Seetion  5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the  Authorized  Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories
shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to
the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall be  made  only  after  and
to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such
amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in  the  Special  Account  as  of  the  date

- 30  -

of  such  notice  vill 
expenditures.

be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  eligible

(a)  If the  Bank shall have determined at  any time that any
6. 
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure
an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this
or  in 
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the
Bank, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from the  Bank:  (A)
provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request;  or  (B)
deposit into the Special Account  (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund  to  the  Bank)  an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the  portion  thereof not so  eligible or justified. Unless  the Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by  the  Bank  into  the
Special  Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided  such
evidence  or  made  such  deposit  or  refund,  as  the  case  may  be.

(b) 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
amount  outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to
the  Borrower
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, 
shall,  promptly  upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank  such
outstanding  amount.

(c) 

The  Borrower  may, upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the
the  Special

Bank  all  or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit  in 
Account.

(d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),

(b) and  (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  is a  true copy  of

the original  in the archives of the International  Bank

for  Reconstruction and  Development.

FOR SECRETARY

