LOAN  NUMBER  3793  KO

(Ports  Development  and  Environmental  Improvement  Proj ect)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC  OF  KOREA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

M 

63 

,  1994

IDA  NDMBER  3793  KO

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated 

03  ,  1994,  between  REPUBLIC OF
KOREA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank).

t0*tA&Hk- 

WHEREAS  the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to  the
to
the  financing  of

feasibility 
this  Agreement,  has  requested  the  Bank  to  assist 
the  Project;  and

of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2 

and  priority 

in 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on  the basis, inter  alia, of  the
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and

foregoing, 
conditions  set  forth in  this  Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE  the parties  hereto hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions;  Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  "General Conditions Applicable  to  Loan and
Guarantee Agreements"  of the  Bank, dated January 1, 1985,  with the
modifications  set  forth  below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral  part of  this Agreement:

(a)  The  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  is  deleted.

(b) 

In  Section  6.02,  sub-paragraph  (k)  is 

sub-paragraph 

(1)  and  a  new  sub-paragraph 

(k) 

re-lettered 
is  added  to  read:

as

"(k) 

An  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen
under  which  any  further  withdrawals  under  the
Loan  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  provisions
of  Article  III,  Section  3  of  the  Bank's  Articles
of  Agreement."

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several terms  defined in the General Conditions have the  respective
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have
the following meanings:

(a) 

"MOST"  means 

the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Science  and

Technology;

-2-

(b) 

"KMPA" means the  Korea Maritime  Port Administration, a

central  administrative  organ  of  the  Borrower  under  the  jurisdiction
of  the Borrower's Ministry of  Transportation;

(c) 

"KCTA"  means  the  Korea  Container  Terminal  Authority,
established and operating under the control  of KMPA pursuant  to the
Borrower's Law No.  4191  dated December  30,  1989;

(d)  "1973/78  MARPOL  Convention"  means 
Conventic, for  the  Prevention of  Pollution  from Ships;

the  International

(e) 

."Special  Account"  means 

the  account  referred  to 

in

Section 2.02  (b) of  this Agreement;

(f) 

"Affected  Persons" 

"Affected  Person"  and 

mean
individually the  person or  entity and  collectively the  persons  or
entities whose  right,  title or  interest  in any property, business,
occupation  or  work  is  acquired  or  terminated  or  is  intended  to  be
acquired  or  terminated or whose  property is  otherwise  possessed or
intended to be possessed and who,  as  a  result  thereof,  has been or
would  be  displaced  or  dispossessed  from  his/their 
habitat  or  land  or
precluded from carrying out  his/their business,  occupation or work
on account  of  the  execution of  Part B  (iii) of  the  Project;  and

(g) 

"Category"  means  a  withdrawal  category  set  forth  in  the

table  in paragraph  1 of  Schedule  1  to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II

The Loan

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the

this  Agreement,
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in 
various currencies that shall  have an aggregate value equivalent to
($100,000,000),  being  the
the  amount  of  one  hundred  million  dollars 
sum  of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  with  each  withdrawal
valued by the  Bank as  of  the  date of  such withdrawal.

Section  2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from
the  Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions  of Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so
in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works
agree,  to  be  made) 
and  services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2 
to
this Agreement  and to  be financed out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan.

-3-

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,
open  and  maintain  in  the  Korea  Exchange  Bank  a  special  deposit
account  in  United  Stated  dollars  on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory  to the  Bank, including appropriate  protection against
set-off,  seizure  or  attachment.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,
the Special Account  shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of  Schedule 5  to  this Agreement.

Section 2.03.  The  Closing Date  shall  be December  31,  2000  or
date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly

such  later 
notify  the Borrower of  such later date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment
charge  at 
the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one  percent  (3/4  of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

at 

Section  2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest 

on  the
principal amount of  the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time  to
time, 
a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of  one  percent  (1/2 of  1%).  On each of  the
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, 
the  Borrower
shall  pay 
accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
during  the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
applicable  during such  Interest  Period.

interest 

(b) 

As  soon as  practicable after the  end of  each  Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings determined in  respect  of  such Semester.

(c) 

For the  purposes of  this Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

"Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period
ending  on  the  date  immediately  preceding  each
date  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this
Agreement,  beginning  with  the  Interest  Period  in
which this Agreement  is  signed.

"Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,
as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and
expressed  as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the
outstanding  borrowings  of  the  Bank  drawn  down
after  June  30,  1982,  excluding  such borrowings
or  portions  thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to

-

4 

-

fund:  (A) the Bank's investments;  and  (B) loans
which  may  be  made  by  the  Bank  after 
July  1,  1989
bearing  interest 
rates  determined  otherwise  than
as  provided in paragraph  (a) of  this  Section.

(iii) 

"Semester"  means  the 
second six months  of  a  calendar year.

first 

six  months  or  the

(d) 

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this  Section  shall  be amended to read  as  follows:

On such  date  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  no  less  than  six
of

(b) and  (c) 

(iii) 

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal  amount of  the  Loan withdrawn and  outstanding
from time  to  time,  at  a  rate for  each Quarter  equal  to
the Cost of  Qualified Borrowings  determined in  respect
of  the preceding  Quarter, plus  one-half of  one percent
(1/2  of  1%).  On each  of  the  dates  specified  in  Section
2.06  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  pay  interest
accrued  on the principal  amount  outstanding during the
preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rates
applicable  during  such  Interest  Period."

" (b)  As  soon  as  practicable  after 

the  end  of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of
such Quarter."

"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter' means  a  three-month period
commencing  on  January  1,  April  1,  July  1  or  October  1  in
a  calendar year."

Section  2.06. 

Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually on April  1 and October  1  in each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  in accordance  with the  amortization schedule  set  forth  in
Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III

Execution  of  the  Project

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  and, to  this  end:

(i) 

through  E 

(v)  of  the  Project; 

shall:  (A) through KMPA, carry out  Parts A,  B,  C  and E
(ii) 
through  KCTA,
carry  out  Part  D  of  the  Project;  and  (C) through MOST,
carry  out  Part  E  (i) 
of  the  Project,  all  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,  environmental,  engineering,
ports  and  financial  practices,  and  shall  provide,
promptly as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services and
other  resources  required for  the  Project;

(B) 

(ii)  without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)
(i)  of  this  Section and  except  as  the Borrower and  the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, 
the  Borrower  shall  carry
out,  through  KMPA,  Parts  A,  B,  C  and  E 
(ii) 
through  E
(v)  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Implementation
Program  set  forth  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement;  and

(iii)  without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)
(i)  of  this Section and  except  as  the Borrower and  the
the  Borrower  shall  carry
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, 
out,  through KCTA, Part  D  of  the  Project  in accordance
with the Implementation Program set  forth in Section II
of Schedule  6  to this Agreement.

In 

(b) 

the  event  that  during  Project  implementation 

the
Borrower shall  decide to  entrust private  sector  firms  to  carry out
of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  undertakes,
the  work  under  Part  B  (iii) 
without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this
Section,  to make  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  through  KMPA
and  Pusan  City,  with  such  private  firms,  including  the  prompt
issuance  by  the  City  of  Pusan  of  the  required  approvals  and  permits.

Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement of  the  goods, works  and consultants'  services  required
C,  D  and  E  of  the  Project  and  to  be
for  Parts  A,  B 

(ii), 

(i), 

B 

financed out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by the
provisions  of  Schedule 4  to  this  Agreement.

Section  3.03.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  resettlement
and rehabilitation  of  the  Affected  People  shall  be  carried out  in
accordance with the  following principles  and  objectives:

(a)  Affected People  shall  be  consulted  and  participate  in
the  design  and  implementation  of  the  resettlement  activities;

cash  and/or 

(b) 
at  least  thirty days  prior  to  their  displacement each
Affected  People  shall  be  provided  with  a  compensation  package,
in 
kind,  sufficient 
that  each
Affected  People  shall  improve,  or  at  least  regain,  the
standard  of  living  and  means  of  livelihood  they  were  enjoying
prior to  their displacement;  and

to  ensure 

in 

compensation 

(c)  each 
(i)
compensation  for  the  assets  lost,  at  least,  at  replacement
costs;  and 
adequate  subsistence  allowances  during  the
transition period of  resettlement.

include: 

package 

shall 

(ii) 

Section  3.04.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of

Article  IX  of  the  General  Conditions,  the Borrower  shall:

(a)  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later 

than  six  (6)
months  after  the  Closing Date  or  such  later  date as  may be  agreed
for  this 
purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  a  plan,  of  such
scope  and in  such detail as  the Bank  shall reasonably request,  for
the  future  operation of  the  Project;

(b) afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views

with  the Borrower  on said plan;  and

(c) 

thereafter,  carry  out  said  plan  with  due  diligence  and

efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  appropriate  practices,  taking  into
account  the Bank's  comments  thereon.

ARTICLE  IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01.  (a) The  Borrower shall  maintain or  cause to be
maintained  records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect  in  accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources  and

- 7 

-

expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the  departments  or
agencies  of  the  Borrower, 
Maritime
Port  Administration  and  KCTA,  responsible  for  carrying  out  the
Project  or any part  thereof.

including  KMPA  and  each  District 

(b) 

The  Borrower shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a)  of  this 
Section  including  those
for  the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal  year
audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate. auditing
principles  consistently applied, by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank;

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in
any  case  not  later 
the  end
of  each  such year,  the  report of  such  audit  by
said auditors,  of  such scope and in such detail
as  the  Bank  shall  have  reasonably  requested;  and

than  six  months  after 

to 

furnish 
the  Bank  such  other 
information
concerning  said  records  and  accounts  and  the
audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to
time  reasonably  request.

(c) 

For  all  expenditures  with respect  to  which withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure, the  Borrower  shall:

(i)  maintain  or 

cause 

accordance  with  paragraph 
records 
and 
accounts 
expenditures;

to  be  maintained,  in
(a)  of  this  Section,
such

reflecting 

(ii) 

retain, until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank
has  received  the  audit  report  for  the  fiscal
year  in which the  last  withdrawal  from the Loan
Account  or  payment  out  of  the  Special  Account
was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills, 
receipts  and  other  documents)
evidencing  such expenditures;

(iii)  enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine

such records;  and

-8-

(iv) 

in 

the  annual  audit  referred  to 

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included 
in
paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the
report  of  such  audit  contains  a  separate  opinion
by  said  auditors  as  to  whether  the  statements  of
expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal 
year,
together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
controls  involved  in 
their 
preparation,  can  be
relied upon  to support  the related  withdrawals.

Section  4.02.  The  provisions  of  Section  4.02  of  the  Loan
Agreement  entered  into  between  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  Bank
dated  August  6, 
(Pusan  Port
Project)  is  hereby  deleted  in 

respect  of  Loan  No. 

its  entirety.

2726-KO 

1986 

in 

ARTICLE  V

Effective Date;  Termination

Section  5.01.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this

Agreement  is hereby  specified for the  purposes of  Section  12.04  of
the General  Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of  the Borrower;  Addresses

Section  6.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is
designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of
Section 11.03  of  the  General  Conditions.

Section  6.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the

purposes of  Section 11.01  of  the General  Conditions:

For  the Borrower:

Ministry of  Finance
Republic  of Korea
Kwachon, Korea

Cable  address: 

Telex:

MOF 
Kwachon, Korea

K23243

For  the  Bank:

International  Bank  for

Reconstruction and Development

1818 H  Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (RCA),
82987  (FTCC),
64145  (WUI) or
197688  (TRT)

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto,  acting through  their
duly  authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be
signed  in 
the  District  of  Columbia,  United
States  of America, as  of  the  day and year first  above written.

respective  names  in 

their 

-9-

By

REPUBLIC OF KOREA

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Regional  Vice President
East Asia  and Pacific

- 10  -

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal  of  the  Proceeds  of  the  Loan

The  taole  below  sets 

1. 
forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of  the Loan to  each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures  for items  so  to be  financed  in  each Category:

Amount  of  the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed  in 
Dollar  Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to  be  Financed

52,000,000 

35%

Catecor 

(1) 

Civil  works 
under Parts  B  (i)
and B  (ii) of  the
Project

(2)  Equipment under: 

(a)  Parts A  and  C 

15,500,000 

of  the 
Project 

(b)  Part D  of 

the Project 

30,000,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures,
100%  of  local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75%  of  local
expenditures  for
other  items pro-
cured locally

(3)  Consultants' 

2,500,000 

100%

services  and
training under
Part E  of
the  Project

TOTAL 

100,000,000

2. 

For  the purposes of  this  Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in
the  currency  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for
goods  or services  supplied from the territory  of  any country  other
than that of  the  Borrower;  and

- 11  -

(b) 

the  term  "local  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the
currency of the  Borrower or  for goods or services  supplied from the
territory of  the  Borrower.

3. 
withdrawals  shall  be  made in  respect  of:

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no

(a)  Category 

(1)  unless  the  Borrower  has  furnished  to  the
Bank  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the  Borrower's  Ministry
of  Environment  has  provided  its  environmental  clearance  to  the
carrying  out  of  Part  B  of  the  Project;  and

(b)  payments  made  for  expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement,  except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  to
on  account
exceed  $200,000,  may  be  made  in  respect  of  Category 
of  payments made  for  expenditures  before  that  date  but  after April
19,  1994.

(3), 

The  Bank may require withdrawals  from the  Loan Account  to  be
4. 
made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures  for
(a)  goods  and  works  under  contracts  not  exceeding  $300,000
services  of  consulting  firms  under  contracts  not
equivalent; 
(c)  services  of  individual
exceeding  $100,000  equivalent; 
consultants  under  contracts  not  exceeding  $50,000  equivalent;  and
(d)  training  regardless  of  the  cost  thereof,  all  under  such  terms
and conditions  as  the Bank shall  specify by notice to  the Borrower.

(b) 

- 12  -

SCHEDULE  2

Description of  the  Project

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  assist the  Borrower  to:
(a) mitigate the  adverse environmental  effects  caused in the Korean
maritime  transport; 
(b)  reduce  air  pollution, 
level  of  noise  and
traffic  congestion in  the  City of  Pusan;  and  (c) strengthen  KMPA's
capacity  to  adequately  address  environmental  issues  in  maritime  port
development  and operation.

The Project  consists  of  the  following parts,  subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon
from time to  time  to achieve  such objectives:

Construction  of  facilities 

PART A: 
in  selected  maritime  ports  of
the Borrower for  the collection, storage, treatment and disposal  of
liquid wastes, garbage and sewage  from  ships covered by the  1973/78
MARPOL  Convention.

(ii) 

a  breakwater; 

Construction of  a maritime  port-cum-industrial  complex
Part  B: 
at  Dadaepo  located  on  the  outskirts  of  the  City  of  Pusan  including:
(i) 
dredging,  preparation  and  maintenance  of  the
access channel;  (iii) reclamation works, about 2000 meters of  liner
wharves  and  the  required  infrastructure  for  the  establishment  of  an
adjacent  industrial  complex  to  house  existing  timber  and  marine
product  processing  plants  and  other  industrial  plants  located  in  the
City  of  Pusan,  including  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of  the
Affected Persons.

Design and  installation of  a vessel  traffic  management
PART C: 
system  to  monitor,  regulate  and  control  the  movements  of  maritime
vessels  at  selected  maritime  ports,  including  the  ports  of  Pusan  and
Inchon/Asan.

the  maritime
Construction  of  four  container  berths  in 
PART D: 
port  of  Pusan,  about  1,400  meters  long,  each  berth  capable  of
accommodating  vessels  of  about  50,000  DWT,  and  each  to  include  a
supporting  container  stacking  area,  a  container  freight  station,  two
quay  side  container  cranes,  a  maintenance  shop  and  a  terminal
office.

- 13  -

PART  E: 
(i)  Development  and  operation  of  a  comprehensive  program
for  maritime  monitoring  and  assessment  of  the  Yellow  Sea's  large
marine  ecosystem, 
including  provision  of  equipment  and  training,
inter  alia, 
of  the  Korea  Ocean  Research  and  Development
Institute.

for  staff 

(ii)  Carrying  out  of  a  study  to  formulate  and  evaluate
investment  options,  policies  and  strategies  for  purposes  of  carrying
out  Part A  of  the  Project,  including detailed engineering.

(iii) 

to
enhance  the  knowledge  of  KMPA  staff  on  environmental  aspects  of
maritime port development,  construction  and operation.

Carrying  out  of  a  comprehensive 

training  program 

(iv)  Carrying  out  of  a  maritime  port  engineering  and

operational  training program  for  staff  of  KMPA.

(a) 

(v)  Strengthening of  KMPA institutional  capability  through
the  development  of: 
a  system  to  privatize  the  multi-purpose
terminals at  the Borrower's 27  maritime international ports;  (b) an
improved  system  of  performance  agreements  with  various  terminal
operating  companies;  (c)  measures  to  enhance  management  and
coordination  of  the  Borrower's  maritime  environmental  improvement
(d)  standard  operating  procedures  and  engineering
program;  and 
to
designs  for  the  retrofit 
minimize the  pollution caused by their operations.

of  existing  maritime  port  facilities 

The  Project  is  expected  to  be  completed by  December  31,

1999.

- 14 

-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization  Schedule

Date Payment Due 

On each April  1  and October 1

Payment  of  Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

beginning April  1,  2000
through April  1,  2009 

5,000,000

and on  October  1,  2009 

5,000,000

*The figures  in this column represent dollar equivalents  determined
as  of  the  respective dates  of  withdrawal.  See General  Conditions,
Sections  3.04  and 4.03.

- 15  -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant  to  Section  3.04 

the
premium payable  on the principal  amount of  any maturity of  the Loan
to be  prepaid shall be  the  percentage specified for  the  applicable
time of  prepayment below:

(b)  of  the  General  Conditions, 

Time of Prepayment 

Premium

The  interest  rate
(expressed as  a
percentage per  annum)
applicable  to  the Loan
on  the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than  three years 
before maturity

More  than three  years but 

not  more than six years
before maturity

More  than six years but 

not  more than 11  years
before maturity

More  than 11  years but  not 

more than  13  years
before maturity

More  than 13  years before 

maturity

0.20

0.40

0.73

0.87

1.00

- 16  -

SCHEDULE  4

Procurement  and  Consultants'  Services

Section I.  Procurement  of  Goods and Works

Part  A:  International  Competitive  Bidding

1. 
Except  as  provided  in  Part  C  hereof,  goods  and  works  shall  be
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  procedures
consistent  with  those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the
"Guidelines  for  Procurement  under 
IDA  Credits"
published by the  Bank  in May 1992  (the Guidelines).

IBRD  Loans  and 

(a) For fixed-price contracts,  the  invitation to bid referred
to  in  paragraph  2.13  of  the  Guidelines  shall  provide  that,  when
contract  award is  delayed beyond  the original  bid validity period,
the  successful  bidder's  bid  price  will  be  increased  for  each  week  of
delay  by  two  predisclosed  correction  factors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
one  to be  applied to all  foreign  currency  components  and the other
to  the  local currency component  of the bid price.  Such an increase
shall not  be  taken into  account  in  the  bid evaluation.

(b) In  the procurement  of  goods  and  works  in  accordance with
this  Part  A,  the  Borrower  shall  use  the  relevant  standard  bidding
documents  issued  by  the  Bank,  with  suc,.  modifications  thereto  as  the
Bank  shall  have  agreed  to  be  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the
Project.  Where  no  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  have  been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower  shall  use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized  standard forms  agreed with the
Bank.

2. 
under  Parts  A  and  B 
provided in paragraph 2.10  of  the Guidelines.

Bidders  for  equipment  under  Part  C  of  the  Project  and  works
(i)  of  the  Project  shall  be  prequalified  as

Part  B:  Preference for  Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement  of goods  in accordance with the procedures
described  in  Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured 
in  Korea  may  be
granted a  margin of preference  in accordance  with, and subject  to,
the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and
paragraphs  1 through  4  of  Appendix 2  thereto.

- 17  -

Part  C:  Other Procurement  Procedures

1. 
Goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $300,000  or  less  per
contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  $3,000,000,  may  be
procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to  the  Bank.

Equipment  for  environmental protection  estimated to  cost  the
2. 
equivalent  of  $200,000  or  less  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate
amount  equivalent  to  $3,000,000,  may  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of  price  quotations  obtained  from
at  least 
three  suppliers  from  at  least  three  different  countries
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with  procedures
acceptable  to  the  Bank.

Part  D:  Review by the Bank  of  Procurement Decisions

1. 

Review of prequalification:

With  respect  to  the  prequalification  of  bidders  as  provided  in
(b)  hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraph  1  of

(1) 

Part  A 
Appendix 1  to  the  Guidelines shall  apply.

Review  of  invitations  to  bid  and  of  proposed  awards  and  final

2. 
contracts:

(a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  goods  and  works
the  procedures
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $300,000  or  more, 
set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines
shall  apply. Where payments  for  such contract  are to be made out of
the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure
that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  the  contract  required  to  be
(d)  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2 
furnished to  the Bank prior to  the  making of  the  first payment  out
of  the Special  Account  in respect  of  such  contract.

(b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  the
preceding paragraph, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
Where  payments  for
of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply. 
such  contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  said
procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies
of the  contract  together with the other  information  required to be
furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  3  shall  be

- 18  -

furnished  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence 
pursuant  to paragraph 4  of  Schedule  5  to  this  Agreement.

to  be  furnished

(c)  The  provisions  of  the  preceding  subparagraph  (b)  shall  not
apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account are  to be  made on  the basis of  statements  of  expenditure.

3. 
paragraph 4  of Appendix  1  to  the Guidelines.

The  figure  of  15%  is 

hereby  specified  for  purposes  of

Section  II.  Employment  of  Consultants

the  Borrower 

In  order  to  assist 

1. 
in  carrying  out  Parts  A,  B
(i),  B  (ii),  C,  and E  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  employ
consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and
conditions  of  employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such
consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles  and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants by World Bank Borrowers  and by the  World
Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the  Bank  in  August  1981  (the
Consultant  Guidelines)  . For  complex, 
the
Borrower  shall  employ  such  consultants  under  contracts  using  the
standard  form of  contract  for  consultants'  services  issued  by the
Bank,  with  such  modifications  as  shall  have  been  agreed  by  the  Bank.
Where  no  relevant  standard  contract  documents  have  been  issued  by
the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  use  other  standard  forms  agreed with
the  Bank.

time-based  assignments, 

2. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,
the  provisions  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  requiring  prior  Bank
review  or  approval  of  budgets,  short  lists,  selection procedures,
letters  of  invitation, proposals,  evaluation reports  and  contracts
shall  not  apply  to 
(a)  contracts  for  the  employment  of  consulting
firms  estimated to cost  less  than $100,000  equivalent each, or  (b)
contracts  for  the  employment of  individuals  estimated to  cost  less
than  $50,000  equivalent  each.  However,  said  exceptions  to  prior
Bank review shall not  apply to  (a) the  terms  of  reference  for such
contracts,  (b)  single-source  selection  of  consulting  firms,  (c)
assignments  of  a  critical  nature,  as  reasonably determined  by  the
Bank,  (d) amendments  to  contracts  for  the  employment  of  consulting
firms  raising  the  contracts value  to  $100,000  equivalent or  above,
to  contracts  for  the  employment  of  individual
or 
consultants  raising  the  contract  value  to  $50,000  equivalent  or
above.

amendments 

(e) 

- 19  -

SCHEDULE  5

Special  Account

1. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule:

(a) 
and  (3);

the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories 

(1), 

(2)

(b) 

the  term  "eligible  expenditures"  means  expenditures 

in
respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  required  for
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
Categories  in  accordance
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible 
with the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement;  and

term 

(c)  the 

amount
equivalent  to  $4,000,000  to be  withdrawn from  the Loan Account  and
deposited  in  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a)  of  this
Schedule.

"Authorized  Allocation"  means 

an 

Payments out of  the Special Account shall  be made exclusively
2. 
for eligible expenditures  in accordance with the provisions  of  this
Schedule.

After the Bank  has  received evidence satisfactory to  it  that
3. 
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to  replenish  the
Special  Account  shall  be made  as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Borrower
shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a  deposit  or
deposits  which do not exceed the  aggregate amount of  the Authorized
Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank
shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and
deposit  in  the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the
Borrower  shall  have  requested.

(b)  (i) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals  as  the  Bank shall  specify.

- 20  -

(ii) 

other  evidence 

Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish to  the Bank  the  documents
and 
required  pursuant  to
paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or
payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
requested.  On  the  basis  of  each  such  request,
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into
the  Special  Account  such amount  as  the  Borrower
shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been  shown
by  said  documents  and  other  evidence  to  have  been
paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
Account  under 
the
respective equivalent amounts,  as shall  have been justified by said
documents  and other evidence.

the  respective  eligible  Categories, 

and 

in 

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
4. 
Account,  the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents  and  other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures.

5. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule,  the Bank  shall  not  be  required  to  make  further  deposits
into  the  Special  Account:

(a) if,  at  any time,  the Bank  shall  have determined that  all
further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the
Loan Account  in accordance with the provisions  of Article V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph 
Agreement;  or

(a)  of  Section  2.02  of 

this

(b) once  the  total 

unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to
the  eligible Categories,  less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the
General  Conditions  with  respect  to  the  Project,  shall  equal  the
equivalent  of  twice the  amount of  the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal  from the Loan Account of  the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories
shall  follow such procedures as  the Bank shall  specify by notice to

- 21  -

the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after 
and
to  the extent that  the Bank  shall have been satisfied that all  such
amounts  remaining on  deposit  in  the  Special Account  as  of  the date
of  such  notice  will  be  utilized 
expenditures.

in  making  payments  for  eligible

If 

(a) 

the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
6. 
(i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure
payment  out  of  the  Special  Account: 
or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this
by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified 
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly upon notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)
provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request;  or  (B)
deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if 
the  Bank  shall  so  request,
refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  or
the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified. 
Unless  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by  the  Bank  into  the
Special Account  shall be made  until  the Borrower  has provided such
evidence or  made  such deposit  or  refund,  as  the  case may be.

If 

(b) 

the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
amount  outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required to
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the  Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice  from the Bank,  refund to  the  Bank such
outstanding  amount.

(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to  the  Bank,  refund to  the
the  Special

or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit 

in 

Bank  all 
Account.

(d)  Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a), 

(b)
and  (c) of  this  Schedule  shall  be credited  to the  Loan Account  for
subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

- 22  -

Schedule 6

Implementation Program

Section  I

1. 
to ensure  that KMPA shall:

The  Borrower  shall  take  all 

such  actions  as  shall  be  necessary

(a)  carry  on  its  operations  and  conduct  its  affairs  in
accordance  with sound administrative,  financial,  environmental  and
port  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management  assisted by competent  staff  in  adequate numbers.

(b) operate  and maintain its  plant, machinery,  equipment and
other property, and from time  to time, promptly as  needed, make all
necessary  repairs  and  renewals  thereof,  all 
in  accordance  with  sound
engineering,  financial,  environmental and ports  practices.

(c) take  out  and maintain with responsible  insurers, or make
other  provision  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for,  insurance  against  such
risks  and  in  such  amounts  as  shall  be  consistent  with  appropriate
practice.

The Borrower  shall  take  all 

2. 
such  actions  as  shall  be  necessary
to  ensure  that  KMPA  shall  resettle 
and  rehabilitate  the  Affected
Persons  in  accordance with  the principles  and objectives  set  forth
in  Section 3.03  of  this  Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  take  all 

3. 
such  actions  as  shall  be  necessary
to ensure  that  KMPA  shall  produce,  for  each  of  the  Borrower's  fiscal
year after  the Borrower's  fiscal year  ending on December  31,  1995,
funds  from internal  sources  equivalent  to  not  less  than  20%  of  the
annual  average  of  KMPA's  capital  expenditures  incurred,  or  expected
to be  incurred, for  that  year and the  next  following  fiscal  year.

For the  purposes of  this  paragraph:

(a)  The  term  "funds  from  internal  sources"  means  the
aggregate amount  of  cash and marketable  securities  held
at  the beginning of  the  fiscal year plus  the difference
between:

- 23  -

(i) 

(ii) 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to
operations, 
consumer  deposits  and  consumer
contributions  in  aid  of  construction,  net  non-
operating  income  and  any  reduction  in  working
capital other than  cash;  and

the  sum  of  all 
expenses  related  to  operations,
including  administration,  adequate  maintenance
and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
(excluding  provision  for  depreciation  and  other
non-cash  operating  charges), 
service
cash  dividends  and  other  cash
all 
requirements, 
distributions  of  surplus,  increase  in  working
capital  other  than  cash  and  other  cash outflows
other  than capital  expenditures.

debt 

(b)  The term  "net non-operating income" means  the difference

between:

(i) 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those
related to  operations;  and

(ii) 

expenses,  including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes,  incurred in the  generation  of  revenues  in
(a) above.

(c)  The  term  "working  capital  other  than  cash"  means  the
difference  between  current  assets  excluding  cash  and
current  liabilities  at  the end  of  each  fiscal  year.

(d)  The  term  "current  assets  excluding  cash"  means  all  assets
the  ordinary  course  of
other  than  cash  which  could  in 
business  be  converted  into  cash  within  twelve  months,
including  accounts  receivable,  marketable  securities,
inventories  and  pre-paid  expenses  properly  chargeable  to
operating expenses  within the  next  fiscal  year.

(e)  The 

term  "current  liabilities" 

means  all 

liabilities

which  will  become  due  and  payable  or  could  under
circumstances  then  existing  be  called  for  payment  within
customer
twelve  months, 
advances,  debt service  requirements,  taxes  and payments
in  lieu of  taxes,  and dividends.

including  accounts  payable, 

- 24  -

(f)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate
if

amount  of  repayments  (including  sinking  fund  payments, 
any) of,  and interest  and other  charges on,  debt.

(g)  The  term  "capital  expenditures"  means  all  expenditures  on
account  of  fixed  assets,  including  interest  charged  to
construction, related  to operations.

(h)  Whenever  for  the  purposes  of 

this 

Section  it  shall  be
necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of  the  currency  of  the
Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another  currency,  such
valuation  shall  be made  on  the  basis  of  the  prevailing
lawful rate of  exchange at which such other  currency is,
at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the
the  absence  of
purposes  of  servicing  such  debt,  or, 
such rate, on the basis  of a rate  of exchange acceptable
to  the Bank.

in 

The Borrrwer  shall,  before September  1  in  each of  its  fiscal
4. 
years,  commencing on September 1, 1995 and thereafter, on the basis
of  financial  forecasts,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  the
requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (2) of  this  Schedule  would be
met  in respect  of  such year and the  next  following  fiscal  year and
shall furnish to the Bank, through KMPA, a  copy of  such review upon
its  completion.  If  any such review shows  that the requirements  set
(2)  of  this  Schedule  would  not  be  met  for  the
forth  in  paragraph 
the  Borrower  shall  promptly
fiscal 
take  all  necessary  measures  (including,  without  limitation,
adjustments  of  the  structure  or  levels  of  KMPA's  rates)  in  order  to
meet such requirements.

years  covered  by  such  review, 

By  November  1  of  each  year,  commencing  on  November  1,  1995  and
5. 
thereafter until  the completion of the Project,  the Borrower shall,
through KMPA, furnish to the Bank, for its  review and comments, the
under
proposed  participants  and  programs  for  the  training  activities 
and  E  (iv)  of  the  Project,  and,  thereafter,  implement,
Parts  E  (iii) 
through  KMPA,  such  training  activities  taking  into  account  the
Bank's  comments,  if  any.

By  March  31  of  each  year,  commencing  on  March  31,  1996  and
6. 
thereafter until  the completion of the  Project, the Borrower  shall,
through KMPA, furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its  review and comments,  a
report,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  on  the
environmental  impact of  the  facilities constructed under Part B  of
the  Project.

- 25 

-

Section II

1. 
to  ensure that  KCTA shall:

The  Borrower  shall  take  all 

such  actions  as  shall  be  necessary

(a)  carry  on  its  operations  and  conduct  its  affairs  in
accordance with sound  administrative,  financial,  environmental  and
port  practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and  experienced
management  assisted by competent staff  in  adequate numbers.

(b)  operate  and  maintain  its  plant,  machinery,  equipment  and
other  property,  and  from  time  to  time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all
in  accordance  with  sound
necessary  repairs  and  renewals  thereof,  all 
engineering, financial,  environmental and ports  practices.

(c)  take out  and maintain with responsible insurers,  or make
other  provision  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for,  insurance  against  such
risks  and  in  such  amounts  as  shall  be  consistent  with appropriate
practice.

The  Borrower  shall  take  all 

such  actions  as  shall  be  necessary
2. 
to  ensure  that  KCTA  shall  produce,  for  each  of  the  Borrower's  fiscal
year after the  Borrower's  fiscal  year ending on December  31,  1995,
funds  from internal  sources  equivalent to not  less  than 40%  of  the
annual  average  of  KCTA's  capital  expenditures  incurred,  or  expected
to be  incurred, for  that year  and the  next  following  fiscal  year.

For  the purposes  of  this paragraph:

(a)  The  term  "funds  from  internal  sources"  means  the
aggregate  amount  of  cash and marketable  securities  held
at  the  beginning  of  the  fiscal  year plus  the difference
between:

(i) 

(ii) 

sources  related  to
the  sum  of  revenues  from  all 
operations,  consumer  deposits  and  consumer
contributions  in  aid  of  construction,  net  non-
operating  income  and  any  reduction  in  working
capital other  than cash;  and

expenses  related  to  operations,
the  sum  of  all 
including  administration,  adequate  maintenance
and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
(excluding  provision  for  depreciation  and  other
service
non-cash  operating 

charges), 

debt 

- 26 

-

all 

requirements, 
cash  dividends  and  other  cash
distributions  of  surplus,  increase  in  working
capital  other  than  cash  and  other  cash  outflows
other than  capital  expenditures.

(b)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference

between:

(i) 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those
related to  operations;  and

(ii) 

expenses,  including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes,  incurred  in the generation  of  revenues  in
(a) above.

(c)  The 

term  "working  capital  other  than  cash"  means  the
difference  between  current  assets  excluding  cash  and
current  liabilities at  the  end of  each fiscal  year.

(d)  The  term  "current  assets  excluding  cash"  means  all  assets
the  ordinary  course  of
other  than  cash  which  could  in 
business  be  converted  into  cash  within  twelve  months,
including  accounts  receivable,  marketable  securities,
inventories  and  pre-paid  expenses  properly  chargeable  to
operating expenses  within the next  fiscal  year.

(e)  The 

term  "current 

liabilities" 

means  all 

liabilities

which  will  become  due  and  payable  or  could  under
circumstances  then  existing  be  called  for  payment  within
customer
twelve  months, 
advances,  debt  service  requirements,  taxes  and payments
in  lieu of  taxes,  and  dividends.

including  accounts  payable, 

(f)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate
if

amount  of  repayments  (including  sinking  fund  payments, 
any) of,  and  interest  and other  charges  on,  debt.

(g)  The  term  "capital  expenditures"  means  all  expenditures  on
account  of  fixed  assets,  including  interest  charged  to
construction, related  to  operations.

(h)  Whenever  for  the  purposes  of  this  Section  it 

shall  be
the  currency  of  the
necessary 
Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another  currency,  such
valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the  prevailing

to  value, 

terms  of 

in 

- 27  -

lawful rate of  exchange at which such other currency is,
at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the
purposes  of  servicing  such  debt,  or,  in  the  absence  of
such rate, on the basis  of a rate  of exchange acceptable
to  the  Bank.

The Borrower  shall,  before  September  1  in each  of  its  fiscal
4. 
years,  commencing on September 1,  1995  and thereafter, on the basis
of  financial  forecasts,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  the
(2)  of  this  Schedule  would  be
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph 
met  in  respect  of  such year and  the next  following  fiscal  year  and
shall  furnish to the Bank, through KCTA, a copy of  such review upon
its  completion.  If  any such review shows that the  requirements set
(2)  of  this  Schedule  would  not  be  met  for  the
forth  in  paragraph 
the  Borrower  shall  promptly
fiscal 
take  all  necessary  measures  (including,  without  limitation,
adjustments  of the  structure or  levels of KCTA's rates)  in  order to
meet such requirements.

years  covered  by  such  review, 

By  March  31  of  each  year,  commencing  on  March  31,  1996  and
5. 
thereafter until  the completion  of the Project, the  Borrower shall,
through  KCTA,  furnish to  the  Bank,  for  its  review and  comments,  a
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  on  the
report, 
environmental  impact of  the  facilities  constructed  under Part  B  of
the  Project.

in 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify  that the  foregoing  is a true copy of

the original in  the archives of the International  Bank

for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

FOR SECRETARY

