OFFICIAL

DO)CU  MENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  $3?  RU

Loan  Agreement

(Emergency  Oil Spill  Recovery  and  Mitigation  Project)

RUSSIAN  FEDERATION

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

0  5,1995

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated 

FEDERATION 
(the  Borrower) 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank).

and 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

,  1995,  between  RUSSIAN
FOR

WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself as  to  the  feasibility  and
priority  of the Project described  in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement,  has requested  the Bank
to  assist in  the  financing  of the  Project;

(B) 

the Project will  be carried  out by  OTJSC Komineft  (Komineft)  with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as part  of such  assistance, the  Borrower  will  make  available
to  Komineft  the proceeds  of the Loan  as provided  in  this Agreement;  and

(C) 

the  Borrower 

intends  to  contract 
the  European  Bank  for
Reconstruction  and  Development  (EBRD)  a  loan  (the  EBRD  Loan)  in  an  amount  of
$25,000,000  to  assist in financing  the Project on the terms  and conditions  set  forth  in an
agreement  (the EBRD  Loan  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and
EBRD;  and

from 

WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of the  foregoing,  to
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement  and  in the  Project  Agreement  of even  date  herewith  between  the  Bank and
Komineft;

NOW THEREFORE  the  parties  hereto hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I

General  Conditions;  Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  "General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements"  of the Bank,  dated January  1, 1985,  with the modifications  set forth  below
(the General  Conditions)  constitute an  integral  part  of this Agreement:

(a) 

(b) 

The  last  sentence  of Section  3.02  is  deleted.

The  second  sentence  of Section  5.01  is modified  to  read:

"Except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree,  no
withdrawals  shall  be  made:  (a)  on  account  of  expenditures 
in  the
territories of any country  which is not a member  of the Bank or for goods
produced  in,  or  services  supplied  from,  such  territories;  or  (b)  for  the
purpose  of any  payment  to  persons  or  entities,  or  for  any  import  of

-2-

goods,  if such  payment  or  import,  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Bank,  is
prohibited  by  a  decision  of the  United Nations  Security  Council  taken
under  Chapter VII  of the  Charter  of the  United Nations."

(c) 

In  Section  6.02,  sub-paragraph  (k)  is re-lettered  as sub-paragraph  (1) and

a new  sub-paragraph  (k)  is  added  to read:

An  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen  under  which  any
"(k) 
further  withdrawals  under  the  Loan  would  be  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of Article  III,  Section  3 of the Bank's Articles  of Agreement."

Section  1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms defined  in
the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following
meanings:

(a) 

"Komineft" means OTJSC Komineft  incorporated  under its Charter dated,

and  registered  on  May  6,  1993  (the  "Charter"),  as  amended  from  time to  time;

(b) 

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank  and
Komineft  of even  date  herewith,  as the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to time,  and
such term includes  all  schedules and agreements  supplements'  to the Project Agreement;
and

(c) 

"Subsidiry  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into
between  the  Borrower  and  Komineft pursuant to  Section  3.01  (b) of this Agreement,  as
the same may be  amended from time to time, and. such term  includes  all  schedules to the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.

ARTICLE H

The Loan

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  various  currencies  that  shall
have  an  aggregate  value  equivalent  to  the  amount  of  ninety  nine  million  dollars
($99,000,000),  being  the  sum  of withdrawals  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  with  each
withdrawal  valued by  the  Bank as  of the  date of such withdrawal.

Section  2.02. The  amount of the  Loan may be withdrawn  from the Loan  Account
in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement  for expenditures made

-3-

(or,  if the Bank  shall so  agree, to be made)  in respect of the reasonable cost of goods  and
services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan.

Section  2.03.  The Closing Date shall be  March  31,  1998  or  such later  date as the

Bank  shall establish.  The Bank  shall promptly  notify the  Borrower  of such  later date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall pay to  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  at the
rate  of three-fourths  of one  per  cent  (3/4  of 1%)  per annum  on  the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  not withdrawn  from  time to time. 

I

Section  2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall pay  interest  on the principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a rate  for  each  Interest  Period
equal  to  the  Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester,  plus  one-half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On  each  of the  dates  specified  in
Section  2.06  of this Agreement,  the Borrower  shall pay interest accrued  on the  principal
amount  outstanding dring the preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at the rate  applicable
during  such Interest  Period.

(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of  each  Semester,  the  Bank  shall
notify  the  Borrower  of the  Cost of Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in respect  of such
Semester.

(c) 

For the purposes  of this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

"Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period  ending  on  the  date
immediately  preceding each  date specified in  Section 2.06  of this
Agreement,  beginning  with  the  Interest  Period  in  which  this
Agreement  is  signed.

"Cost  of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,  as  reasonably
determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a. percentage  per
annum,  of the  outstanding borrowings  of the Bank  drawn  down
after  June  30,  1982,  excluding  such  borrowings  or  portions
thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to  fund:  (A)  the  Bank's
investments; and (B)  loans which may be made by the Bank after
July  1, 1989  bearing  interest  rates  determined  otherwise  than  as
provided  in  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section.

(;ii) 

"Semester"  means the  first six months or the  second  six months
of a calendar  year.

-4-

(d) 

On such date  as the Bank may specify by no  less than six months'  notice
to the Borrower,  paragraphs  (a),  (b) and (c) (iii)  of this Section  shall be  amended to read
as follows:

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Quarter
equal  to the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in respect  of the preceding
Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent  (1/2  of 1%).  On each of the dates  specified
in Section  2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower  shall pay interest  accrued  on the
principal  amount  outstanding  during the preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at
the  rates  applicable  during  such  Interest  Period."

"(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of each  Quarter,  the  Bank
shall  notify  the  Borrower  of the  Cost  of Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in
respect  of such Quarter."

"(c) 

(iii) 

'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period  commencing  on

January  1, April  1, July  1 or October  1 in  a calendar  year."

Section  2.06.  Interest  and other  charges  shall  be payable  semi-annually  on  May

1 and November  1 in  each  year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  in

accordance  with the  amortization  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

Section  2.08.  Komineft  is  designated  as  representative  of the  Borrower  for  the
purposes  of taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be taken  under  the provisions  of
Section  2.02  of this Agreement  and  Article  V  of the  General  Conditions.

ARTICLE M

Execution  of the Project

Section  3.01.  (a) The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to the objectives  of the
Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and,  to  this  end,  without  any
limitation  or restriction upon any of its other obligations  under the Loan Agreement,  shall
cause Komineft to  perform  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Project  Agreement
all  the obligations  of Komineft therein set forth,  shall take or cause to be taken all  action,
including  the  provision  of funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources,  necessary  or
appropriate  to  enable  Komineft  to porform  such obligations,  and  shall  not take  or permit
to be taken  any  action  which would  prevent  or  interfere  with  such performance.

-5-

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall relend  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  to  Komineft  under
a subsidiary  loan agreement to be entered  into between the Borrower  and Komineft under
terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank  and  which  shall
include:  (i) fifteen  years maturity  with five years  grace period;  (ii) an interest rate  at the
Bank's  rate as determined  according to the  provisions  of Section 2.05  of this Agreement
plus  0.75%  as premium;  and  (iii)  the foreign  exchange  risk to be  borne  by  Komineft.

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement  in  such manner  as  to protect  the interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank and
to accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan,  and,  except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the Borrower shall not  assign, amend, abrogate  or waive  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any  provision  thereof.

Section  3.02.  The  Bank  and  the  Borrower  hereby  agree  that  the  obligations  set
forth  in  Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and  9.09 of the General  Conditions (relating
to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports,
maintenance  and land acquisition, respectively)  shall be carried  out by  Komineft pursuant
to  Section 2.03  of the Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Remedies  of the Bank

Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section  6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following

additional  events  are  specified:

(a) 
Project  Agreement.

Komineft  shall  have  failed  to perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the

(b) 

As  a  result  of events  which  have  occurred  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement,  an extraordinary  situation  shall have  arisen  which  shall  make  it improbable
that Komineft  will  be  able to perform  its obligations  under  the Project  Agreement.

(c) 

The  Charter shall have been amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so as to affect  materially and adversely  the ability of Komineft  to perform  any of
its obligations  under the  Project  Agreement.

(d) 

The Borrower  or any other authority  having jurisdiction  shall have taken
any action for  the dissolution or disestablishment of Komineft or for the suspension of its
operations.

-6-

(e) 

(i) 

Subject  to  subparagraph  (ii)  of this  paragraph:  (A)  the  right  of
the Borrower  to withdraw the proceeds  of the EBRD Loan  shall
have been suspended, cancelled  or terminated  in whole or in  part,
pursuant to the terms  and conditions  set forth  in the EBRD Loan
Agreement,  or (B)  the EBRD  Loan  shall  have  become  due  and
payable  prior to  the agreed  maturity  thereof.

(ii) 

(A) 

such 

if  the
Subparagraph  (i)  of  this  paragraph  shall  not  apply 
Borrower  or  Komineft  establish  to  the  satisfaction  of the  Bank
or
suspension,  cancellation, 
that: 
prematuring  is not caused by  the failure  of Komineft to  perform
any  of its obligations  under the EBRD Loan Agreement;  and  (B)
adequate  funds for the Project are available  to the Borrower from
other  sources  on  terms  and  conditions  consistent  with  the
obligations  of Komineft  under the  Project  Agreement.

termination 

Section  4.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the

following  additional  events  are  specified:

(a) 

the  event  specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of Section  4.01  of this Agreement
shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for  a  period  of sixty days  after  notice  thereof shall  have
been  given  by  the  Bank to the  Borrower;

(b) 

the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of  Section  4.01  of this

Agreement  shall  occur;  and

(c) 

the event specified in  paragraph  (e)  (i) of Section 4.01  of the Agreement

shall  occur,  subject to the proviso  of Paragraph  (ii)  of that Section.

ARTICLE V

Effective  Date;  Termination

Section  5.01.  The  following  events are  specified  as  additional  conditions  to the
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of the
General  Conditions:

(a)  all  conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness  of the  EBRD  Loan  Agreement
have  been  fulfilled,  other  than  those  related  to the  effectiveness  of this  Agreement;  and

-7-

(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement  has  been  executed  on behalf of the Borrower
and Komineft  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  (b) of this Agreement.

Section  5.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional  matters,  within  the
meaning of Section  12.02  (c)  of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion  or
opinions  to  be furnished  to  the  Bank:

(a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized  or ratified  by Komineft

and  is  legally  binding  upon  Komineft  in  accordance  with  its terms;  and

(b)  that the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  has  been  duly authorized  or  ratified  by
the  Borrower  and Komineft  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the Borrower  and  Komineft  in
accordance  with  its terms.

Section 5.03.  The  date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby

specified  for  the purposes  of Section  12.04  of the  General  Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representatives  of the Borrower;  Addresses

Section  6.01.  Except as  provided in  Section  2.08 of this  Agreement,  the Minister
of  Finance  or  the  Deputy  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  are  designated  as
representatives  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.

Section  6.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the  purposes  of Section

11.01  of the General  Conditions:

-8-

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
1 Ilyinka  Street  9
103097  Moscow
Russian  Federation

For the  Bank:

Telex:

112008

International  Bank  for

Reconstruction  and  Development

1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

197688  (TRT),
248423  (RCA),
64145  (WUI)  or
82987  (FTCC)

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF, the parties hereto,  acting through their duly authorized
representatives,  have caused  this Agreement  to be signed in their respective  names  in the
District  of Columbia, United  States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

-9-

RUSSIAN  FEDERATION

By/S 

21?l)C~?

Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

/

Regional  Vice  President
Europe  and  Central  Asia

- 10  -

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal  of  the Proceeds  of  the  Loan

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be  financed  out  of  the
1. 
proceeds  of the Loan,  the allocation  of the amounts  of the Loan  to each  Category and the
percentage  of expenditures  for  items  so  to  be  financed  in  each  Category:

Amount  of the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed  in 
Dollar  Equivalent) 

36,000,000 

% of
Expenditures
to  be Financed

80%  of foreign
expenditures

Category 

(1)  Management  of 
containment  and 
clean  up activities
under  Parts  A.1
through  A.3  of
the Project

(2)  Pipeline  replacement 
works  under  Part  B.1 
of the Project 

(3)  Pipeline  remediation 

works  under  Parts  B.2 
and  B.3  of the Project 

12,800,000 

16,700,000 

(4)  Goods 

5,300,000 

(5) Consultants'  Services 
under Parts  A.4,  B.2 
and  C  of the  Project 

9,100,000 

80%  of foreign
expenditures  and
62% of  local
expenditures

100%  of foreign
expenditures  and
77%  of local
expenditures

100%  of foreign
expenditures,  100%
of local  expenditures
(ex-factoiy cost) and
77%  of local expend-
itures  for other items
procured  locally

100% of foreign

penditures and 77/o
of local  expenditures

- 11 

-

Amount  of the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed  in 
Dollar  Equivalent) 

1,600,000 

17,500,000

99.000,000

Category 

(6)  Social  Assistance 

Sub-projects  under 
Part A.1  of the 
Project 

(7) Unallocated 

TOTAL 

% of
Expenditures
to be  Financed

80%  of foreign
expenditures  and
and  62% of local
expenditures

2. 

For the purposes  of this  Schedule:

(a) 

the term  "foreign expenditures"  means expenditures  in the currency  of any
country  other than that of the Borrower  for goods or services  supplied from  the territory
of any country  other than  that of the  Borrower;  and

(b) 

the term  "local  expenditures"  means expenditures  in the  currency  of the
Borrower or for  goods or  services  supplied from the territory  of the Borrower,  provided,
however,  that  if the currency  of the Borrower  is  also  that  of another  country  from  the
territory  of which  goods or  services  are  supplied, expenditures  in such  currency  for  such
goods  or  services  shall be  deemed  to  be  "foreign  expenditures."

.3. 
Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraph  I above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be
made  in respect  of payments  made for  expenditures prior  to the date of this Agreement,
except  that withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of $20
million,  may be made on account  of payments made for expenditures  before  that date but
after  March  1, 1995.

- 12  -

SCHEDULE  2

Description  of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to stabilize the oil spill area along the Kharyaga-
Usinsk  pipeline  prior  to  the  1995  spring  thaw  to  minimize  the  amount  of oil  released
during  runoff  and  prevent  ecological  damage  in the  Pechora  river  basin,  continue  the
clean  up  in  an  environmentally  appropriate  way and  minimize,  to  the  extent  possible,
damage  to  the  impacted  areas,  support  safe  pipeline  operations  in. the  near  term  and
evaluate  the need  for  a replacement  pipeline  investment  project  for the  longer term,  and
identify  and  implement  other  measures  to mitigate  against future  oil spills.

The Project consists of the following parts,  subject to such modifications  thereof
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such
objectives:

Part A:  SRill  Containment  and Clean-up

Oil  containment  works,  including  site assessment,  construction  of access  roads,
1. 
reinforcement  of existing dikes  and construction  of new dikes and other  structures for oil
containment,  recovery  and processing of oil where possible and pre-staging  of equipment
for  recovery  of oil  that  will  be  released  during  spring  flooding  and  implementation  of
social assistance sub-projects (Social Assistance Sub-projects),  selected  in accordance  with
criteria  approved  by the Bank,  to carry  out emergency  mitigation  measures necessitated
by  the oil  spills in  affected  communities,  as  identified  with state farms  and communities
interventions  for  public  health,  water  supply
including  emergency 
in  the  area, 
interventions  and  provision  of forage  for livestock.

Oil  removal  works,  with  the primary  focus  on  removing  as much  potentially
2. 
mobile  oil  as  possible  at  the  existing  oil  spill  sites  followed  by  site  restoration  and
remediation  measures.

Establishment  of  an  emergency  response  capability  for  oil  releases  on
3. 
including  monitoring  for  and  collection  of  floating  oil  slicks,
downstream  rivers, 
protection  of water intakes threatened  by oil slicks, removal  of stranded oil along the river
banks,  and  mitigation  of  impacts  resulting  from  oil  contamination  in  the  affected
communities.

Establishment of an environmental  monitoring  and management  program  for the

4. 
oil  spill containment  and  clean-up  activities.

-13 

-

Part B:  Pipeline  Rehabilitation:

1. 
Completion  of the  construction  of 67.9  km  of  partially  constructed  pipeline
through  the  replacement  of  the  southern  and  middle  sections  of  the  Kharyaga-Usinsk
pipeline.

2. 
Usinsk pipeline,  and  repair or replacement  of pipeline  segments  as required.

Carrying out of an integrity assessment and technical inspection of the Kharyaga-

Completion of water removal  separation facilities to remove corrosive  brine from
3. 
produced  oil  and  installation  of other  facilities  along  the  Kharyaga-Usinsk  pipeline  to
improve  operations  efficiency  and reduce  the  risk of failures.

Establishment  and  carrying  out  of  a  pipeline  maintenance  and  emergency
4. 
response  plan  and  provision  of equipment  and materials needed  for its  implementation.

Part  C:  Institutional  Strengthening  of Komineft

1. 
Carrying  out  of studies to  review  the  pipeline  operating  practices  of Komineft,
to establish guidelines for safe and efficient pipeline operation,  and to undertake feasibility
studies and  strategic  evaluation  of options  for future  pipeline  investments.

2. 
response,  oil  field and  pipeline  rehabilitation.

Training  of  Komineft  personnel  in  oil  spill  counter  measures,  emergency

Preparation  and  execution  of an  environmental  and  social  monitoring  program
3. 
and  strengthening  of  the  institutional  and  environmental  management  capacity  of
Komineft  to  mitigate  the effects  of oil  spills.

4. 
A. 1 through  A.3  and  B. 1 of the Project.

Provision  of monitoring services  to assift in the supervision of works under Parts

The Project  is expected  to be completed  by  September  30,  1997.

- 14  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

Date  Payment  Due 

On  each  May  1 and November  1

beginning November  1, 2000
through  May  1, 2012 

Payment  of Principal
(Expressed  in dollars)*

4,125,000

* 

The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents  determined  as  of the
respective  dates  of withdrawal.  See  General  Conditions  3.04.  and 4.03.

- 15  -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section  3.04 (b) of the General  Conditions, the premium  payable on
the principal  amount  of any maturity  of the  Loan  to be  prepaid  shall  be  the percentage
specified  for the  applicable  time  of prepayment  below:

Time  of Prepayment 

Premium

The  interest  rate  (expressed  as a
percentage  per annum)  applicable
to  the  Loan  on  the  day  of
prepayment  multiplied  by:

Not  more  than three  years 

before  maturity

More than three  years  but 
not more  than  six years
before  maturity

More than six years  but 

not  more than  11  years
before  maturity

More than  11  years but not 
more  than  15  years
before  maturity

More  than  15  years  before 

maturity

0.18

0.35

0.65

0.88

1.00

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby  certify  that the foregoing is a true copy  of
the original  in the archives of the International  Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

FOR SECRETARY

