CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4017 IND

(Second East Java Urban Development Project)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 23, 1996

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4017 IND

AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 

of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 

made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 

withdrawals shall be 
any country which is not a member 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United  Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”

of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 

payment or import, to the 

for the purpose of any payment to 

(c)

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 

“(k)

An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Annual Project Implementation Plan” and “APIP” mean Memoranda 

Pelaksanaan Program Tahunan (MPPT) the annual action plan adopted among East Java and 
each Participating Local Government and its respective PDAM  pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 (b)(ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(b)

“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 

and includes any successor or  successors thereto;

“East Java” means the Borrower’s Province of East Java;

(c)

(d)

Participating Local Governments, both commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower or the fiscal year of 

(e)

“Implementing Agencies” means the central, provincial and local agencies, 
departments and units responsible for Project implementation and coordination referred 
to under Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and “Implementing Agency” means any 
of the Implementing Agencies;

(f)

“MHA” means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower and includes any 

successor or successors thereto;

(g)

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and includes any 

successor or successors thereto;

(h)

“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower and includes any 

successor or successors thereto;

(i)

“Participating Local Government” and “Participating LG” mean any of the 

local governments listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

(j)

“Participating PDAM” means a PDAM, as hereinafter defined, operating in 

any Participating LG;

(k)

“PDAM” means Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a water enterprise, established 

by and operating in a Participating LG pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of MHA, and Joint Decree 
of MHA No. 3 of 1984 and MPW No. 269 of KPTS of 1984, as any of the same may be 
amended from time to time;

(l)

“PDAM fiscal year” means the fiscal year of any of the Participating 

PDAMs commencing January 1 and ending December 31;

(m)

“Performance Indicators” means the technical, physical and financial 
targets included in the APIPs to monitor the performance of Participating LGs and 
PDAMs pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(n)

“PPMO” means Provincial Project Management Office established and 

operating within the Provincial Development Planning Agency in East Java pursuant to 
SK Gub No. 185/95 dated September 20, 1995, issued by the Provincial Governor of East 
Java;

(o)

“Project Affected Persons” and “PAPs” mean persons who on account of the 

execution of Part A.1 of the Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or  (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired 
or possessed, temporarily or permanently adversely affected; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Project 
Affected Person” and “PAP” means individually all those who qualify as Project 
Affected Persons;

(p)

“Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum” and “PPIM” mean the 

memorandum of understanding agreed between the Borrower and East Java pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as such Memorandum may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank;

(q)

“Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” mean a resettlement and 

rehabilitation action plan to be prepared by any Participating LG or Participating 
PDAM pursuant to the Resettlement Guidelines, as hereinafter defined;  ˇ (r)
“Resettlement Guidelines” means the framework approved by the Provincial Governor of 
East Java pursuant to SK Gub No. 44/96 dated April 16, 1996, describing procedural and 
institutional aspects pertaining to land acquisition and the resettlement, 
rehabilitation and compensation of PAPs under the Project, as such Guidelines may be 
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;

(s)

“Rupiah” means Indonesian Rupiah, the currency of the Borrower;

(t)
this Agreement;

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(u)

“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project  

described under Part A.1 of the Project;

(v)

“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a Participating LG or a Participating PDAM under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;

(w)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower, represented by MOF, and Participating LGs and Participating 
PDAMs, pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” 
and “SLA” mean any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and 

(x)

“UKL/UPL” means the environmental management and monitoring plans 
prepared by East Java in accordance with the Borrower’s national guidelines for 
environmental assessment and mitigation established by Government Regulation 
No.51/1993 of the Borrower.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred forty-two 
million seven hundred thousand dollars ($142,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of 
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund:

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

thereof as the Bank has allocated 

the Bank’s investments; and 

(A)

(B)

bearing interest 
paragraph (a) of this 

loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 

rates determined otherwise than as provided in 

Section.

a calendar 

year.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)

The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 

Loan withdrawn 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 

of 1%). On each of the dates specified 

pay interest accrued on 

Period, 

"(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."

1, April 1,  July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

"(c)

(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.

(b)

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the 
Loan the amounts allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  to Participating Local 
Governments and Participating PDAMs under subsidiary loan agreements entered into 
between the Borrower and each Participating Local Government and the Borrower and, 
each Participating PDAM, respectively, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following principal 
terms and conditions:  (i)  the amount repayable under each Subsidiary Loan shall be 
the Rupiah equivalent at the time of withdrawal of such proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding of a Subsidiary Loan shall 
be payable at a fixed annual rate of 11.75%; (iii)  the commitment charge shall be 
payable on the amount so on-lent but not yet withdrawn from time to time at the rate 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) 
the repayment period of each Subsidiary Loan shall be up to twenty (20) years, 
including a grace period of up to five (5) years.

(b)

The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs, on a grant basis, the amount 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), and (3)(b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in accordance with terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank.

(c)

The Borrower shall enter into a provincial program implementation 

memorandum with East Java on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including 
those set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreements and Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Project and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the 
Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum or any provision thereof.

Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower, including the Participating PDAMs, responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

records and 
time to time reasonably 

request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con(cid:31)cerning said 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 

ensure that:

no Participating PDAM shall incur any debt unless a reasonable 

(i)
forecast of the 
shows that the projected 
each PDAM fiscal year during the 
at least 1.3 times the projected debt 
Participating PDAM in such year, the previous PDAM 
next PDAM fiscal year on all debt of such PDAM including 
be incurred; and

revenues and expenditures of such Participating PDAM 

net revenues of such Participating PDAM for 

term of the debt to be incurred shall be 
service requirement of such 

fiscal year and the 

the debt to 

Participating LGs of 

Bondowoso, Pacitan and Trenggalek, produces 

(ii)

each Participating PDAM, except for those PDAMs in the 

for each of its fiscal years: (A) 
revenues from all sources equivalent to not 
operating expenses; and (B) after January 1, 1999, gross 
revenues from all sources equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating 

through January 1, 1999, gross 

less than its 

expenses and depreciation.

(b)

For purposes of this Section: 

(i)
maturing by its 
is originally incurred.

the term “debt” means any indebtedness of a Participating PDAM 

terms more than one year after the date on which it 

(ii)

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

providing for 
of payment, on the date 
instrument; and

(A)

under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 

such debt or further modification of its terms 

of such contract, agreement or 

providing for 

such guarantee has been entered into.

(B)

under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 

(iii) The term “net revenues of such Participating PDAM” means gross 

revenues of a 
account of such 
time of the incurrence of debt 
during the twelve-month period to which 
less all operating expenses of such Participating PDAM, 
expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or 
payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of assets 

even though they were not in effect 
such revenues related, 
including 

Participating PDAM’s tariffs in effect at the 

Participating PDAM from all sources, adjusted to take 

and interest and other charges on debt.

repayments 
and other charges 

on, debt.

(iv)

The term “debt service requirement” means the aggregate amount of 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 

(v)

The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by a 

Participating 
question is to be incurred, 
Participating PDAM accept as reasonable and as to 
notified the Participating PDAM of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 

which both the Bank and the 

PDAM in the PDAM fiscal year in which the debt in 

which the Bank has 

reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 

financial condition or future operating results of such Participating 

PDAM.

capital, 
PDAM not allocated to cover 

(vi)

The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
retained earnings and reserves of a Participating 

specific liabilities.

(vii) The term “gross revenues from all sources” means the sum of 

sources related to water operation, house 

revenues from all 
connections, and cash consumer 
construction, but excluding non-operating income and 
inflows.

contributions in aid of 

any other cash 

related to water 
but excluding 

revenues to 
value of the water 
in accordance with 

(viii) The term “operating expenses” means the sum of all expenses 

operations, including maintenance and administration, 

depreciation.

(ix)

The term “depreciation” means the annual provision charged against 

depreciate, on a basis acceptable to the Bank, the current 

fixed assets in operation as valued from time to time 

methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.

to value, in 

terms of  Rupiah, debt payable in another currency, such 

(x)

Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 

valuation shall be 
exchange at which such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
the absence of such rate on the basis of a 
acceptable to the Bank.

made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 

other currency is, at the time of such 
of servicing such debt, or, with 

rate of exchange 

Section 4.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 

4.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary 
to enable each Participating PDAM  to adjust its tariffs by not later than October 31, 
1996, and thereafter by January 1, 1999 to meet the requirements of said Section.

Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that no Participating LG shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of 
the revenues and expenditures of such Participating LG shows that the projected 
non-grant and local revenues for a Fiscal Year minus the projected routine account 
expenditure on staff administration and routine operational and maintenance needs of 
such Participating LG for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement of such 
Participating LG in such year on all debt of such Participating LG including the debt 
to be incurred.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)
maturing by its 
is originally incurred.

the term “debt” means any indebtedness of a Participating LG 

terms more than one year after the date on which it 

(ii)

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

providing for 
of payment, on the date 
instrument; and

(A)

under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 

such debt or further modification of its terms 

of such contract, agreement or 

providing for 

such guarantee has been entered into.

(B)

under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 

repayments 
and other charges 

on, debt.

(iii) The term “debt service requirement” means the aggregate amount of 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 

The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by a 

(iv)
Participating LG 
to be incurred, which both 
as reasonable and as to which the 
Participating LG of its acceptability, provided that no 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 

in the Fiscal Year in which the debt in question is 

the Bank and the Participating LG accept 

Bank has notified the 

event has 

condition or operating results of such Participating LG.

value, in 
valuation shall be 
exchange at which such 
valuation, obtainable for the purpose 
the absence of such rate on the basis of a 
acceptable to the Bank.

(v)

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 

terms of  Rupiah, debt payable in another currency, such 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 

other currency is, at the time of such 
of servicing such debt, or, with 

rate of exchange 

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 

that the Borrower or East Java will be able to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum; and 

(b)

the Resettlement Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, 

abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of  
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or the ability of 
East Java to perform any of its obligations under the PPIM.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum has 
been duly approved by all relevant authorities and executed by the Borrower and East 
Java.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum has been duly 

authorized or ratified by the Borrower and East Java and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and East Java in accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the Resettlement Guidelines  have been duly approved by the Borrower 

and East Java and all necessary actions have been taken to enable the Resettlement 
Guidelines to be implemented in accordance with their terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

Cable address:

FINMINSTRY
JAKARTA

For the Bank:

Telex:

45799 DJMLN-IA
44319 DEPKEU-IA

International Bank for

Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI), or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By  /s/  Arifin M. Siregar

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By  /s/  Russell J. Cheetham

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

  Amount of the 
 Loan Allocated
(Expressed Dollar
  Equivalent)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

Category

(1)

Civil works for 
Sub-projects: 

(a)

financed under
SLAs

41,400,000

(b)

other works

45,700,000

(2)

Goods for Sub-projects:

90%

70%

90%

financed under SLAs

26,100,000

(a)

(b)

other goods

11,000,000

100% of foreign ex-

penditures, 100% of

local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and

65% of other items
procured locally

(3)

Consultants’ services:

contracted by the
Borrower

contracted by East 
Java, Participating
Local Governments and
Participating PDAMs

(a)

(b)

TOTAL

 2,300,000

16,200,000

80%

100%

      ___________
      142,700,000
      ===========

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 

3.
made in respect of:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

(b)

payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and

Categories (1) and (2) with respect to expenditures incurred by  a 

Participating LG and its respective Participating PDAM, unless the Bank  has approved 
the first APIP for such Participating LG and such Participating PDAM,  which shall 
have been adopted in accordance with the provisions of Part A.1 (b) (ii) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; and

(c)

Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a), with respect to expenditures incurred by 

a Participating LG or a Participating PDAM, unless the Bank has approved the first 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement for such Participating LG or such Participating PDAM, which 
shall have been entered into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) (i) the first contract for 
goods and the first contract for works to be entered into by any of the Implementing 
Agencies; and (ii) thereafter, contracts for goods costing less than $200,000 
equivalent, and civil works costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; and (b) contracts 
for the employment of: (i) consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and 
(ii) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of  the Project are to  improve the delivery of urban 

infrastructure services and develop the financial and institutional capacity of 
Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs in the Province of East Java.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Infrastructure Works

1.
projects for Participating Local Governments and Participating PDAMs in the following 

Carrying out a three-year program of high-priority infrastructure investment 

urban roads and traffic management;

water supply;

solid waste management;

sanitation and human waste disposal;

drainage and flood control;

sub-sectors:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

urban neighborhoods (Kampung);

provision of support to low-income communities and rehabilitation of 

urban infrastructure renewal, including market area rehabilitation; and

designed pursuant to the provisions of UKL/UPL.

environmental monitoring and implementation of mitigation measures 

2.
above.

Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under Part A.1 

Part B:

Institutional Capacity Development

Improving the urban management and services delivery capabilities of the staff 

1.
of Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs, through the provision of advisory 
services and training. 2. Improving the capabilities of the Borrower’s central, 
provincial and local agencies to manage and finance Sub-project preparation and 
implementation, and environmental management, through the provision of advisory 
services.

Part C:

Strategic Development Program

Design and preparation of a development policy framework and regional program 

for future investments in the infrastructure sector, through the provision of advisory 
services and the carrying out of policy studies.

The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.

*   *   *

ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

Participating Local Governments

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

Mojokerto - City 
Pasuruan - City 
Probolinggo - City 
Kediri - City 
Lamongan - Regency 
Banyuwangi - Regency 
Sidoarjo - Regency 
Jember - Regency 
Madiun - City 
Blitar - City 
Situbondo - Regency 
Lumajang - Regency 
Malang - Regency 
Pasuran - Regency 
Tulungagung - Regency 
Ponorogo - Regency 
Jombang - Regency 
Bojonegoro - Regency 
Tuban - Regency 
Gresik - Regency 
Bangkalan - Regency 

22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

Sampang - Regency 
Pamekasan - Regency 
Malang - City 
Bondowoso - Regency 
Probolinggo - Regency 
Mojokerto - Regency 
Kediri - Regency 
Blitar - Regency 
Trenggalek - Regency 
Pacitan - Regency 
Nganjuk - Regency 
Madiun - Regency 
Magetan - Regency 
Ngawi - Regency 
Sumenep - Regency

Date Payment Due

January 15, 2002
July 15, 2002
January 15, 2003
July 15, 2003
January 15, 2004
July 15, 2004
January 15, 2005
July 15, 2005
January 15, 2006
July 15, 2006
January 15, 2007
July 15, 2007
January 15, 2008
July 15, 2008
January 15, 2009
July 15, 2009
January 15, 2010
July 15, 2010
January 15, 2011
July 15, 2011
January 15, 2012
July 15, 2012
January 15, 2013
July 15, 2013
January 15, 2014
July 15, 2014
January 15, 2015
July 15, 2015
January 15, 2016
July 15, 2016

*
respective 
4.03.

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in dollars)*

2,770,000 
2,865,000 
2,965,000 
3,070,000 
3,175,000 
3,285,000 
3,400,000 
3,520,000 
3,645,000 
3,770,000 
3,900,000 
4,040,000 
4,180,000 
4,325,000 
4,475,000 
4,630,000 
4,795,000 
4,960,000 
5,135,000 
5,315,000 
5,500,000 
5,690,000 
5,890,000 
6,095,000 
6,310,000 
6,530,000 
6,755,000 
6,990,000 
7,235,000 
7,485,000

___________________________

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a 

applicable to the Loan on 
multiplied by:

percentage per annum) 
the day of prepayment 

Not more than three years

before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not

more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not

more than 18 years
before maturity

More than 18 years before

maturity

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 

1.
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  

(a)

Prequalification

Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more shall 

be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
guidelines.

(b)

Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

(c)

Notification and Advertising 

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 

provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines:

(a)

works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 

to an aggregate amount not to exceed $106,700,000; and

(b)

goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 

an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,500,000 equivalent.

2.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.

Procurement of Small Works

Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works and goods shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 

shall apply with respect to:

(a)

(i)

the first contract for works; and (ii) the first contract for 

goods to be entered into by any of the Implementing Agencies; and 

(b)

thereafter, each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent 

of $1,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 

1.
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 

no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:

(a)

contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 

than $100,000 equivalent each; or

(b)

contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to:

(i)

the terms of reference for such contracts;

(ii)

single-source selection of consulting firms;

Bank;

(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 

raising the 

(iv)

amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or

consultants raising 
above.

(v)

amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 

the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Part A:

Implementation Arrangements

1.

Provincial Program Implementation Memorandum (PPIM)

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the PPIM shall, inter alia, include 

the following undertakings:

(a)

The Borrower shall designate East Java as the principal Implementing 

Agency.

(i)

East Java shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the 

(b)
Project as set 
shall carry out its 
diligence and efficiency and in 
administrative, financial, engineering, 
and resettlement practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 

forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end 
respective parts of the Project with due 
conformity with appropriate 

environmental 

resources required by the Participating Local Governments and Participating 

PDAMs for their respective parts of the Project.

(ii)

To this end, East Java shall take all such action as shall be 

ensure that starting April 15, 1997 and thereafter, 

necessary to 
by not later than April 15 
Project, an annual project 
is adopted among East Java, each Participating LG 
Participating PDAM, in accordance with model terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, a 

and each 

in each year until the completion of the 
implementation plan (APIP) 

description of Sub-projects, operations and maintenance programs, 

institutional capacity development programs and Performance Indicators 

for the 

upcoming year. 

(c)

East Java, through its provincial public works agencies shall ensure that 

procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for its respective 
parts of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 

governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(d)

East Java shall cause the Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs to 
use the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for 
the purposes of their respective Sub-projects.

(e)

The Borrower and East Java shall closely monitor the implementation of 
all proposed activities, and shall inspect, from time to time, the goods, works and 
services under the Sub-projects including all records and documents relating thereto.

(f)

East Java shall cause Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs to 

promptly inform East Java of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of their respective Sub-projects and ensure that appropriate 
corrective measures are taken by the relevant Participating LGs.

(g)

The Borrower and East Java shall:

(i)

from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower, East 

Java or the 
Participating PDAMs 
out their respective Sub-projects; and

Bank, exchange views with the Participating LGs and 

regarding progress achieved in carrying 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank all such information and documents related 
reasonably be requested.  East Java shall further 

information and documents from 

thereto as may 
agree to obtain such 
Participating LGs or Participating PDAMs as may 
Borrower to fulfill its supervision, monitoring, recording 
obligations to the Bank.

be required by the 

and reporting 

2.

Sub-projects

Java to:

In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall and shall cause East 

(a)

select Sub-projects to be financed under the Project using technical, 
environmental and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank. Such criteria  shall 
include, without limitation:

LG or 
guidelines approved 

by the Bank;

(i)

each Sub-project shall be prepared by the respective Participating 

Participating PDAMs in accordance with general technical 

(ii)

for each Sub-project in the urban road, water supply, drainage and 

Kampung 
A.1 (a), A.1 (b), A.1 (e) 
rate of return of twelve (12%) 

rehabilitation sub-sectors, referred to under Parts 

and A.1 (f) of the Project, a minimum economic 

percent shall be required;

PAPs, a RAP 
Guidelines and in 
been furnished to the Bank for 

(iii) for each Sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement of any 

has been prepared in accordance with the Resettlement 

consultation with said PAPs, and such RAP has 

approval; and

pursuant to 
Bank;

(iv)

for each Sub-project, the UKL/UPL requirements have been completed 

terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 

(b)

ensure that Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs furnish to PPMO, 

for its review and approval by not later than October 15 of each year until completion 
of the Project, a list of proposed Sub-projects to be financed under the Project 
during the next year, together with all supporting documentation, all in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph (a) above; and

(c)

promptly after receiving PPMO’s approval thereof, cause the Participating 

LGs and Participating PDAMs to carry out their respective Sub-projects in accordance 
with procedures and guidelines issued by PPMO.

Part B:

Implementing Agencies

Responsibility for implementation of the Project shall be vested in the 

Implementing Agencies as follows:

1.

The Borrower

(a)

MPW through its Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) 

shall be the executing agency responsible for overall technical supervision and 
management of Project implementation.  Cipta Karya shall delegate day-to-day 
management responsibilities to East Java, for its respective parts of the Project.

(b)

BAPPENAS shall be responsible for ensuring close coordination of Project 

activities among MOF, MPW, MHA, East Java, Participating LGs and Participating PDAMs.

(c)

The Directorate General of Financial Institutions in MOF shall be 

responsible for the execution, enforcement and supervision of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements.

2.

East Java

(a)

East Java shall be responsible for the overall coordination and 

monitoring of Project implementation and to this end, shall maintain within its 
Provincial Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA I), the Provincial Project Management 
Office (PPMO) with competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers and headed by a 
qualified and experienced Project Manager.

(b)

The PPMO shall be responsible for:

(i)

overall management of the Project;

(ii)

reviewing and approving proposed Sub-projects;

the 
Participating 

PDAMs;

(iii) issuing standard operating procedures and related guidelines for 

implementation of Sub-projects by Participating LGs and 

financed under 

the Project; and

(iv)

planning, contracting and monitoring of consultants’ services 

(v)

monitoring implementation of approved Sub-projects.

(c)

The provincial public works agencies shall be responsible for managing 

their respective Sub-projects and, to this end, shall appoint and thereafter maintain, 
a qualified and experienced Sub-project Manager for each of said Sub-projects.

3.

Participating Local Governments

(a)

Each Participating LG shall be responsible for coordination and 

monitoring of the implementation of Sub-projects carried out by such Participating LG.

(b)

The Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA II) in each Participating LG 
shall be responsible for overall supervision of Sub-projects, including programming 
and planning of civil works under such Sub-projects and to this end, shall assign, and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, qualified and experienced 
technical officers which shall carry out day-to-day coordination activities, including 
preparation and dissemination of consolidated progress reports.

Part C:

Implementation Actions

1.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

cause East Java, through its Provincial Inspectorate, to carry out every 
year until the completion of the Project, commencing not later than October 31, 1997, 
annual technical audits, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, for Project quality 
assurance, including, achievement of Project objectives pursuant to the Performance 
Indicators, performance of civil works and consultants’ contracts, provision of 
compensation under the RAPs, and procurement of goods works and services financed 

under the Project; and

(b)

promptly after completion of the said audits, furnish to the Bank the 

recommendations submitted as part of said audits.

2.

The Borrower shall, and shall cause East Java to:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and East 

Java to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance 
Indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

not later than July 31 of each year, until the completion of the Project, 

furnish to the Bank a report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
including, inter alia:  (i) an evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower and 
East Java in Project implementation pursuant to the Performance Indicators; and  (ii) 
draft APIPs and SLAs proposed for the upcoming year;

(c)

not later than October 31 of each year, until the completion of the 

Project, and on the basis of the above reports, carry out annual Project 
implementation reviews to, inter alia: (i) evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower 
in general, and by East Java in particular, in carrying out the Project, including the 
carrying out of the RAPs; (ii) evaluate performance of the Participating LGs and 
Participating PDAMs, under the APIPs and SLAs during the previous year and review the 
recommendations made by East Java on APIPs and SLAs proposed for the upcoming year; 
(iii) assess the level of expenditures incurred by Participating LGs and Participating 
PDAMs to finance the costs of operations and maintenance of infrastructure financed 
under the Project, during the previous year and the allocations proposed for the 
upcoming year; (iv) discuss and exchange views on all other related activities 
financed by other donor agencies; and (v) exchange information among Implementing 
Agencies and propose solutions to any cur
rent implementation issue; and

(d)

promptly after completing the annual reviews take all measures required 

to ensure efficient implementation of the Project  and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said annual 
reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter. 

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (2)(a), 

(2)(b), (3)(a), and (3)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $28,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures.

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
ˇThereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.
(a)
Special Account:

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 

to paragraph 

2 of this Schedule; or

(i)

was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 

Borrower shall, 

(ii)

was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:

(A)

(B)

provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or

request, 
amount of such payment or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
deposit by the Bank into the Special 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 

refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 

the portion thereof not so eligible or 

otherwise agree, no further 

Account shall be 

made 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

