CONFORMED COPY     

LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA

Agreement Amending Loan Agreement

(Animal Feed Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 4, 1998

AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS, (A) by the Loan Agreement dated June 7, 1996 between the Borrower and 
the Bank for an Animal Feed Project (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank agreed to 
extend Loan No. 4001-CHA to the Borrower to assist in financing the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement (the Project), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Original Loan Agreement, and by the Project Agreement of 
same date between the Bank and China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment 
Corporation (CADTIC) (the CADTIC Project Agreement), CADTIC agreed to carry out the 
Project and to undertake such other obligations as are set forth in the CADTIC Project 
Agreement;

(B)

the People’s Bank of China has designated the Agricultural Bank of China 
(ABC) as the legal successor to the rights and obligations of CADTIC under the CADTIC 
Project Agreement, and ABC has requested, in its capacity as legal successor to 
CADTIC, that the Bank agree to the termination of the CADTIC Project Agreement and its 
substitution with the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ABC 
(the Project Agreement);

(C)

in consequence of the designation of ABC as the legal successor to 

CADTIC, the Borrower has requested that the Bank agree to amend certain terms and 
conditions in the Original Loan Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

terminate the CADTIC Project Agreement and substitute it with the Project Agreement, 
and to amend the Original Loan Agreement, upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.
are hereby amended to read as follows:

Articles I through VI and Schedules 1 through 6 of the Original Loan Agreement 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. 

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

"ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a commercial bank established 

and operating under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with (i) Business 
License No. 10000547-4, dated December 10, 1994, issued by the Borrower’s State 
Administration of Industry and Commerce; (ii) Banking License No. 02-0001, dated March 
1, 1992, issued by the People’s Bank of China; and (iii) the ABC Charter.

(b)

"ABC Charter" means the Circular of the Borrower’s State Council on the 
Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council 
Document No. (1976) 56) as such circular may be revised from time to time.

(c)

"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 

a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Part D.4(b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

(d)

"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which ABC proposes to make 

or has made a Sub-loan.

(e)

"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 

out by an Investment Enterprise under the Project utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan.

(f)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ABC in 

respect of Loan No. 4001-CHA, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(g)

"Project Coordinating Committee" means the project coordinating committee 
for the oversight of the implementation of the Project, referred to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

(h)

"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.

(i)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 

(j)

"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by ABC out of the 

proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.

(k)

"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and ABC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 

Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: 

(i)

for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 

withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a 

ABC on account of 
Sub-loan to meet the 
services required for the Investment Project in 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and

reasonable cost of goods and 

respect of 

(ii)

for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 

in respect of 
required for Part C of the Project and 
proceeds of the Loan.

the reasonable cost of training and services 

to be financed out of the 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 

date of this 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

and after the initial period, 

Date to, but 

(ii)
of this Agreement.

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank offered 
value the first day of such Interest 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 

Period (or, in the case of 
Payment Date 

(iv)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 

of one percent 
average margin, for such Interest 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 

(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

Period, below (or above) 

rates, 

portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 

portions 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
annum.

thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 

expressed as a percentage per 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. ABC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 

purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause ABC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of ABC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable ABC to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to ABC under a 

subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ABC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the 
following:

(i)
and repayable in 

dollars;

the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated 

fifteen years, 

including five years of grace;

(ii)

the Subsidiary Loan shall be made for a period not to exceed 

Loan withdrawn and 
rate applicable to the Loan 
Agreement; and

(iii) ABC shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary 

outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 

(iv)

ABC shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 

Subsidiary Loan 
equal to the rate payable pursuant to 
Agreement.

not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 

Section 2.04 of this 

(d)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ABC 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting practices, 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other 
retained until at least one year after 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Loan Account was made; and

documents) evidencing such expenditures are 

the Bank has received the audit 

withdrawal from the 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)
this Section and 
audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Bank;

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 

appropriate auditing principles 
acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six (6) 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 

months after the end of each such year the 

of such scope and in such 
including a 

upon to support the 

internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
related withdrawals; and

and accounts and 
reasonably request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Agreement.

ABC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ABC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c)

The ABC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ABC to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ABC or for the suspension of its 
operations.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified :

(a)

any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

(b)

any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of 

this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 

of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

Telex:

248423 (MCI) or
 64l45(MCI)

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

  Amount of the
  Loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollars)

(1)

Sub-loans

     149,800,000

     % of 
 Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of amounts
paid by ABC

(2)

Consultants’ services
and training under
Part C of the Project

     __________

Total

     150,000,000   

  200,000

100%

2.
made in respect of:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

expenditures under either Category (1) or Category (2) set forth in the 

table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless evidence (including legal opinions) 
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that (i) this Loan 
Agreement as amended by the Agreement Amending Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; (ii) the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ABC and 
is legally binding upon ABC in accordance with its terms; and (iii) the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, each of the Borrower and ABC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ABC in accordance with its terms;

(b)

a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 

procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement; or

(c)

payments made prior to June 7, 1996 (i) for expenditures under Category 

(2) or (ii) by ABC under Sub-loans; except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made by 
ABC under Sub-loans prior to said date but after January 1, 1996.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

3.
of statements of expenditure for payments made by ABC:  (a) under Sub-loans; (b) under 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms for Part C of the Project costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) under contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants for Part C of the Project costing less than $50,000 equivalent, and (d) 
for training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (1) alleviate 

supply constraints of critical animal feed ingredients; (2) improve and expand the 
utilization of agro-industrial by-products for use as high-quality livestock feeds; 
(3) improve feed sector efficiency through specialization, new technology transfer and 
integration; and (4) improve the corporate efficiency and commercialization of 
Investment Enterprises.

The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Financing, through the provision of Sub-loans to enterprises in the animal feed 

sector, of specific capacity-building projects, including projects for:

(1)
integrate production, processing and marketing of livestock, poultry and fish;

production by agro-enterprises of specialty feeds and pre-mixes so as to 

(2)
additives;

expansion and upgrading of production capacity with regard to essential feed 

(3)
and mixing equipment and pelleting machine replacement parts;

expansion of manufacturing capacity with respect to large-capacity feed milling 

expansion of capacity to synthesize enhanced-protein feed ingredients;

development of integrated protein feed crop production capabilities; and

establishment of feed commodity wholesale markets.

Financing, through the provision of a Sub-loan, of the construction of a feed 

mill to be operated for experimental and commercial purposes.

(4)

(5)

(6)

Part B:

Part C:

Strengthening the capacity of ABC at the head office and branch level to provide 

loans for investment projects, through the provision of training and consultants’ 
services.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal  
(Expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due

December 15, 2001
June 15, 2002
December 15, 2002
June 15, 2003
December 15, 2003
June 15, 2004
December 15, 2004
June 15, 2005
December 15, 2005
June 15, 2006
December 15, 2006
June 15, 2007
December 15, 2007
June 15, 2008
December 15, 2008
June 15, 2009
December 15, 2009
June 15, 2010
December 15, 2010
June 15, 2011
December 15, 2011
June 15, 2012
December 15, 2012
June 15, 2013
December 15, 2013
June 15, 2014
December 15, 2014
June 15, 2015
December 15, 2015
June 15, 2016

3,185,000 
3,280,000 
3,375,000 
3,475,000 
3,575,000 
3,680,000 
3,790,000 
3,900,000 
4,015,000 
4,135,000 
4,255,000 
4,380,000 
4,510,000 
4,640,000 
4,775,000 
4,915,000 
5,060,000 
5,210,000 
5,365,000 
5,520,000 
5,680,000 
5,850,000 
6,020,000 
6,200,000 
6,380,000 
6,565,000 
6,760,000 
6,960,000 
7,160,000 
7,385,000

___________________________________

*
as provided in 

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 

Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The Borrower shall maintain a project coordinating committee, with terms of 

reference, membership and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible 
for providing policy advice to ABC on issues relating to the development of the animal 
feed subsector and assisting ABC in liaising with other government agencies involved 
in the Project.

SCHEDULE 4

Implementation Program

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of: 

(i)

the reasonable cost of training and consultants’ services required 

the Project and to be financed out of the 

for Part C of 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
Loan Agreement; and 

to time to Category (2) as 

the 

(ii)

amounts paid by ABC under Sub-loans to be financed out of the 

proceeds of the Loan 
1 to this Agreement; provided, 
provisions of Part D.4(b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 

however, that notwithstanding the 

Project 

free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank 

have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect 

shall 
thereof.  Such 
eligible expenditures only if the Bank 
authorize such withdrawals; and

expenditures, however, shall qualify as 

shall subsequently 

(b)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $10,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $50,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 

requests for deposits into the Special 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 

Schedule for the payment or 

Bank the documents and other evidence required 

requested. On 

amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 

by said 
the Special Account for 

documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 

eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 

Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 6

Modifications of General Conditions

1.
modified as follows:

For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 

(1)

The following subparagraphs are added to Section 2.01:

1.02(f) of the 

Loan Agreement."

"22.  The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 

"23.  The term "ABC" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02(a) of the 

Loan Agreement."

(2)

Section 6.03 shall be amended to read:

"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 

withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 

Borrower to make 
with respect to any amount of the 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank 
proceeds of the Loan, that 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 

corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
beneficiary of the Loan during 

determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 

Loan for a continuous period of thirty 

consultation with the 

situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 

otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
the Bank determines that the procurement 

contract which would 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, 
of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have 
or (e) by the date specified in Part 
the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the 
applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of 
paragraph, or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by 
notice to 
applications or approvals or of  the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the 
canceled."

been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
D.5(c) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 

the Borrower and ABC, terminate the right of ABC to submit such 

amount or portion of the Loan.  

Loan (i) have received no 

Loan shall be 

the Loan is 

said 

2.
effect as of the date first above written. 

The amendments set forth in this Agreement Amending Loan Agreement shall take 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Xian Zhu

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

Acting Regional Vice President 

East Asia and Pacific

