LOAN  NUMBER  3979 IND

Loan Agreement

(Secondary  School Teacher Development Project)

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

ftu%, 

, 11996

Loan Number  3979  IND

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated 

INDONESIA 

OF 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank).

(the  Borrower) 

and 

iNTERNATIONAL  BANK 

,  1996,  between REPUBLIC
FOR

WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to  the  feasibility  and
priority of the Project described  in Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  has rer  ested the Bank
to assist in the  financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS  (B) the Bank has agreed,  on the basis,  inter alia,  of the foregoing,  to
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  tzrms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  "General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements"  of the Bank,  dated January  1, 1985,  with the modifications  set forth  below
(the General  Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a) 

(b) 

The  last sentence of Section 3.02  is deleted.

The  second sentence  of Section  5.01  is modified  to read:

"Except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree,  no
withdrawals  shall  be  made:  (a)  on  account  of  expenditures  in  the
territories  of any  country  which  is  not  a  member  of the  Bank  or  for
goods  produced  in,  or services supplied  from,  such territories;  or  (b) for
the purpose  of any payment to  persons  or  entities,  or for any  import of
goods,  if  such  payment  or  import,  to  the  knowledge  of the  Bank,  is
prohibited  by  a decision  of the  United Nations  Security  Council  taken
under Chapter VII  of the Charter of the United Nations."

(c) 

In Section  6.02,  subparagraph  (k)  is relettered  as  subparagraph  (1) and  a

new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

"(k)  An  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen  under  which  any
further  withdrawals  under  the  Loan  would  be  inconsistent  with  the
provisions  of Article III,  Section 3 of the Banks Articles  of Agreement."

Section  1.02. Unless  the context otherwise requires,  the  several terms defined  in
the  General  Conditions  have  the respective  meanings  therein  set forth and  the  following
additional tenn.  have the  following meanings:

(a) 
ending March 31;

"Fiscal Year"  means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing  April  1 and

(b) 

"Grants"  mean grants  made or proposed to be made  by the Borrower,  in
part out of the proceeds of the  Loan, to  a Grantee  for research  activities under  Parts B.2
and  D.3  of  the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement;

(c) 

"Grantee"  means  a  teacher  or  a  group  of  teachers  from  secondary
schools  or a faculty member  or a group  of faculty members  from LPTKs, and LPTKs, to
whom  or to which  the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Grant;

(d) 

"IKIP"  means  Institut Keguruan dan Ilmu Pendidikan, a public  institute

of teacher training and educational sciences  of the Borrower;

(e) 

"LPTK"  means  Lembaga  Pendidikan Tenaga Kependidikan, a  public

teacher training  institution of the Borrower;

(f) 

"Research  Management  Team"  means  the  team  established  under  the
University  Research  Council  in  the  Directorate  General  of  Higher  Education  in  the
Borrower's  Ministry  of Education  and  Culture, to  carry  out  the  selection  process  and
administer the Grants;

(g) 

"Special  Account"  means  the account  referred  to in  Section  2.02  (b) of

this Agreement;

(h) 

"STKIP" means Sekolah Tinggi Keguruan dan  lmu Pendidikan, a public

institute of teacher training of the Borrower;  and

(i) 

"UT" means  Universitas Terbuka, the Borrower's  Open University.

-3-

ARTICLE H

The Loan

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and
conditions  set forth  or referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  various  currencies  that  shall
have an aggregate  value equivalent to the amount of sixty million four hundred  thousand
dollars  ($60,400,000),  being  the  sum  of withdrawals  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section  2.02.  (a)  The  amount  of the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan
Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement  (i)  for
expenditures  made  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of  the
reasonable  cost of goods  and  services required  for the Project  (other than  Parts  B.2  and
D.3  thereof)  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out  of the
proceeds  of the Loan, and (Ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank  shall  so agree, to be paid) by
the  Borrower on  account  of Grants  made under  Parts B.2  and  D.3  of the  Project  and  in
respect of which the withdrawal  from the Loan  Account is requested.

(b) 

The Borrower  may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain  in
dollars  a  special  deposit  account  in Bank  Indonesia  or  in  a commercial  bank  on  terms
and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including,  in  the  case  of a  commercial  bank,
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure  or attachment.  Deposits  into, and payments
out of, the Special  Account  shall be  made in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
7 to this Agreement.

Section  2.03.  The Closing Date shall  be October  1, 2001,  or  such later date as the

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay to the  Bank  a commitment  charge  at the
rate  of three-fourths of one percent (3/4  of 1%)  per annum on the principal  amount  of the
Loan  not withdrawn from time to time.

Section  2.05.  (a) The  Borrower shall  pay interest  on the principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period
equal  to  the  Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester,  plus  one-half of one  percent  (1/2  of 1%).  On  each  of the  dates  specified  in
Section 2.06  of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall  pay interest  accrued  on the principal
amount  outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated  at the rate applicable
during such  Interest Period.

-4-

(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of each  Semester,  the  Bank  shall
notify the  Borrower  of the  Cost of Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect of such
Semester.

(c) 

For the purposes of this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

"Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period  ending  on  the  date
immediately  preceding  each  date  specified  in  Section  2.06  of
this Agreement,  beginning with the Interest  Period  in which  this
Agreement  is signed.

"Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,  as  reasonably
determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a  percentage  per
annum,  of the  outstanding  borrowings  of the  Bank  drawn  down
after  June  30,  1982,  excluding  such  borrowings  or  portions
thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to  fund:  (A)  the  Bank's
investments;  and  (B)  loans  which  may  be  made  by  the  Bank
after  July  1, 1989  bearing  interest  rates  determined  otherwise
than as provided  in paragraph  (a) of this Section.

(iii) 

"Semester" means  the first  six months  or the second  six months
of a calendar year.

(d) 

On such  date as the Bank  may specify  by no  less than six months'  notice
to the Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), (b) and (c) (iii)  of this  Section shall  be  amended to read
as follows:

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a rate  for each  Quarter
equal  to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined  in respect  of the preceding
Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent (1/2  of 1%).  On each  of the dates  specified
in  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest  accrued on the
principal  amount  outstanding  during the  preceding Interest  Period,  calculated  at
the rates  applicable during such Interest  Period."

"(b) 

As  soon  as  practicable  after the  end  of each  Quarter,  the  Bank
shall  notify  the  Borrower  of the  Cost  of Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in
respect  of such Quarter."

"(c) 

(iii) 

'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period  commencing  on

January  1, April  1, July  1 or October  1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges  shall be payable  semi-annually  on May  1

and November  1 in each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  in

accordance  with the amortization  schedule set forth in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution  of the Project

Section  3.01.  (a) The  Borrower declares  its commitment  to the objectives  of the
Project  as set forth  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement,  and, to this  end, shall  carry  out the
Project through the Directorate  Generid  of Higher  Education in  the Borrower's  Ministry
of Education  and  Culture,  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,  educational  and  financial  practices,  and  shall  provide,
promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required  for  the
Project.

(b) 

Without limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraph  (a)  of this  Section
and except as  the Borrower  and the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  the Borrower  shall  carry
out the Project in accordance  with the Implementation  Program  set forth in  Schedule  5 to
this Agreement.

Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  procurement  of  the
goods,  works and  consultants'  services  required  for the Project and to be financed  out of
the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule  4 to  this
Agreefient.

Section  3.03.  For  the  purposes  of Section  9.08  of the  General  Conditions  and

without limitation thereto,  the Borrower shall:

(a) 

prepare, on the basis of guidelines  acceptable  to the Bank,  and  furnish to
the Bank not later than six (6)  months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed  for  this  purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  a  plan  for  the  future
operation  of the activities under the Project;  and

(b) 

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  the

Borrower on  said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial  Covenants

Section  4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain  or cause to be maintained  records
and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices  the
operations,  resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of the  Project  of the  departments  or
agencies  of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b) 

The Borrower shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

have the  records  and accounts  referred  to  in paragraph  (a) of this
Section  including  those  for the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal
year  audited,  in  accordance  with appropriate  auditing  principles
consistently  applied,  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the
Bank;

furnish to the Bank  as soon  as available,  but in  any case not  later
than  six  montiis  after  the  end  of each  such  year,  the  report  of
such audit  by said  auditors,  of such  scope  and  in  such detail  as
the Bank  shall have reasonably requested;  and

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  said
records  and  accounts  and  the  audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall
from time to time reasonably request.

(c) 

For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan

Account were  made on the basis.of statements of expenditure,  the Borrower  shall:

in  accordance  with
to  be  maintained, 
maintain  or  cause 
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records  and  accounts  reflecting
such expenditures;

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank  has  received  the
audit report for the fiscal  year in which the  last withdrawal  from
the  Loan  Account  was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  such
expenditures;

(iii) 

enable the Bank's representatives to examine  such records; and

-7-

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

(iv) 

ensure that such records  and accounts are  included  in the  annual
audit  referred  to  in  paragraph  (b) of this  Section  and  that  the
report of such audit contains  a  separate  opinion  by  said auditors
as  to  whether  the  statements  of expenditure  submitted  during
such  fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to
support the related withdrawals.

Section  5.01.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement  is

hereby  specified for the purposes of Section  12.04  of the General  Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section  6.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as
representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.

Section  6.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for the  purposes of Section

11.01  of the Genet4  Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
c/  Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan  Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta  10710
Indonesia

Cable  address: 

Telex:

FINMINISTRY 
Jakarta 

45799 DJMLN-IA
44319 DEPKEU-IA

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423 (MCI)
64145 (MCI)

IN  WITNESS  WTHEREOF, 

the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their respective
names in the District of Columbia,  United States of America,  as of the  day and  year first
above written.

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

y' 

Regional  Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. 
The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories of  items  to  be  financed  out  of the
proceeds  of the Loan, the allocation  of the amounts  of the Loan to each Category  and the
percentage  of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category 

(1)  Civil works 

(2)  Equipment, furniture, 
learning and teaching 
materials, and 
consumable  materials 

(3)  Fellowships:

(a)  International 

(b) Domestic 

(4)  Grants 

(5)  Local training 

(6)  Scholarships 

(7)  Operating 

expenditures

Amount of the
Loan  Allocated 
(Expressed  in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
tQ be Financed

1,800,000 

50%

10,800,000 

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of  local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 65%
of  local
expenditures  for
other  items
procured  locally

70% of Grant
amount

100%

50%

50%

70%

50%

17,800,000 

6,700,000 

3,800,000 

4,300,000 

6,300,000 

2,000,000 

- 10 

-

Amount of the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed  in 
Dolliar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to  be Financed

900,000 

70%

Category 

(8)  Consultants' 
services and
studies

(9)  Unallocated 

6,000,000

TOTAL 

60,400,000

2. 

For the purposes of this  Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of
any  country  other  than  that  of the  Borrower  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the
territory  of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b) 

the term  "local  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in the  currency  of the

Borrower or for goods or services  supplied from  the territory of the Borrower;  and

(c) 

the term  "Operating  expenditures" means expenditures  on account of the
Project by the  central  and  local  Project Implementation  Units  for  staff honoraria,  travel
expenses,  office consumables,  and miscellaneous  administrative  support.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraph  I  above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be

3. 
made in respect  of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

The  Bank  may require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the
4. 
basis  of statements  of expenditure  for expenditures  for:  (i) civil  works  under  contracts
costing  less than  $500,000  equivalent, except for the first contract for civil works costing
the equivalent  of $100,000  or more; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000
equivalent,  except  for the  first  contract  for  goods  costing  $50,000  equivalent  or  more;
(iii)  fellowships,  Grants,  local  training,  scholarships,  and  operating  expenditures;  and
(iv)  contracts  for  the  employment  of  consulting  firms  valued  at  less  than  $100,000
equivalent  each  and  contracts  for  the  employment  of  individuals  valued  at  less  than
$50,000  equivalent  each,  under  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by
notice to the Borrower.

- 11  -

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  enhance  teaching  and  learning  processes  in
secondary  schools  through  the  improvement  of teacher  education  in  the  Borrower's
teacher training institutions.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications  thereof
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such
objectives:

Part A: Improving Pre-Service and In-Service  Teacher Education

Improvement  of  the  curriculum  for  the  undergraduate  degree  program  for
1. 
in  English  and  social  sciences  by
pre-service  and  in-service 
developing  curricula  providing  for  one  or  more  of the  following:  (a)  flexibility  for
teaching  in  both  junior  and  senior  secondary  schools,  (b)  flexibility  in  teaching  more
than one  subject, and  (c) courses  that improve  the students'  possibilities to compete  for
employment  outside the education sector.

teacher  education 

Strengthening  biology,  chemistry, physics  and  mathematics  pre-service  and  in-
2. 
service teacher education  through the  provision of science equipment  and related  storage
facilities to ten IKIPs and two STKIPs, and the  carrying out of workshops  in the use  and
maintenance of science  equipment for LPTK staff.

Improvement  of the  access  of faculty  and  students  of LPTKs  to  textbooks  and
3. 
other  curriculum  materials  currently  used  in  schools,  through  provision  of senior  and
junior secondary textbook  series, and education reference  books to all public LPTKs.

Promotion  of  active  learning  techniques  to improve teacher  education,  through
4. 
writing and production of teaching books, and translation  of foreign publications  relating
to subject content and teaching methods.

Establishment  of  a  student  support  center  at  each  LPTK  to  provide  tutorial
5. 
services  and assistance  in study skills to entering  students  to improve  the  success  rate in
beginning-level  courses.

Improvement of the qualification  of secondary  school teacher through  provision
6. 
of  about  18,000  tuition  scholarships  to  teachers  with  a  three-year  post-secondary
diploma to study for an undergraduate  degree.

- 12 

-

Improvement  of the teacher undergraduate  degree  program,  through the updating
7. 
of  the  UT  learning  materials,  both  for  the  face-to-face  and  the  distance  education
upgrading programs.

Renovation and upgrading  of office  space  for about  3,600  faculty members  and

8. 
of conference  rooms at IKIPs and  STKIPs.

Part B: Strengthening the Linkages  of LPTKs to Secondary  Schools

Strengthening the linkages of LPTKs to secondary schools through:

Preparation  of  a  handbook  for  the  implementation  of  a  student  teaching

1. 
practicum at LPTKs.

2. 

Provision  of Grants to:

(a) 

teams  of faculty  members  of LPTKs  and teachers  of secondary  schools
for the financing  of research  activities, including  small  equipment  and consumables,  for
the improvement of student teaching and field experiences for teacher trainees;  and

(b) 
foreign institutions.

LPTKs  for  the  formation  and  implementation  of  partnerships  with

Part C: Raising the Qualifications  of Teacher Educato-cM

Raising the qualifications  of teacher educators thro,gh:

Provision  of  about  1,600  fellowships  at  the  mastar's  level  and  about  150

1. 
fellowships at the doctorate  level for teaching  staff of LPTKs.

Provision  of short-term  international  fellowships  for about  150  LPTK  faculty

2. 
members  holding a graduate  degree.

Carrying  out of about eight regional workshops  for  lecturers  in  content-specific

3. 
pedagogy  for each major teaching subject.

Part IQ: Building Educational Research  Capacity

Building educational research  capacity through:

Development  and  implementation  of  a  procedure  for  assessing  entry-level

1. 
mastery of core subjects of new LPTK undergraduate  degree students.

- 13  -

2. 

Development  of an assessment procedure for teaching  skills of student teachers.

Provision  of Grants  to  individual  and  teams  of faculty  members  of LPTKs  for
3. 
the  carrying  out of research,  including  small equipment  and  consumables,  related  to the
improvement  of instruction  at LPTKs.

Part E: Preparing LFTKs for a Wider Mandate

Preparation  for the development  of full-fledged  subject-content departments  and
1. 
degrees  at selected  IKIPs to allow graduates to  prepare  for non-teaching jobs  in  selected
areas.

Improvement  of the  Borrower's  models  for  institutional  self-study  and  peer
2. 
validation  for  use  as  a  model  for  continuous  self-evaluation  and  improvement  for
LPTKs,  including support for the accreditation process.

Development  of effective  career  information  systems  at the  IKIPs and  STKIPs,

3. 
including teaching and non-teaching careers.

The Project is expected to be completed  by March 31,  2001.

- 14 

-

Schedule  3

Amortization  Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed  in dollars)*

1,165,000
1,205,000
1,245,000
1,290,000
1,335,000
1,385,000
1,435,000
1,485,000
1,535,000
1,590,000
1,645,000
1,705,000
1,765,000
1,825,000
1,890,000
1,960,000
2,030,000
2,100,000
2,175,000
2,250,000
2,330,000
2,415,000
2,500,000
2,585,000
2,680,000
2,775,000
2,870,000
2,970,000
3,075,000
3,185,000

Date Payment Due 

November  1, 2001 
May  1, 2002 
November  1, 2002 
May 1, 2003 
November  1, 2003 
May 1, 2004 
November  1, 2004 
May  1, 2005 
November  1, 2005 
May 1, 2006 
November  1, 2006 
May 1, 2007 
November  1, 2007 
May  1, 2008 
November  1, 2008 
May 1, 2009 
November  1, 2009 
May 1, 2010 
November  1, 2010 
May  1, 2011 
November  1, 2011 
May  1, 2012 
November  1, 2012 
May  1, 2013 
November  1, 2013 
May 1, 2014 
November  1, 2014 
May 1, 2015 
November  1, 2015 
May  1, 2016 

* 

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined  as of the
respective  dates of withdrawal.  See General  Conditions, Sections  3.04 and 4.03.

- 15  -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section  3.04  (b)  of the General  Conditions, the  premium  payable  on
the  principal  amount  of any maturity  of the Loan  to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage
specified for the applicable  time of prepayment  below:

Time of Prepayment 

Premium

The interest  rate (expressed  as  a
percentage  per  annum)  appli-
cable to  the Loan  on  the  day  of
prepayment  multiplied by:

Not more than three years 

before maturity

More than three years but 

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but 

not more than eleven years
before maturity

More than eleven years but not 
more than  sixteen years
before maturity

More  than sixteen years  but not 
more than eighteen years
before maturity

More than eighteen years before 

maturity

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

- 16 

-

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants'  Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods  and Works

PartA:  General

Goods  and works  shall be procured  in accordance  with the provisions  of Section
I of the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits" published  by
the Bank in January  1995  (the Guidelines)  and the  following  provisions  of this  Section,
as applicable.

PartB: International  Competitive Bidding

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part C of this  Section,  goods  shall  be procured
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  II  of  the

1. 
under  contracts  awarded 
Guidelines and paragraph  5 of Appendix  1 thereto.

The  following  provisions  shall  apply  to  goods  to  be  procured  under  contracts

2. 
awarded  in accordance  with the provisions of paragraph  1 of this Part B:

(a) 

Grouping of contracts

To the  extOnt  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall  be grouped  in  bid packages

estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent  or more each.

(b) 

Preference  for domestically manufactured  goods

The  provisions  of paragraphs  2.54  and  2.55  of the  Guidelines  and  Appendix  2

thereto  shall apply to goods manufactured  in the  territory of the Borrower.

EartC: Other Procurement Procedures

1. 

National Competitive Bidding

(a) 

Goods estimated to cost  less than  $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $7,600,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4  of the
Guidelines.

- 17  -

(b) 

Except as  provided  in Part C.4  of this  Section,  civil  works  shall  be  pro-
cured  under contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of paragraphs  3.3  and
3.4 of the Guidelines.

2. 

National  Shopping

Equipment,  furniture  and  consumable  materials  estimated  to  cost  less  than
$50,000  equivalent  per  contract  and  equipment  of  a  specialized  nature,  up  to  an
aggregate amount  not to exceed  $4,600,000 equivalent,  may be procured  under contracts
awarded  on the basis  of national  shopping procedures  in  accordance  with the provisions
of paragraphs  3.5 and 3.6  of the Guidelines.

3. 

National  Shopping  and Direct Contracting

Printed  books  and teaching  materials  up to an  aggregate  amount  not  to exceed
$800,000  equivalent,  may  be procured  under contracts  awarded on  the basis  of national
shopping procedures  in  accordance  with the provisions  of paragraphs  3.5  and  3.6  of the
Guidelines,  or, if they must be procured  from a  particular supplier,  may, with the Bank's
prior agreement,  be procured  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of paragraph  3.7  of the
Guidelines.

4. 

Procurement of Small Works

Works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  per  contract,  up  to  an
amount  not  to  exceed  $1,200,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured  under  lump-sum,  fixed-
price  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of quotations  obtained  from  three  (3) qualified
domestic  contractors  in  response  to  a written  invitation.  The  invitation  shall  include  a
detailed  description  of the works,  including  basic  specifications, the required completion
date,  a  basic  form  of agreement  acceptable  to the  Bank,  and  relevant drawings,  where
applicable.  The  award  shall  be  made  to  the  contractor  who  offers  the  lowest  price
quotation  for the required  work, and  who has  the experience  and  resources  to complete
the contract successfully.

Part.D:  Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1. 

Procurement Planning

Prior to  the  issuance  of any  invitations  to  prequalify  for  bidding  or  to  bid  for
contracts,  the proposed  procurement plan  for the  Project  shall  be  furnished  to  the Bank
for  its  review  and  approval,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  I  of
Appendix  1 to the  Guidelines.  Procurement  of all  goods and  works  shall be  undertaken
in accordance  with such procurement  plan as shall have  been  approved  by the Bank,  and
with the provisions  of said paragraph  1.

- 18 

-

2. 

Prior Review

With respect to  each contract  for civil  works estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of
$500,000  or more,  each contract  for goods estimated  to  cost the equivalent  of $200,000
or more, the first contract for civil works  estimated  to cost the equivalent  of $100,000  or
more,  and  the  first  contract  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of $50,000  or
more,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  3 of Appendix  I to  the  Guidelines
shall apply.

3. 

Post Review

With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  paragraph  2  of  this  Part,  the

procedures  set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines  shall apply.

Section H.  Employment of Consultants

Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance
1. 
with  the  provisions  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use  of  Consultants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the  Bank  in
August  1981  (the  Consultant  Guidelines).  For complex,  time-based  assignments,  such
contracts  shall  be based  on the  standard form  of contract for consultants'  services  issued
by  the  Bank,  with  such  modifications  thereto  as  shall  have  been  agreed  by  the  Bank.
Where  no  relevant  standard  contract  documents  have  been  issued  by  the  Bank,  other
standard  forms acceptable  to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraph  1 of this Section,  the provisions  of
2. 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection  procedures,  letters  of invitation,  proposals,  evaluation  reports  and  contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts  for the  employment  of consulting  firms estimated  to cost
less  than  $100,000  equivalent  each  or  (b) contracts  for the  employment  of  individual
consultants  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  each.  However,  said
exceptions  to  prior  Bank  review  shall  not  apply  to  (a) the  terms  of reference  for  such
contracts,  (b)  single-source  selection  of consulting  firms,  (c)  assignments  of a  critical
nature,  as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank,  (d) amendments  to  contracts  for  the
employment  of consulting  firms  raising  the  contract  value  to  $100,000  equivalent  or
above,  or  (e)  amendments  to  contracts  for  the  employment  of  individual  $50,000
equivalent  or above.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation  Program

1. 

In  carrying out Part A.1  of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a) 

not later than July  1, 1996, establish curriculum  teams for English, social
sciences,  and  subject-specific  pedagogy;  each  such  team  to  be  established  in  an  IKIP
selected  on the  basis  of its  strong  English,  social  sciences  or subject-specific  pedagogy
program,  respectively; and

(b) 

thereafter maintain  such teams until the completion  of the Project.

2. 

In carrying out Part A. 6 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a) 

not  later  than  March  31,  1997,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for
comments,  an  action  plan  for  the  deployment  of  about  2,400  excess  LPTK  faculty
members  to  secondary  schools  and  to  UT,  such  plan  to  include:  proposed  incentives;
requirements  that  faculty  members  who  have  not  had  previous  experience  teaching  at
secondary  school  level  complete  a  specified  period  of  time  teaching  at  secondary
schools;  requirements  that  all  faculty  members  have  periodically  required  teaching
experience  at  the  secondary  school 
level;  and  proposal  to  increase  the  average
student/teacher  ratio of the LPTKs to  12  students per teacher;  and

(b) 

promptly  thereafter  take  all  measures  required  to  carry  out  the  action

plan, taking  into account the Bank's comments  thereon.

3. 

In carrying out Part B.1  of the Project, the Borrower  shall:

(a) 

not later than  July 1, 1996, establish  the LPTK teaching practicum  team,

and, thereafter, maintain  such team  until the completion  of the Project;  and

(b) 

furnish to the Bank for comments,  not later than July  31,  1997,  the draft
handbook  for  the  implementation  of the  student  teaching  practicum,  and,  promptly
thereafter,  finalize the handbook  taking into account the comments  of the Bank.

4. 
In  carrying  out Part  C. 1 of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  take  all  measures
necessary  to  ensure  that  such  teaching  staff, when  returning  from  overseas  and  local
degree programs,  are offered teaching positions appropriate  for the training received.

- 20  -

5. 

In carrying  out Part D.1  of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a) 

not later than  October  1, 1996,  commence  the development  of a test for

new undergraduate  degree student assessment  at LPTKs;  and

(b) 

not  later  than  July  31,  1997,  commence  the  testing  of  such  students

using such test.

6. 
In carrying  out Part D.2  of the  Project, the Borrower shall,  not later than  June  30,
1998,  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  comments,  an  action  plan  for  the  raising  of  admission
standards  at  selected  IKIPs,  based  on  the  analysis  of the  testing  of new  undergraduate
degree  students  at LPTKs,  and,  thereafter, carry  out the  action  plan  taking  into account
the  comments of  the Bank  on such plan.

In carrying  out Parts B.2  and D.3  of the Project, the Borrower  shall make  Grants
7. 
in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  on  the  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

In carrying  out Part C.1  of the Project, the Borrower  shall provide  fellowships  in

8. 
accordance  with selection  criteria agreed with the Bank.

In carrying  out Part E.1  of the Project, the Borrower shall,  not later than  October
9. 
1, 1996,  in accordance  with  selection  criteria  acceptable  to the  Bank,  select  at least two
IKIPs for future conversion  into a university.

10. 

In carrying out Part E.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a) 

maintain, until completion  of the Project,  a policy on  zero  growth  in  the
appointment  of faculty  members  to LPTKs,  except  for  fields of specialization  in  which
there is a proven acute shortage  of teachers;  and

(b) 

not  later than  October  1, 1996,  establish the task force  to coordinate  the

institutional self-study  and peer-evaluation  activities.

11. 

The Borrower shall:

(a) 

not later than October  1 in each year, commencing October  1, 1997,  and
until  the  completion  of the  Project,  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  comments  a report  on  the
implementation  of  the  budget  for  the  Project  for  the  past  and  current  Fiscal  Year,
together with the proposed budget for the following  Fiscal Year;  and

(b) 

thereafter,  revise  the  proposed  budget  for  the  following  Fiscal  Year

taking into account the Bank's comments.

- 21 

-

12. 

The Borrower shall:

(a) 

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and
evaluate  on an  ongoing basis,  in accordance  with  indicators  satisfactory to  the Bank,  the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement  of the objectives thereof;

(b) 

prepare, under terms of reference  satisfactory to the Bank,  and furnish to
the  Bank,  on  or  about  December  31,  1998,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the
monitoring  and evaluation  activities performed  pursuant to paragraph (a)  of this Section,
on  the  progress  achieved  in  the carrying  out  of the Project  during the  period  preceding
the date  of said report and  setting  out the measures  recommended  to ensure  the efficient
carrying  out  of the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof  during  the
period following  such date;  and

(c) 

review  with  the  Bank,  by April  1, 1999,  or  such  later date  as  the Bank
shall request,  the report referred  to in  paragraph  (b) of this Section,  and, thereafter,  take
all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the  Project  and  the
achievement  of the objectives  thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations  of
the said report and the Bank views on the matter.

13. 

The Borrower  shall:

(a) 

cause  technical  audits of Project implementation  to be  carried  out,  in a
manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  each  Fiscal  Year  during  implementation  of  the
Project;  and

(b) 

furnish to the  Bank for comments  as  soon  as available but  not later than

six months after the end of each such  year, a copy of such audit.

The  Borrower  shall  establish  and,  thereafter,  maintain  until  completion  of the
14. 
Project, a Central Project Implementation Unit, and local project  implementation  units at
LPTKs, with competent  staff in adequate numbers.

- 22  -

SCHEDULE  6

Procedures  and  Conditions  for Grants
under Parts B.2  and D3 of the Project

1. 

Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:

(a) 

to a Grantee who or which shall have established,  to the satisfaction  of the
Borrower,  acting  through  the  Research  Management  Team,  on  the  basis  of  criteria  and
procedures,  acceptable  to the  Bank, that  said  Grantee:  (i) (A)  in  the case  of an  individual
Grantee,  has the qualifications and experience  necessary for the efficient carrying out of the
research,  and (B)  in  all other  cases,  has  the  orgznization,  management,  staffing  and  other
resources  required  for the efficient  carrying  out of the  Research;  and  (ii)  has  prepared  an
acceptable  plan, including terms of reference,  for the carrying out of the research; and

(b) 

for a research  project which  is determined by the Borrower, acting through
the Research  Management  Team,  on the  basis of guidelines  acceptable  to the  Bank:  (i)  to
be technically feasible and  cost-effective,  and (ii) to have  been designed  in accordance with
appropriate  educational  standards.

Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain,  through a single
2. 
written  agreement  with  each of the Grantees,  rights adequate  to protect  the  interests  of the
Borrower and the Bank, including the  right, as applicable, to:

(a) 

require  the  Grantee  to  carry  out  the  research  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  financial,  educational  and  managerial  standards
and to maintain adequate records;

(b) 

require  that (i) the goods  and services  required  for the  research  and to be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Schedule  4 to  this Agreement, (ii) such  services  shall  be used exclusively  in
the carrying  out of the research, and  (iii) such  goods shall be used primarily  in the carrying
out of the research;

(c) 

inspect,  by  itself or jointly  with  representatives  of the  Bank  if the  Bank

shall so request, such goods and any relevant records and  documents;

(d) 

require  that the  Grantee  (except  where  the Grantee  is an  individual)  shall
take out  and maintain  with  responsible  insurers  insurance  to cover the hazards  incident to
the  acquisition,  transportation  and  delivery  of goods  required  for the  research  and  to  be
financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan to the place  of use  or installation,  any  indemnity
thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a  currency  freely  usable  by the  Grantee  to  replace  or
repair such goods;

- 23 

-

(e) 

obtain all  such  information  as the Borrower and the Bank  shall reasonably

request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be derived from  the research;  and

(f) 

suspend or terminate  the  right of the Grantee  to the use  of the proceeds  of
the Loan upon failure  by such Grantee  to perform  its obligations  under  its agreement  with
the Borrower providing for the Grant.

- 24 

-

SCHEDULE  7

Special Account

1. 

For the purposes  of this Schedule:

(a) 

the term  "eligible  Categories"  means Categories  (1)  through  (8)  set  forth

in the table  in paragraph  1 of Schedule  1 to this Agreement  in respect  of the Project;

(b) 

the  term  "eligible  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  respect  of the
reasonable  cost of goods and  services  required  the Project  and to  be financed  out of the
proceeds  of the Loan allocated  from time to time to the eligible  Categories  in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule  1 to this Agreement;  and

(c) 

the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount  equivalent  to
$4,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special
Account pursuant to paragraph  3  (a)  of this  Schedule, provided,  however, that unless the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Authorized  Allocation  shall  be  limited  to  an  amount
equivalent  to  $800,000  until  the  aggregate  amount  of  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account  plus  the  total  amount  of all  outstanding  special  commitments  entered  into  by
the  Bank pursuant to  Section  5.02 of the General  Conditions  shall  be equal  to or  exceed
the equivalent  of $8,000,000.

Payments  out  of the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible

2. 
expenditures  in accordance  with the provisions of this  Schedule.

After the  Bank  has  received  evidence  satisfactory to  it that the  Special  Account
3. 
has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent
withdrawals to  replenish the  Special  Account shall be  made as follows:

(a) 

For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Borrower  shall
furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  of an
amount  or  amounts  which  do  not  exceed  the  aggregate  amount  of  the  Authorized
Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  such
amount or amounts  as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) 

(i) 

For replenishment  of the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower  shall
into  the  Special
furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for  deposits 
Account at such intervals  as the Bank shall  specify.

- 25  -

(ii) 

Prior to or at  the time of each  such  request, the  Borrower  shall
furnish to the  Bank  the documents  and other  evidence  required
pursuant  to  paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or
payments  in respect of which replenishment  is requested.  On the
basis  of each  such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan  Account and deposit  into the
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested  and  as  shall have  been  shown  by  said  documents  and
other  evidence  to have been  paid  out of the  Special  Account  for
eligible  expenditures.  All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by
the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special  Account,  the
4. 
Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to the  Bank
such  documents  and  other  evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was made  exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraph  3 of this Schedule,  the  Bank  shall

5. 
not be required to make  further deposits  into the Special Account:

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further
withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  V of the General  Conditions  and paragraph  (a)
of  Section  2.02 of this Agreement;

(b) 

if the  Borrower  shall  have  failed  to  furnish  to  the  Bank,  within  the
period  of time  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b) (ii)  of this  Agreement,  any  of the  audit
reports  required  to  be  furnished  to the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  Section  in  respect  of the
audit of the records  and accounts for the Special  Account;

(c) 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its  intention
to  suspend  in  whole  or in  part the right  of the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02  of the General  Conditions;  or

(d) 

once the total  unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan  allocated  to the  eligible
Categories  minus the total  amount  of all  outstanding  special  commitments  entered  into
by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to  the
Project, shall equal the equivalent  of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

- 26  -

Thereafter, withdrawal  from the Loan  Account of the remaining  unwithdrawn  amount of
the Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the Bank
shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such  further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only
after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts
remaining  on deposit in the Special Account  as of the date of such notice will  be utilized
in making payments  for eligible expenditures.

(a) 

If the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any time  that  any payment  out  of
6. 
the  Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure  or  in  an  amount  not  eligible
pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not justified  by  the  evidence
furnished  to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)
provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into  the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount  equal to
the  amount of such payment  or the portion thereof not so  eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall  otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special  Account shall
be  made until the  Borrower has  provided  such evidence  or made  such  deposit or refund,
as the case may be.

(b) 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  amount
outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will  not be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for
eligible expenditures,  the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund  to
the Bank such outstanding  amount.

(c) 

The  Borrower  may, upon  notice  to the  Bank,  refund  to the  Bank  all  or

any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d) 

Refunds  to the Bank  made  pursuant to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of
this  Schedule  shall  be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for
cancellation  in  accordance  with the  relevant provisions  of this Agreement,  including the
General  Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify  that  the  foregoing is a  true copy of

the original  in the archives of the  International  Bank

for Reconstruction  and  Development.

FOR SECRETARY

