CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4027 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Second Henan Provincial Highway Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 13, 1996

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4027 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated, September 13, 1996, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

(B)

The Project will be carried out by Henan Province (Henan) with the 

Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Henan the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Henan;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of

this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"Expressways" means the roads, including the linking roads and related 

facilities, to be constructed or upgraded under Part A of the Project;

(b)

"Expressway EAPs" means, collectively, (i) the Environmental Action 

Plan-National Trunk Road from Lianyungang to Huoerguosi, Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway, 
referred to under Part A (1) of the Project, dated December 1995; (ii) the 
Environmental Action Plan-National Trunk Road from Lianyungang to Huoerguosi, 
Shaanxi-Henan Connection Road, referred to under Part A (3) of the Project, dated 
December 1995; and (iii) the Environmental Action Plan-Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway 
Linking Road Projects, referred to under Part A (2) of the Project, dated November 
1995; which set out environmental protection measures as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures; and "Expressway 
EAP" means any one of the Expressway EAPs;

(c)

"Expressway RAPs" means, collectively, (i) the Luoyang-Sanmenxia 

Expressway Resettlement Action Plan (Final Revision); (ii) the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Plan for the Linking Highway of
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway under Henan Provincial Highway Project II; and (iii) the 
Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection Road Resettlement Action Program (Revision), each dated 
December 1995, under Parts A (1), (2) and (3) of the Project respectively, which set 
out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well 
as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans; and 
"Expressway RAP" means any one of the Expressway RAPs;

(d)

"First Year RIPA Environmental Action Plans" means (i) the Environmental 

Action Plan-The First Package of RIPA Projects, Category I Projects, and (ii) the 
Environmental Action Plan-The First Package of RIPA Projects, Category II Projects, 
each dated November 1995, in respect of RIPA (as hereinafter defined) Sub-projects 
included in the work plan for the first year of implementation of Part B of the 
Project, setting out environmental protection measures as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures;

(e)

"First Year RIPA Resettlement Action Plan" means the Land Acquisition and 

Resettlement Plan for Road Improvement Program for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) under 
Henan Provincial Highway Project II (First Package), dated December 1995, in respect 
of RIPA Sub-projects included in the work plan for the first year of implementation of 
Part B of the Project, setting out procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement 
and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan;

(f)

"HPCD" means the Henan Provincial Communications Department, a department 

of the Henan Provincial Government, and any successor thereto;

(g)

"Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway" means the road to be constructed between 

Luoyang and Sanmenxia in Henan under Part A (1) of the Project;

(h)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Henan of 

even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

(i)

"RIPA" means Henan’s Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation Program to 

rehabilitate, upgrade and construct road systems in selected counties in Henan in 
order to provide the rural population of such counties better access to the main 
provincial highways;

(j)

"RIPA Sub-project" means a rural road project covering a number of road 
segments selected for financing under Part B of the Project in accordance with Part B 
of Schedule 2 to the Project  Agreement;

(k)

"Shaanxi" means Shaanxi Province, a political sub-division of the 

Borrower, and any successor thereto;

(l)

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

this Agreement; and

(m)

"Yangjia-Baijiazhai Connection Road" means the road between Yangjia and 

Baijiazhai in Henan to be constructed under Part A (3) of the Project.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred and ten million dollars ($210,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

date of this 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 

and after the initial period, 

Date to, but 

(ii)
of this Agreement.

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank offered 
value the first day of such Interest 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 

Period (or, in the case of 
Payment Date 

(iv)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 

of one percent 
average margin, for such Interest 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 

(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

Period, below (or above) 

rates, 

portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 

portions 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
annum.

thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 

expressed as a percentage per 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable February 15 and August 

15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Henan to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Henan therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Henan to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Henan on 

the following principal terms:

(i)

the principal amount so made available to Henan shall be the 

amount withdrawn from 
Account, on account of the cost of 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan;

the Loan Account or paid out of the Special 

goods, works and services 

(ii)
over a period of 
of five (5) years; and

Henan shall repay the principal amount so made available to it 

twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period 

(iii) the Borrower shall charge: (A) interest on the principal amount so 

made available 
to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
commitment charge on the principal amount so made available 
and not withdrawn  from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 

and withdrawn and remaining unpaid from time 

interest applicable from time to 

Agreement; and (B) a 

percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by Henan pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial and Other Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting practices, 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other 
retained until at least one year after 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Loan Account was made; and

documents) evidencing such expenditures are 

the Bank has received the audit 

withdrawal from the 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

 

 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)
this Section and 
audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Bank;

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 

appropriate auditing principles 
acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six months 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 

after the end of each such year the report of 
scope and in such detail as the 

separate 

submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 

controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 

withdrawals; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 

support the related 
 

and accounts and 
reasonably request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Project Agreement.

Henan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Henan will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been 

duly authorized or ratified by Henan and is legally binding upon Henan in accordance 
with its terms.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64l45 (MCI)

 

 

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Russell Cheetham

Authorized Representative

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                  Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated          % of
                                  (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                         Dollar)        to be Financed

(1)  Civil works

     (a) under Part A of
         the Project               129,000,000       40%

     (b) under Part B of
         the Project                20,200,000       28%

     (c) under Part C of
         the Project                   900,000       36%

(2)  Supply and installation        17,200,000       80%
     of electronic, electric and
     mechanical equipment
     under Part A of the Project

(3)  Goods                           6,200,000       100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     (ex-factory
                                                     cost) and 75%
                                                     of local ex-
                                                     penditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally

(4)  Consultants’ services          6,900,000        100%
     and training

(5)  Unallocated                   29,600,000
                                  ___________
          TOTAL                   210,000,000

For the purposes of this Schedule:

2.
 

3.
 

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:

(a)

no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 

prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1996 may be made in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000; and

(b)

no withdrawals under Category (1) (b) shall be made in respect of 

payments made for expenditures for any RIPA Sub-project until such Sub-project has 
been approved by the Bank in accordance with Part C of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

 

 

(a)

(b)

(c)

goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent; 

works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent;

less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and

consultants’services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 

(d)

training;

 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the continuing development of 
road infrastructure in Henan in order to stimulate economic activity; (b) to assist in 
the implementation of Henan’s poverty alleviation strategy for the poorer counties by 
the provision of better road access; (c) to increase the safety of road transport in 
Henan; and (d) to improve highway sector institutional capacity in Henan.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Construction and Upgrading of Expressways

Construction of a four-lane expressway of about 136 kilometers (km) between 

Part A:
 
(1)
Luoyang and Sanmenxia in Henan, including the supply and installation of electrical, 
electronic and mechanical equipment for toll collection, telecommunications and 
lighting facilities and the construction of service areas and management and 
maintenance buildings.

(2)
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway.

Construction of about 17 km of linking roads at interchanges along the 

(3)
Baijiazhai in Henan.

Construction of a two-lane expressway of about 6 km between Yangjia and 

(4)
Luoyang-Sanmenxia Expressway.

Provision of equipment for the operation and maintenance of the 

Part B:
 

Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation

Carrying out of sub-projects for the rehabilitation and construction of about 

1,700 km of rural road segments under Henan’s Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation 
Program in order to provide the rural population of poorer counties better access to 
the main provincial highways.

Institutional Strengthening and Training

Institutional development and strengthening of HPCD and affiliated institutions 

Part C:
 
(1)
in the areas of highway design, construction supervision, operation and maintenance; 
project implementation management; traffic engineering and safety; highway planning 
and financial management, through the provision of training, consultants’ services and 
equipment and the expansion of the physical facilities and functional capabilities of 
the Henan Scientific Research Institute.

(2)
Carrying out of a study with a view to formulate recommendations for the 
improvement of the organization, management and maintenance of high-grade highways in 
Henan.

Part D:

Road Safety Program

Implementation of a program for road safety improvement consisting of: (a) 

improvement of traffic safety coordination among the different responsible 
institutions, (b) enhancement of capacity to report and analyze traffic accidents, (c) 
a pilot accident black spot improvement program, and (d) a study on accident 
contributing factors, through the provision of technical assistance and training, 
including equipment required therefor.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.

************

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due
 
February 15, 2002                            
August 15, 2002                              
February 15, 2003                            
August 15, 2003                              
February 15, 2004                            
August 15, 2004                              
February 15, 2005                            
August 15, 2005                              
February 15, 2006                            
August 15, 2006                              
February 15, 2007                            
August 15, 2007                              
February 15, 2008                            
August 15, 2008                              
February 15, 2009                            
August 15, 2009                              
February 15, 2010                            
August 15, 2010                              
February 15, 2011                            
August 15, 2011                              
February 15, 2012                            
August 15, 2012                              
February 15, 2013                            
August 15, 2013                              
February 15, 2014                            
August 15, 2014                              
February 15, 2015                            
August 15, 2015                              
February 15, 2016                            
August 15, 2016                             
 
____________________
*
as provided in 
 

Payment of Principal
(Expressed in dollars)*

4,500,000
4,630,000
4,765,000
4,900,000
5,040,000
5,185,000
5,335,000
5,490,000
5,650,000
5,810,000
5,980,000
6,150,000
6,330,000
6,510,000
6,695,000
6,890,000
7,090,000
7,295,000
7,505,000
7,720,000
7,940,000
8,170,000
8,405,000
8,645,000
8,895,000
9,150,000
9,415,000
9,685,000
9,965,000
      10,260,000

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 

Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $12,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
 

requests for deposits into the Special 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account  such 

Bank the documents and other evidence required 

Schedule for the payment or 

requested. On 

amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 

by said 
the Special Account for 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.

eligible expenditures.

documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

