CONFORMED COPY   

LOAN NUMBER 4180 RU

Loan Agreement

(Structural Adjustment Loan)

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 12, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4180 RU 

AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1997, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (The Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 5, 1997 from the Borrower 

describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 

(B)

on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 

support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
as hereinafter provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term 

“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six 
hundred million Dollars ($600,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 

(b) 

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank, the first 

request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.

(c)

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 

to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date. 

of this 

Agreement. 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in single 

of such Interest Period (or, in the case 

interbank 
currency for value the first day 
of the initial Interest Period, for 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
annum.

value the Interest Payment Date 
of such Interest Period), 
as a percentage per 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 

15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Particular Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 

request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 

(b)

Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 

(c)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
before June 30, 1999 which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.

Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 

principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

(b)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 

six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 

(c)

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 

and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 

ARTICLE IV 

Additional Event of Suspension

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:  

(a) that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 

or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; or 

(b) that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower ceases to be consistent 

with the Program as determined on the basis of indicators agreed upon by 
representatives of the Borrower and the Bank. 

ARTICLE V 

Effective date; Termination

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

ARTICLE VI 

Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy Minister of 

Finance responsible for international economic affairs are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka, Street 9
103009 Moscow
Russian Federation

Telex:

112008

For the Bank:

International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

By /s/ Yukon Huang 

SCHEDULE 1 

Acting Regional Vice President 

Europe and Central Asia

Excluded Expenditures

For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 

shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 

1. 
from the territory of the Borrower; 

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 

expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 

2.
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;

expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 

3.
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

112                     -

Alcoholic beverages

121                     -

122                     -

Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)

525                     -

Radioactive and associated materials

    -

Pearls, precious and semiprecious 

unworked or worked

718                   718.7

Nuclear reactors, and parts 

elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 

nuclear reactors

667

stones,

thereof; fuel 

for

728.43                  -

Tobacco processing machinery

                     897.3

971                     -

Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)

Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)

4.
luxury consumption; 

expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 

5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; 

expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 

6.
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 

7.

expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 

corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.

SCHEDULE 2 

Amortization Schedule

 Payment of Principal 
(expressed in Dollars)* 

Date Payment Due

On each March 15 and September 15

beginning September 15, 2002
through  March 15, 2014

25,000,000

____________________

* 
as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

