CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4097 UA

Loan Agreement

(Social Protection Support Project)

between

UKRAINE

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated April 24, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4097 UA

AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1997, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS (B) by agreement between the Borrower, through its Ministry of Social 

Protection, and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), dated 
February 15, 1996 (the USAID Agreement), the USAID has agreed to make a grant to the 
Borrower in an aggregate amount of ______________ Dollars to assist in financing Part 
C.1(a) and C.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the USAID 
Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a)

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 

made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 

withdrawals shall be 
any country which is not a member 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United  Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”

of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 

payment or import, to the 

for the purpose of any payment to 

(c)

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l), 

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 

“(k)

An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“HMSAP” means the Borrower’s Housing and Municipal Allowance Program 

established pursuant to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree No. 89, dated 
February 4, 1995;

(b)

“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto; 

(c)

“MSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Protection or any successor 

and

thereto; and

(d)

“Working Group” means the group established by the Borrower within the 

MSP pursuant to Order No. ___, dated ____, 1996.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of [two million six hundred 
thousand Dollars ($2,600,000)], being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three(cid:30)fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 

specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable  during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

a calendar 

year.

(iii) “Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

“(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 

Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On 

the Loan 
each Quarter equal to the 
the preceding Quarter, plus 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
Interest Period.”

of this Agreement, the Borrower 

outstanding during the 

during such 

Bank shall 
determined in respect of such 

Quarter.”

“(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 

January 1, April 

1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”

“(c) (iii) `Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 

and December 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MSP and local and regional HMSAP administrative offices 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and information technology practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

(i)

maintain the Working Group until the completion of the Project, 

and ensure 
accordance with procedures 
meet the objectives of the Project 
prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and 

that the Working Group functions at all times in 

and with staff that are necessary to 
shall, by June 1, 1997, 

(ii)

by ___________, 1996, adopt such selection procedures and terms 
for the training of the Borrowers’ staff as may be 
appropriate for the implementation of 

and conditions 
necessary and 
Part C.1 of the Project, and 
of the delivery of goods under Parts A and B of the 
provision of related training and technical support.

to assure the coordination 

Project and the 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate 

to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; and

(b)

carry out a study referred to in Part C.23 of the Project under terms of 

reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 
30December 31, 1997, the results of such a study, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

 The Borrower shall:

Section, 
year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 

later than six 
report of such audit by said 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

auditors, of such scope and in such 

requested; and

and 
to time reasonably 

request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

paragraph (a) of this 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 

Section, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 

report for the fiscal year in which the last 

the audit 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 

or payment out of the Special Account 
orders, invoices, bills, 
expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely that subject to paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the right of the Recipient to withdraw or benefit from the proceeds of the 
USAID Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part 
pursuant to the terms of the USAID Agreement.

(b)

Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Recipient 

establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI

Termination

ARTICLE VII

Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv -8
Ukraine 252008

Telex:

131450

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI)
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

UKRAINE

By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Basil Kavalski

Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

 

Category

(1) Goods 

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
    Dollar
  Equivalent)

  2,290,000

(2) Consultants’
    Services

(3) Unallocated 

TOTAL

     40,000

     270,000
   _________

   2,600,000

   % of
Expenditures
   to be
  Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
items procured
locally

100%

100%

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

    ========

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
[except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$________, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments 
made for .

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditurres for expenditures for consultants’ services under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. expenditures before that date but after 
________________.]

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s 

housing and municipal services allowance system.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Automation of Data and Application Processing

Installation and testing of computer systems and related technology in local 
administrative offices of the HMSAP in order to automate the processing of subsidy 
applications and data, through the provision of equipmentgoods.

Part B:

Management Information System

Installation and testing of computer equipmentsystems and related technology to 

establish a pilot management information systems linking electronically local and 
regional administrative offices of the HMSAP with the MSP, through the provision of 
equipmentgoods.

Part C:

Training, Technical Support and Evaluation

1.
Training of staff of and provision of software and technical support to the 
local and regional administrative offices of the HMSAP to use computer and related 
equipment procured under Parts A and B of the Project through the provision of: (a) 
consultants’ services; and (b) goods.

2.
consultants’ services.

Support to the MSP in Project implementation through the provision of 

3.
of the HMSAP, through consultants’ services.

Carrying out of a study to evaluate the impact of the Project and effectiveness 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

On each June 1 and December 1

Beginning June 1, 2002
through   June 1, 2013

And on December 1, 2013

110,000

 70,000

_____________________________

*
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable
to the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years

before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not

0.18

0.35

0.65

0.88

more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before

maturity

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods 

Part A:

General

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” published by the Bank 
in January 1995, and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 

provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

Part C:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 

2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 

1.
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to 
cost less than [$50,000]$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior 
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank; and (d) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of consultants raising the contract value to [$50,000] equivalent or above.]$50,000 
equivalent or above.

Assumes a currency pool loan.

To be agreed upon during the negotiations, following consultations with the 

Disbursement Department of the Bank.

To be determined. 

To be determined during the negotiations, based on consultations with the 

Disbursement Department of the Bank.

To be deleted if no consultants’ services.

