CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4099 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Second Xinjiang Highway Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated January 23, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4099 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region (XAR) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to XAR the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and XAR;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of

this Agreement:

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"EAP" means the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway Environmental Action Plan of 

November 1995, which establishes environmental protection measures as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to
ensure the implementation of said measures;

 

(b)

(c)

"IRI" means the international roughness index in respect of paved roads;

"MRP" means the four-year highway maintenance and rehabilitation program 

developed as a result of a study conducted under Part D.2 of the Xinjiang Provincial 
Highway Project financed under the
Loan Agreement dated November 11, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank, which will 
cover approximately seventy-eight percent (78%) of the periodic road maintenance and 
rehabilitation works in XAR during the period 1997-2000;

(d)

"MRP yearly program" means the maintenance and rehabilitation program for 

the relevant year under Part B of the Project prepared in accordance with Part B.2 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;

(e)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and XAR of even 

date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

(f)

"RAP" means the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway Resettlement Action Plan of June 

1996, which sets out the procedures governing the acquisition of land and other 
property, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangement to ensure compliance with such plan;

(g)
this Agreement;

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(h)

"Urumqi-Kuitun Highway" means the road to be constructed between Urumqi 

and Kuitun in XAR under Part A of the Project, including the by-pass to the west of 
Urumqi, the road connecting to the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway, and all linking 
roads;

(i)

"XAR" or "Xinjiang" means the Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region, an 

administrative sub-division of the Borrower, and any successor thereto;

(j)

"XCD" means the Xinjiang Communications Department, an agency of XAR, and 

any successor thereto;

(k)

"XHAB" means the Xinjiang Highway Administration Bureau, an agency of 

XAR, and any successor thereto; and

(l)

"XHGHAB" means the Xinjiang High-grade Highway Administration Bureau, an 

agency of XAR, and any successor thereto.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

date of this 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 

and after the initial period, 

Date to, but 

(ii)
of this Agreement.

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank offered 
value the first day of such Interest 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 

Period (or, in the case of 
Payment Date 

(iv)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:

(A)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 

(B)
interest Period, below 
rates, or other reference rates, for 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 

(or above) the London interbank offered 

six-month deposits, in 

currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 

reasonably determined by the Bank and 

the Loan; as 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in Section 2.05, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 

15 and December 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause XAR to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of XAR therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable XAR to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to XAR on the 

following principal terms:

(i)

the principal amount so made available to XAR shall be the amount 

withdrawn from 
Account on account of the cost of 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan;

the Loan Account or paid out of the Special 

goods, works and services 

a period of 
five (5) years; and

(ii)

XAR shall repay the principal amount so made available to it over 

twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of 

(iii) the Borrower shall charge: (A) interest on the principal amount so 

made available 
to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
commitment charge on the principal amount so made available 
and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to  three-fourths of one 

and withdrawn and remaining unpaid from time 

interest applicable from time to 

Agreement; and (B) a 

percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall  be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by XAR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting practices, 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other 
retained until at least one year after 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Loan Account was made; and

documents) evidencing such expenditures are 

the Bank has received the audit 

withdrawal from the 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

 

 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

this Section 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

with appropriate auditing 

acceptable to 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six months 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 

after the end of each such year the report of 
scope and in such detail as the 

separate 

submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 

controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 

withdrawals; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 

support the related 
 

and accounts and 
reasonably request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Agreement.

XAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that XAR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely the event described paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by XAR, and is legally binding upon XAR in accordance with 
its terms.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

 

 

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Li Daoyu

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in         Expenditures
                                 Dollar                to be
     Category                  Equivalent)           Financed

(1)  Civil works

     (a)  under Part A of     182,400,000          50%
          the Project

     (b)  under Part B of      30,000,000          43%
          the Project

     (c)  under Part D of       1,700,000          50%
          the Project

(2)  Supply and installation    9,600,000          80%
     of electronic, electric
     and mechanical equipment
     under Part A of the
     Project

(3)  Goods                      9,500,000          100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 75%
                                                   of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally

(4)  Consultants’services
     and training              4,700,000           100%

(5)  Unallocated              62,100,000
                             ___________

     TOTAL                   300,000,000
                             ===========

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in amounts not to exceed $2,400,000 in respect of Category 
(1) (a), $200,000 in respect of Category (3) and $1,000,000 in respect of Category 
(4), may be made in respect of such Categories on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1996.

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

 

(a)

(b)

force account;

goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent;

works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent, or under 

(c)

consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 

less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and

(d)

training;

 
all  under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) support the 

continuing development of road infrastructure in Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region in 
order to relieve congestion, facilitate mobility and stimulate socioeconomic 
development; (b) improve maintenance of Regional highway network; (c) promote the 
development of institutional capacities of the Regional departments and agencies 
responsible for highway planning, design, financing, operations and maintenance; (d) 
increase the safety of highway transport; and (e) promote transport linkages with 
neighboring provinces and countries.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Construction of Urumqi-Kuitun Highway

Construction of a highway of about 267 kilometers (km) between Urumqi and Kuitun 

Part A:
 
1.
in Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region which consists of: (a) a four-lane expressway of 
about 218 km between Urumqi and Kuitun; (b) a by-pass of about 32 km to the west of 
Urumqi; (c) a four-lane Class I highway of about 16 km linking the Urumqi-Kuitun 
Highway to the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway; including the
supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical equipment for toll 
collection, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting, and the construction 
of management and maintenance buildings, parking and service areas.

2.
major interchanges on the Urumqi-Kuitun Highway.

Construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of about 18 km of linking roads at 

3.
Highway through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment.

Ehancing construction quality, operation and maintenance of the Urumqi-Kuitun 

Highway Maintenance

Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 2,450 km of highway sections included in 

Institutional Strengthening and Training

Institutional development and strengthening of XCD and its affiliated 
institutions in the area of highway engineering, maintenance, operations and 
management through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment.

Highway Safety Program

Implementation of a program to improve highway safety consisting of (a) 

improvement of traffic safety coordination among the different responsible 
institutions, (b) development of procedures for road
safety audits, (c) black spot identification and improvement, and (d) improvement of 
road signs and markings, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment.

Part E:
 

Promotion of Regional Transport

Carrying out of a regional transport study to identify the principal medium-term 

transport needs of XAR and to develop recommendations for the transport policy and 
investment program for XAR.

Part B:
 
1.
the MRP.

Part C:
 

Part D:
 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.

*    *    *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due
 

     June 15, 2002                       
     December 15, 2002                   
     June 15, 2003                       
     December 15, 2003                   
     June 15, 2004                       
     December 15, 2004                   
     June 15, 2005                       
     December 15, 2005                   
     June 15, 2006                      
     December 15, 2006                  
     June 15, 2007                      
     December 15, 2007                  
     June 15, 2008                      
     December 15, 2008                  
     June 15, 2009                      
     December 15, 2009                  
     June 15, 2010                      
     December 15, 2010                  
     June  15, 2011                     
     December 15, 2011                  
     June 15, 2012                      
     December 15, 2012                  
     June 15, 2013                       
     December 15, 2013                   
     June 15, 2014                       
     December 15, 2014                   
     June 15, 2015                       
     December 15, 2015                   
     June 15, 2016                       
     December 15, 2016                   
 
____________________________

 1,850,000
 1,850,000
 1,850,000
 1,850,000
 6,100,000
 6,100,000
 6,100,000
 6,100,000
18,300,000
18,300,000
24,400,000
24,400,000
24,400,000
24,400,000
24,400,000
24,400,000
12,200,000
12,200,000
12,200,000
12,200,000
12,200,000
12,200,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000
 1,500,000

*
as provided in 
 

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 

Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 

set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $18,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $80,000,000.

2.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
 

requests for deposits into the Special 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 

Schedule for the payment or 

Bank the documents and other evidence required 

requested. On 

amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 

by said 
the Special Account for 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and
other evidence. 

eligible expenditures.

documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the  Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 

utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

