CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4194 IND

Loan Agreement

(BEPEKA Audit Modernization Project)

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated August 4, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4194 IND 

AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1997 , between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 

WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:

the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 

have been 

 “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of 

suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
the Borrower, that an 
the 

amount of the Loan will not be required to finance 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 

Bank determines, after consultation with 

a continuous period of 

or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 

contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan 
execution of such contract, 
and appropriate action 

without the Borrower having taken timely 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 

corrupt or 

representatives of 

during the procurement or the 

contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 

establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 

the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
procurement of any contract to be financed 
is inconsistent with the 
Loan Agreement and 

procedures set forth or referred to in the 

out of the proceeds of the Loan 

contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 

establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 

out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, 
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
shall have received notice from the 
respect to an amount of 
the 

Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 

Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 

Account, or (f) the Bank 

an amount of 

withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 

such 

out of 
determines that the 

notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a) 

“Annual Work Plan” and “AWP” mean Rencana Kerja Tahunan (RKT), the annual 

work plan adopted  by March 31, in each year by BEPEKA, as hereinafter defined,  
pursuant to which BEPEKA undertakes to carry out selected audit activities during the 
upcoming year in accordance with the terms and guidelines stipulated in its five-year 
work plan; 

(b)

“BAPPENAS”  means the National Development Planning Agency of the 

Borrower and any successor thereto; 

(c)

“BEPEKA” means Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan Republik Indonesia, the Supreme 

Audit Board of the Republic of Indonesia and any successor thereto, established by the 
Borrower as a supreme audit institution responsible for auditing the accountability of 
public finances, and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Decree No. 
11 of December 28, 1946, as amended by Law No. 17 of 1965 (State Gazette 1965 No. 79) 
and Law No. 5 of 1973 dated July 16, 1973 (State Gazette 1973 No. 39), and Decision 
No. 11/SK/K/1993 issued by the Chairman of BEPEKA on November 24, 1993, as any of the 
same may be amended from time to time; 

(d)

“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and BEPEKA commencing 

April 1 and ending March 31; 

(e)

“HAPSEM” means Hasil Pemeriksaan Semester, the semi-annual compilation of 
findings and recommendations arising out of the audit activities carried out by BEPEKA 
pursuant to the AWP and submitted to the  Borrower’s House of People’s Representatives 
(DPR);

(f)

“Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to measure the 

performance of the Borrower agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, as such 
Indicators may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank; 

(g)

“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established and to be 
maintained by the Borrower within the Office of the Secretary General of BEPEKA 
pursuant to Surat Keputusan (SK) No.19/SK/S/1997 of April 1, 1997, issued by the 
Secretary General of BEPEKA, as such SK may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with the Bank; 

(h)

“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee established and to be 

maintained by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Surat Keputusan (SK) 
No.20/SK/S/1997 of April 1, 1997, issued by the Secretary General of BEPEKA, as such 
SK may be amended from time to time in consultation with the Bank; and

(i)
this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixteen 
million four hundred thousand dollars ($16,400,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15  

and November 15 in each year. 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through BEPEKA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate technical, financial, auditing, accounting and  administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and  consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement 
of the Project objectives; and 

prepare, on the basis of 

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall: 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 

(a) of this Section including those for the Special 

Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank; 

independent auditors 

appropriate 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 

case not later than six months after the end of each 

year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such detail as the Bank shall have 

such 
such scope and in 

reasonably requested; and 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 

said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 

Bank 

shall from time to time reasonably request.

(c)
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 

paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 

reflecting such expenditures; 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 

the 

last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
such expenditures; 

and other documents) evidencing 

records (contracts, 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 

records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in 

the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 

Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
procedures and internal controls 
relied upon to 

Year, together with the 
involved in their preparation, can be 

support the related withdrawals.

separate 

statements of 

ARTICLE V 

Effective Date; Termination 

Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia

Cable address: 

Telex:

45799 DJMLN-IA      44319 DEPKEU-IA

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI)
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Javad Khalilsadeh-Shirazi

Acting Regional Vice President 

East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

        (Expressed in Dollars)       to be Financed   

     Amount of the                % of
     Loan Allocated            Expenditures

(1)

(2)

Consultants’ services

940,000                 80%

(a)  In-country

    12,925,000

    50%

(b)  Overseas            12,360,000                100%

(3)

Goods             

     1,175,000                 100% of foreign 

    of local 

    expenditures, 100% 

    (ex-factory cost), 

    expenditures 

and 65% of local 
for 

TOTAL    

                 16,400,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

    ==========

           expenditures 

    other items 

    procured locally

 (a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency  of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this  
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $500,000, may be made in respect of Category (2)(b) set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 6, 1997.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) training under Categories 
(2)(a) and (2)(b) set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; (b) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; and (c) contracts for the employment of: (i) 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project 

The objectives of the Project are to assist BEPEKA to better assess the 

accountability of public finances through the enhancement of its performance and 
financial audit capabilities.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

BEPEKA Strategic Planning

Improving the capabilities of BEPEKA to develop and implement its long-term 

strategy and its enabling legal framework through the provision of specialized 
advisory services.

Part B:

BEPEKA Institutional Development

Upgrading the auditing capacity of BEPEKA through: (a) the provision of overseas 

1.
and in-country training  for:  (i)  the staff of BEPEKA responsible for carrying out 
performance and financial audits; and (ii) the staff of the Borrower’s agencies 
responsible for the implementation of the findings of BEPEKA audits; and (b) the 
development and implementation  of  an on-the-job staff training program for the 
technical staff of BEPEKA, including the formulation of basic curricula and course 
materials.

Improving BEPEKA’s auditing systems through : (a) the upgrading of BEPEKA’s 

2.
Audit Management Information System (MIS); (b) the updating of existing  and 
development of new working manuals and practical guides for the carrying out of 
performance and financial audits; and (c) the formulation and implementation of 
selected pilot performance and financial audits aimed at testing the improved quality 
of government auditing. ˇ3.
PIU to program,  manage, implement and monitor Project activities through the 
provision of  management advisory services and short-term overseas training 
activities.

Improving the capabilities of the staff of BEPEKA and 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.

* * * * * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

Provisions A. General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment 

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 

(c)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

Agreement. 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 

B.

Interest 

1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings: 

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 

offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
respect of the Bank's outstanding 
thereof allocated by the Bank to 
thereof made by 
Interest 

expressed as a percentage per annum. 

it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 

Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 

borrowings or portions 

deposits, in 

fund single currency loans or portions 

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 

Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) 

the 

London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
portions thereof allocated to 
thereof made by 

outstanding borrowings or 
fund single currency loans or portions 

rates, for six-month 

it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 

(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 

Date for such Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined 

by the 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 

4.
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 

thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment 

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 

1.
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

2.
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

Part A:

General 

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 

“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 

2.
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 

(a)

Grouping of contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for goods 

shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 

(b)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods The provisions of 

paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.
National Competitive Bidding Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4. of the Guidelines. 

National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 

2.
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent my be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 

1.
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 

shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

shall apply to: 

(a)
more, and 

C.1 of this Schedule. 

The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 

each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 

(b)

the first contract for goods procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 

3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants   

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 

2.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract for:

(a) strategic planning under Part A of the Project; and 

(b) improving auditing systems under B.2 of the Project, may comprise entirely 

national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Quality-based Selection

Services for:  (a) the provision of strategic planning advice under Part A of 

the Project; (b) the design and implementation of the overseas training activities 
under Part B.1(a) of the Project; (c) the upgrading of the MIS under Part B.2(a) of 
the Project; and (d) the development of the on-the-job training program under Part 
B.1(b) of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

2.

Selection Under a Fixed Budget

Services for the improvement of auditing systems under Parts B.2(b) and B.2(c) 

of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

3.

Least-cost Selection

Services for the carrying out of audits referred to under Part B.1 of Schedule 5 

to this Agreement estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 

and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

4.

Individual Consultants

Services for consultants:

(a) employed as counterpart staff to the strategic planning advisor and 

short-term technical advisors under Part A of the Project; 

(b) for the formulation and implementation of selected pilot performance and 

financial audits under Part B.2(c) of the Project; and 

(c) for the provision of management advice under Part B.3 of the Project, shall 

be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

1.

Prior Review 

The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 

of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to 
each contract for consulting firms costing the equivalent of $100,000 or more and 
individual consultants costing the equivalent of $50,000 or more employed for: 

(a) the provision of strategic planning advice under Part A of the Project; and 

(b) the development of the on-the-job training program under Part B.1(b) of the 

Project.

2.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

SCHEDULE 5 

Implementation Program

Part A:

Implementation Arrangements

Responsibility for the implementation of the Project shall be vested in the 

Implementing Agency as follows: 

1.

BEPEKA shall be responsible for the implementation of the  Project. 

(a)

The Borrower shall maintain throughout Project implementation a project 

2.
steering committee (PSC) staffed by qualified and experienced staff in adequate 
numbers and  with functions acceptable to the Bank.  The PSC shall be chaired by 
BEPEKA’s Secretary General and shall comprise representatives of BEPEKA’s Training 
Center, Evaluation, Legal and Public Relations, Research and Development and Auditing 
Units, and designated representatives of BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance.

(b)

The PSC shall be responsible for providing overall policy guidance and 

general oversight under the Project.

(c)

The Secretary General of BEPEKA shall be responsible for: (i) ensuring 
technical quality of Project activities; (ii) monitoring performance of consultants’ 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) supervising the design and 
implementation of training programs financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iv) 
monitoring the implementation of pilot performance and financial audits approved by 
the Bank; and (v) monitoring of the upgrading of the MIS.

(a)

The Borrower shall maintain within the Office of the Secretary General of 

3.
BEPEKA, until the completion of the Project, a project implementation unit (PIU), 
staffed by qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers and with functions 
acceptable to the Bank, as follows: (i) key staff including: (A) Project Manager, who 

shall be responsible for day-to-day implementation of Project activities; and (B) 
Project Treasurer, who shall be responsible for accounting, auditing and preparation 
of consolidated financial reports required under the Project; and (ii) other technical 
staff, including a procurement specialist, which shall be drawn, if necessary, from 
other Bureaus and Units within BEPEKA.

(b)

The PIU shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) day-to-day management 

of the Project; (ii) preparation of Project reports; and (iii) preparation of 
procurement and disbursement documentation required under the Project.  

Part B:

Implementation Actions

1.

The Borrower shall: 

(a)

commencing on April 30, 1999, and annually thereafter, carry out 

technical audits in each Fiscal Year, until the completion of the Project in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank including an assessment of Project quality assurance, 
achievement of Project objectives pursuant to the Performance Indicators, and 
performance under contracts for goods and consultants’ services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and 

(b)

furnish to the Bank for comments, as soon as available, but not later 

than six months after the end of each such Year, a copy of such audit.

2.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31 of each year until the completion of the Project, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;

(c)

review with the Bank, by October 31 of each year, until the completion of 

the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, carry out an annual project implementation 
review to, inter alia: (i) evaluate progress achieved by the Borrower and BEPEKA, in 
carrying out the Project; (ii) assess progress in the carrying out of the training 
activities referred to under Part B of the Project; (iii) assess the level of 
counterpart funding provided by the Borrower for the timely implementation of Project 
activities during the previous  Fiscal Year and review the proposed allocations for 
the upcoming Fiscal Year; (iv) exchange views on progress achieved in the 
implementation of the AWP during the previous  Fiscal Year and proposed activities for 
the upcoming Fiscal Year; (v) assess progress achieved by the Borrower in implementing  
the recommendations of the HAPSEM; (vi) assess progress in developing and implementing 
BEPEKA’s strategy referr
ed to under Part A of the Project; (vii) assess and adjust, if necessary, the 
Performance Indicators; and (viii) identify any current implementation issues and 
propose solutions to resolve such issues; 

(d)

at the third annual review, carry out a comprehensive mid-term assessment 

of Project implementation; and 

(e)

thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reviews and the Bank views on the matter. 

3.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall through BEPEKA;

(a)

by not later than July 31, 2000, prepare, and furnish to the Bank for its 

review and comment, a time-bound action plan aimed at: (i) identifying and 
recommending technical, policy, institutional and legal improvements to the government 

auditing sector, with particular emphasis on the role and functions of BEPEKA within 
said sector, pursuant to the strategic planning activities detailed under Part A of 
the Project; and  (ii) formulating operational guidelines for the implementation of 
the proposed improvements, including, wherever feasible, initiatives for private 
sector participation in the government auditing sector; 

(b)

by not later than December 31, 2000, implement the action plan referred 
to in subparagraph (a) of this Section, in accordance with a timetable acceptable to 
the Bank, and taking into account any comments arising out of the Bank’s review; and 

(c)

by not later than October 31, 2001, exchange views with the Bank, on 

progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of said action plan.

4.

The Borrower shall ensure that:

(a)

 
out in accordance with programs and an implementation timetables acceptable to the 
Bank; and  

the training under Parts B.1 (a) and B.3 of the Project shall be carried 

(b)

qualified candidates are selected to receive overseas training financed 

out of the proceeds of the Loan, pursuant to selection criteria acceptable to the 
Bank, and in accordance with standard procedures established by the Borrower’s 
Overseas Training Office, including the implementation of bonding requirements, if 
applicable.

5.
BEPEKA:

For the purposes of Part B.1(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall through 

(a)

by not later than June 30, 1998, prepare, in consultation with the Bank, 

and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment draft on-the-job training program;

(b)

by not later than October 31, 1998, approve the final training program 

taking into account any comments arising out of the Bank’s review; and

(c)

promptly thereafter, implement said training program in accordance with a 

timetable acceptable to the Bank.

6.
BEPEKA: 

For the purposes of  Part B.2 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall through 

(a)

select pilot performance and financial audits to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan  using technical,  financial and economic criteria acceptable to 
the Bank, including, without limitation: (i) each pilot performance and financial 
audit shall be prepared by the respective Audit Unit of BEPEKA, all in accordance with 
technical, financial and auditing guidelines approved by the Bank;  and (ii)  each 
pilot performance and financial audit shall be developed with a view to test the 
improved quality of government auditing;

(b)

furnish to the Bank for its approval, by not later than October 31, in 

each year, until the completion of the Project, proposed pilot performance and 
financial audits  selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph 
(a) above;  and 

(c)

promptly after receiving  the Bank’s approval thereof, carry out the 

pilot performance and financial audits approved by the Bank, in accordance with 
procedures and technical guidelines issued by BEPEKA in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank.

SCHEDULE 6 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2)(a), (2)(b) and 

(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  

$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of  $2,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 

(i)

Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 

Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 

other 

evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payment or payments in respect of which 
requested. On the basis of each such 
behalf of the Borrower, 
deposit into the 
shall have 

Schedule for the 

replenishment is 

request, the Bank shall, on 
withdraw from the Loan Account and 

Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 

and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 

Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
eligible Categories, and in the 
shall have been 
evidence. 

shall be 
under the respective 
respective equivalent amounts, as 

justified by said documents and other 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

 (a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 

from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 

