CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4324 UA

(Kiev District Heating Improvement Project)

Loan Agreement

between

UKRAINE

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated October 14, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4324 UA

AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1998, between Ukraine (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project;

(B)

Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project will be carried out by Kievenergo (as 

hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to Kievenergo the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement;

(C)

the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in an amount of forty million Dollars 
($40,000,000) equivalent to assist in financing Parts B, C.3 and C.5 of  the Project 
on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and EBRD; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Kievenergo;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:

Section 6.03 is modified to read:

“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the Borrower 

determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 

action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 

withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 

the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 

required to finance the Project’s costs 
(c) at any time, the Bank 

to make 
respect to any amount of  the Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) 
at any time, the Bank 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or 
appropriate 
establishes the amount of 
otherwise have been eligible for 
(d) at any time, the Bank determines that the  procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of 
shall have received 
respect to an amount of the Loan, 
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
shall be canceled.” 

expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 

the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 

notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 

with the procedures set 
amount of 

the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 

Borrower to make withdrawals with 

such amount of the Loan 

proceeds of 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Kiev District Heating System” means the physically integrated system of 

heat production, transmission and distribution for the City of Kiev operated by 
Kievenergo and KMDHC;

(b)

“Kievenergo” means the state-owned joint stock energy-supply company 

established pursuant to Order No. 177 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Power and 
Electrification, dated August 31, 1995, and registered with Starokievsky Rayon State 
Administration on September 28, 1995, under No. 00131305, which is responsible for the 
generation, transportation, distribution and sale of electrical and thermal energy in 
the City of Kiev, and includes any successors to Kievenergo;

(c)

“KMDHC” means the Kiev Municipal District Heating Company established as 

a state municipal enterprise wholly-owned by the City of Kiev pursuant to the Order 
No. 368 of the Representative of the President of Ukraine to City Kiev, dated May 29, 
1992, and registered with the Kiev City State Administration on July 1, 1992, and 
includes any successor to KMDHC;

(d)

“NERC” means the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of the 

Borrower established by Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 738 on December 8, 
1994, and includes any successor to NERC;

(e)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Kievenergo 

of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

(f)
this Agreement;

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(g)

“Statutes of Kievenergo” means the statutes of Kievenergo, dated August 
31, 1995, and approved by the Minister of Power and Electrification of the Borrower, 
and any statutes that Kievenergo may adopt in the future as part of its restructuring, 
if any, agreed with the Bank; and

(h)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 

Borrower and Kievenergo pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 

Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

of one 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 

15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Loan Agreement, 
shall: 

(a)

cause the City of Kiev to carry out Part C.1 of the Project with due 

diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, accounting 
and financial practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate 
to enable the City of Kiev to carry out Part C.1 of the Project, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the ability of the 
City of Kiev to carry out Part C.1 of the Project;

(b)

cause Kievenergo to carry out Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project in 

accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of  
Kievenergo therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Kievenergo to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;

(c)

the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to Kievenergo under a 

subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Kievenergo, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.  Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following:

in Dollars 
semi-annual installments 
five years;

(i)

the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be denominated 
and shall be repaid by Kievenergo to the Borrower in 

over twenty years, including a grace period of 

(ii)

interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the 

subsidiary loan 
a rate equal to the rate 
time pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of this 
percent (1%);

withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 

payable by the Borrower from time to 

Agreement plus up to one 

(iii) a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the 

subsidiary 
from time to time 
and

loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; 

(d)

the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the City of Kiev to:

(a)

commence by the date falling two years after the Effective Date of this 
Loan Agreement a study of institutional structure of the district heating services in 
the City of Kiev under Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference 
agreed with the Bank, which study shall, among other things, review options for the 
most efficient institutional and corporate structure for the provision of district 
heating services in the City of Kiev, identify the requirements for effective 
management of the said services, corporate and operations alternatives and propose a 
strategy and an action plan for implementation of its recommendations; 

(b)

(c)

complete the said study within one (1) year of its commencement date; and

within three (3) months of completing the said study, submit to the Bank 

for review and comment the report summarizing the findings, conclusions and 
recommendations of the said study.

Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Kievenergo pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.

Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

furnish to the 
Date or such later date 
Bank and the Borrower, a plan 
and

(i)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 

Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 

for the future operation of the Project; 

the Borrower 

on said plan.

(ii)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Kievenergo to maintain records and 

accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of Kievenergo and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures relating to Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall cause Kievenergo to:

(i)

have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 

statements of income and expenses and related 

sheets, 
statements) and the records and 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
principles, consistently applied, by independent 

accounts for the Special Account for 

with appropriate auditing 

auditors 

acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 

later than six 
certified copies of the 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

financial statements referred to in 

audited; and (B) the 
in such 

records, accounts 
Bank shall from time to 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 

and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 

time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
Kievenergo to:

records and 

accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(i)

maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures; 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
related withdrawals.

expenditures submitted during such 
and internal controls 

support the 

Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NERC to establish electricity tariffs for 

Kievenergo at such levels as shall enable Kievenergo to meet the financial covenants 
set out in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Project Agreement.

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the City of Kiev to:

(a)

adjust heat tariffs for Kievenergo on a regular basis to such levels as 

shall enable Kievenergo to cover the costs of production, transmission and 
distribution, operation and maintenance, interest payments, make allowances for 
depreciation and make contributions to its reserves; and

(b)

maintain the present lack of cross-subsidization between heat tariffs 

payable by different categories of heat consumers.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Project Agreement.

Kievenergo shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Kievenergo will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c)

Statutes of  Kievenergo shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 

repealed or waived, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of Kievenergo to perform any of its obligations 

under the Project Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablish(cid:31)ment of Kievenergo or for the 
suspension of its operations.

(e)

The EBRD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 

September 1, 2000, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for Parts B, C.3 and C.5 of the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

(f)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

EBRD Loan 
terminated in whole or in part, 
Loan Agreement, or

(A)

the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 

shall have been suspended, canceled or 

pursuant to the terms of the EBRD 

agreed 

maturity thereof.

(B)

the EBRD Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

establishes 
cancellation, 
the failure of the Borrower to 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
of the Project are available to the Borrower from 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.

termination or prematuring is not caused by 
perform any of its obligations 
for Parts B, C.3 and C.5 

other sources 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

(b)

any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur; and

(c)

any event specified in paragraphs (e) or (f)(i) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed 
on behalf of the Borrower and Kievenergo.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 

Kievenergo, and is legally binding upon Kievenergo in accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by the Borrower and Kievenergo and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Kievenergo 
in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Minister of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky Street 
Kiev 252008 Ukraine

Telex:

131450

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

Telex:

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

UKRAINE

By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Paul Siegelbaum

Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. 

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
 in Dollars)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

(i)

Goods under Part
A of the Project;         
and

 188,800,000

(ii)

Goods under Part
C.2 of the Project

     100,000

Works under Part A
of the Project

   1,000,000

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally

100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures

Category

(1)

Goods 

(2)

(3)

(4)

Consultants’ services
and training under
Parts C.2 and C.4 (i)
of the Project

Incremental Operating
Costs under Part C.4
(ii) of the Project

     300,000

100%

     200,000

100%

(5)

Unallocated

TOTAL

   9,600,000

 200,000,000

2.

For  the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and

(c)

the term “incremental operating costs” means cost of audits required 

under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$7,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2 and 3 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1998.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 
equivalent; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve heat production capacity of 

the Kiev District Heating System in order to improve its reliability and service 
levels and enable it to better meet existing and expected future demand; (ii) 
rehabilitate and introduce modern technologies and materials into the said system in 
order to extend its life, increase its efficiency and enhance conservation; and (iii) 
promote sound cost recovery policies and practices and support institutional 
strengthening and commercialization of Kievenergo and KMDHC so as to optimize the 
manner in which district heating services are provided in Kiev, facilitate 
implementation of the Project as well as eventual privatization of the Kiev district 
heating service.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Kievenergo District Heating Improvement

1.
with new boilers, corresponding with output capacity of about 1000 Gcal/h.

Expansion and replacement of old and worn-out boilers at CT-1 and CT-2 plants 

Rehabilitation of other boilers at CT-1 and CT-2 plants and construction of a 

2.
new 100 m high stack at CT-1 plant to improve the environmental conditions in the 
center of Kiev.

Rehabilitation and expansion of boiler capacity at TETS 5 and TETS 6 CHP plants, 

3.
including construction of about 600 Gcal/h  of new capacity and reconstruction of the 
water treatment system at TETS 5.

4.
equipping it with new  boiler capacity of about 600 Gcal/h.

Completion of the partially-constructed boiler house at Pozniaki subdivision and 

5.
valves.

Replacement and rehabilitation of  about 80 km of old transmission networks and 

6.
installation of two 110 Kv power cable lines as part thereof.

Replacement of the electric substation servicing the center of Kiev and 

Part B:

KMDHC District Heating Improvement

Rehabilitation of  about 1,500 substations, including installation of heat 

meters, and rehabilitation of secondary networks of KMDHC. 

Part C:

Institutional Support

1.
services in the City of Kiev.  

Carrying out of a study of institutional structure of the district heating 

2.

3.

Provision of personnel training and equipment to Kievenergo.

Provision of personnel training and equipment to KMDHC.

4.
Provision of:  (i) technical assistance to Kievenergo required for 
implementation of Part A of the Project, including, inter alia, assistance with 
detailed design, construction supervision, as well as procurement and disbursement 
activities; and (ii) funding for the carrying out of audits required under the 
Project.

5.
of the Project.

Provision of technical assistance to KMDHC required for implementation of Part B 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. 

* * *

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

October 15, 2003
April 15, 2004
October 15, 2004
April 15, 2005
October 15, 2005
April 15, 2006
October 15, 2006
April 15, 2007
October 15 ,2007
April 15, 2008
October 15, 2008
April 15, 2009
October 15, 2009
April 15, 2010
October 15, 2010
April 15, 2011
October 15, 2011
April 15, 2012
October 15, 2012
April 15, 2013
October 15, 2013
April 15, 2014
October 15, 2014
April 15, 2015
October 15, 2015
April 15, 2016
October 15, 2016
April 15, 2017
October 15, 2017
April 15, 2018

Payment of Principal 
(expressed in Dollars)*

4,220,000 
4,345,000 
4,475,000 
4,610,000 
4,745,000 
4,885,000 
5,035,000 
5,180,000 
5,335,000 
5,495,000 
5,660,000 
5,825,000 
6,000,000 
6,180,000 
6,365,000 
6,550,000 
6,745,000 
6,950,000 
7,155,000 
7,365,000 
7,585,000 
7,810,000 
8,045,000 
8,285,000 
8,530,000 
8,785,000 
9,045,000 
9,315,000 
9,590,000 
9,890,000

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  Parts A, C.2 and C.4 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if Kievenergo, on behalf of the Borrower, shall have failed to furnish to 

the Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts 
A, C.2 and C.4 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
6.
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 

as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

