CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4323-JO

Loan Agreement

(Training and Employment Support Project)

THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May 22, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4323-JO

AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1998, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

“JD” or “Jordanian Dinar” means the currency of the Borrower;

“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated March 26, 1998, specifying 

the managerial, financial, administrative policies and procedures for the execution of 
the Project and the eligibility criteria for selection of Training Fund Subprojects 
(as such term is defined hereinafter) under Part A of the Project; as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;

"MOL" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor;

“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established in MOL for the 

implementation of the Project, and referred to in Paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;

(e)
this Agreement;

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(f)

“Training Fund Subproject" means any activity under Part A of the Project 

for the provision of short-term training to new employees and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; and

(g)

“Training Fund Executive Committee” means the committee headed by the 

Director of Employment of the Ministry of Labor, and consisting of representatives who 
are technical experts from the following: Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Social 
Development, National Center for Human Resources Development, Chamber of Industry, 
Union of the Chambers of Commerce, and two representatives from the labor 
organizations.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Training Fund Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is requested.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2002 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

date of this 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 

occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.(iv)"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 

interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 

respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions 

deposits, in 
thereof allocated by 
portions thereof made by it that 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
annum.

the Bank to fund single currency loans or 

include the Loan; as reasonably 

percentage per 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 

and November 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOL with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan: (i) required 
for Part A of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of paragraph 2(b)(v) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and (ii) required for Part B and Part C of the Project 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 

Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section 
fiscal year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 

later than six 
report of such audit by said 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

auditors, of such scope and in such 

requested; and

and 
to time reasonably 

request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Minister of Planning
P.O. Box 555
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

Cable address: 

Telex:

21319 NPC JO

For the Bank:

International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

By /s/ Marwan Muasher 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Inder K. Sud 

Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

   (Expressed in Dollars) to be Financed

Amount of the
Loan Allocated

   % of
Expenditures

(1)

Training Fund

   4,000,000

100%

Subprojects under
Part A of the
Project

(2)

Goods under
Part C of the
Project

     100,000

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost), and 80% of
local expenditures
for items procured
locally

Consultants’ services
and training

     400,000

100%

Operating Expenses

     100,000

95%

(3)

(4)

(5)

Unallocated

TOTAL

     400,000

   5,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and

(c)

the term “Operating Expenses” means expenditures for maintenance of 

vehicles and office equipment and provision of office supplies for the PIU.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after January 1, 1998.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) services under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services under contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iv) 
Operating Expenses; (v) Training Fund Subprojects under Part A of the Project; and 
(vi) training under Part C of the Project.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to test pilot the demand for, and effectiveness 

of, employer-based training supported by a training fund.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Training Fund

The provision of grants for the carrying out by employers, and public or private 

1.
vocational training providers, of Training Fund Subprojects for the training of newly 
recruited employees.

2.
analyses and employment intermediation.

The provision of support services for employers, including occupational needs 

Part B:

Monitoring and Evaluation

1.
and employment impact of Training Fund Subprojects.

Carrying out of surveys, assessments and studies to evaluate the productivity 

2.

Creation of a national database of training providers.

3.
outcome of the Project with existing vocational training programs.

Carrying out of a nation-wide study to compare the productivity and employment 

Part C:

Project Implementation

Strengthening the institutional capacity of the PIU in an effective, efficient 

and targeted way through the provision of equipment, technical assistance and 
training, including the provision of training in financial systems.

The Project is expected to be completed by August 30, 2001.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

November 15, 2002
May 15, 2003
November 15, 2003
May 15, 2004
November 15, 2004
May 15, 2005
November 15, 2005
May 15, 2006
November 15, 2006
May 15, 2007
November 15, 2007
May 15, 2008
November 15, 2008
May 15, 2009
November 15, 2009
May 15, 2010
November 15, 2010
May 15, 2011
November 15, 2011
May 15, 2012
November 15, 2012
May 15, 2013
November 15, 2013
May 15, 2014
November 15, 2014
May 15, 2015

130,000 
135,000 
140,000 
140,000 
145,000 
150,000 
155,000 
160,000 
165,000 
170,000 
175,000 
180,000 
185,000 
190,000 
195,000 
200,000 
210,000 
215,000 
220,000 
225,000 
235,000 
240,000 
250,000 
255,000 
265,000 
270,000

_________________________

*
as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement

Part A:

General

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 

"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:

The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.

2.

Prior Review

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 

thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 

2.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  

1.

Single Source Selection

Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.

Individual Consultants

Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 

Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

(c)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

(a)

1.
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall continue to maintain the Training Fund 
Executive Committee.

For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and efficient 

(b)

The functions of said Training Fund Executive Committee shall include, 

inter alia the evaluation of training proposals estimated to cost more than JD2500 
submitted to the PIU for funding.

(a)

2.
For the purpose of ensuring the proper execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain the PIU with organization, staffing and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.

(b)

The Borrower shall require the PIU to: (i) maintain arrangements 

satisfactory to the Bank, for the overall coordination and supervision of Project 
implementation; (ii) employ consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the carrying out of the Project; (iii) ensure 
that Training Fund Subprojects under Part A of the Project shall be made in accordance 
with the requirements and other details set forth in the Operational Manual; (iv) 
ensure that institutions carrying out Part A of the Project are selected in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; (v) require that: (A) the goods 
and consultants’ services to be financed out of the Training Fund Subprojects under 
Part A of the Project shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability 
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, 
in the case of cons
ultants’ services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; 
and (B) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
Training Fund Subprojects; and (vi) review with the Bank, at such intervals as the 
Bank or PIU shall request, the Operational Manual, and, based on such reviews, update 
the same as may be agreed between the Bank and PIU.

(c)

The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU will:

with the 

Operational Manual;

(i)

prepare annual work programs, budgets and reports in accordance 

annual work 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank prior to November 30 of each year its proposed 
programs, budgets and reports for the next year; and

annual work 

programs, budgets and reports.

(iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review such proposed 

(d)

The Borrower shall ensure that annual budgetary allocations required for 

the carrying out of the work programs during the following year are made.

3.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;

(b)

review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 

shall request, the early implementation of the Project;

(c)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;

(d)

review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 

shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and

(e)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, not later than April 30, 2001, the study to be carried out under Part B 
(3) of the Project.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $1,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Condition.

