CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4351 HR

(Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 8, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4351 HR 

AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the 

Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Hrvatske Vode (HV) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make  available to HV the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and HV;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Croatian Demining Council” means the Borrower’s agency established 

pursuant to the Government’s Resolution dated February 19, 1998 (Official Gazette, No. 
24/98); 

(b)

“Deutsche Marks” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 

Republic of Germany, but if such currency shall be replaced with the “Euro”, then 
“Deutsche Marks” and “DEM” shall be replaced by “Euro” for the purposes of the Loan, 
at the ratio in effect as of the date of such replacement; 

(c)

“HV” means Hrvatske Vode (the Croatian Water Management Enterprise) 

established pursuant to the Water Act of 1995 (Official Gazette, No. 107/95); 

(d)

“Kopacki Rit Nature Park” means the Public Institution “Kopacki Rit 

Nature Park” established pursuant to the By-Law “On Establishment of the Public 
Institution Kopacki Rit Nature Park” of 1997 (Official Gazette, No. 96/97);

(e)

“Mines” means landmines and includes explosive items such as bombs, booby 

traps, munitions and exploded ordnance of any kind; 

(f)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and HV of even 

date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;  

(g)

“Project Unit” means the unit within the Kopacki Rit Nature Park referred 

to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 

(h)

“Quality Assurance Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03(a) of 

this Agreement which has been established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior, 
or any successor thereto; 

(i)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

this Agreement; and 

(j)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and HV pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
seventy-four million Deutsche Marks (DEM 74,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank 
for value the first day 
the initial Interest Period, for 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
annum.

offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Marks 

of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
value the Interest Payment Date 

of such Interest Period), 
as a percentage per 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

January 15 and July 15 in each year. 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall 
cause HV to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all 

the obligations of HV therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary 
or appropriate to enable HV to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to HV (the Subsidiary 

Loan for the purposes of this paragraph) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and HV under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank and which shall include, without limitation, the following:  

in Deutsche 
Marks in equal 
including a grace period of five 

(i)

the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated 

Marks and shall be repaid by HV to the Borrower in Deutsche 

semi-annual installments over fifteen years, 

years;  

Subsidiary Loan 
to the Bank in 
of this Agreement; and  

(ii)

an interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 

at a rate equivalent to the rate paid by the Borrower 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05 

the Subsidiary 
equivalent to the rate 
Agreement, minus any waiver.  

(iii) a commitment charge shall be charged on the principal amount of 

Loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 

established in Section 2.04 of this 

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,  except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the 

Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain, with adequate staff and resources, the Quality Assurance Unit 

which shall be responsible for: (i) setting the standards for Mine clearing works; 
(ii) reviewing the standard operating procedures and safety regulations of Mine 
clearing agencies; and (iii) conducting quality assurance tests to ensure compliance 
of Mine clearing agencies with accepted international standards for humanitarian mine 
clearance;  

(b)

ensure that all Mine clearance activities are carried out and all Mines 

cleared under the Project are promptly destroyed in accordance with appropriate safety 
standards and guidelines; and 

(c)

cause the Croatian Demining Council to provide all necessary assistance 

to HV required for implementation of Part C of the Project.

Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 

the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.05. For the purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, the 

Borrower shall cause the Kopacki Rit Nature Park to:  

(a)

maintain the Project Unit during the execution of the Project, with 

adequate staff and resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to 
cooperate with HV in the implementation of Part D of the Project.  

(b)

submit to HV before November 30 of each calendar year during the 

execution of the Project, an annual work program for the next calendar year and shall 
review these programs with HV before implementing them; and  

(c)

submit to HV not later than April 30 of each calendar year during the 

execution of the Project, an annual report describing the progress achieved in 
carrying out of Part D of the Project during the preceding year.

Section 3.06.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by HV 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 

(i)
of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account 

accordance with appropriate 

independent 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

(6) months after the end of each such year, the 

not later than six 
report of such audit by said 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

auditors, of such scope and in 

requested; and

records and 
shall from time to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 

request.

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

HV shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

Agreement; 

(b)

as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HV will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 

(c)

the development activity for which the land or facilities has or have 

been cleared of Mines under the Project is, in the sole opinion of the Bank, 
jeopardized by laying down new Mines anywhere in the territory of the Borrower. 

Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank or the 
Borrower. 

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and HV.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: (a)
authorized or ratified by HV, and is legally binding upon HV in accordance with its 
terms; and (b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and HV and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HV in 
accordance with its terms. 

that the Project Agreement has been duly 

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Katanciceva 5
41000 Zagreb
Republic of Croatia

Telex:

862-21215
862-21833

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

By /s/ Miomir Zuzul

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann

Authorized Representative

Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
     DEM Equivalent)

   % of
Expenditures

to be Financed

(1)

(2)

(3)

Category

Works

Consultants’ services
and Training

Goods except for Part
D.3

 43,710,000

  7,290,000

 14,570,000

60%

100%

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 85% of
local expenditurews for
goods procured locally

(4)

Unallocated

TOTAL

  8,430,000

 74,000,000

2.

For the purpose of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  

3.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed DEM 7,400,000  may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 
1997.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; (ii) services provided by consulting firms 
under contracts costing less that $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts costing less then $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) 
training expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (i) to repair and reconstruct critically 
needed water sector infrastructure to restart the local economy in the regions of 
Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem; (ii) to protect Kopacki Rit nature 
reserve from the possible adverse impact of adjacent agricultural activities; and 
(iii) clear Mines in the Project areas.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Flood Control and Drainage 

1.
area, including repairs of the Drava River-bank protection system. 

Repair of dikes to restore a safe level of flood protection for the Baranja 

2.
area of the drainage network in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia. 

Repair of pumping stations needed to evacuate excess water from the catchment 

3.
from agricultural fields in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia. 

Cleaning the primary and secondary canals required to efficiently drain water 

4.
drainage canals in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia.

Provision of operation and maintenance equipment for maintaining dikes and 

Part B:

Wastewater Management 

Reconstruction of the municipal wastewater treatment plant in Vinkovci. 

1.

2.

Extension  of the wastewater collector system.

Part C:

Mine Clearing  

Clearance of Mines in  the areas to be rehabilitated under the Project.

Part D:

Nature Protection 

1.
nature reserve and provision of water quality monitoring equipment. 

Preparation of a management plan and monitoring program for the Kopacki Rit 

2.
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of 
the State Directorate for Nature and Environmental Protection and of the Kopacki Rit 
Nature Park. 

3.
and supervisory equipment for the Kopacki Rit Nature Park. 

Provision of boats, all-terrain vehicles, a geographic information system (GIS), 

Rehabilitation of the blinds (observation areas), fishponds, park management 

4.
facilities and other infrastructure necessary to provide long-term environmental 
protection for Kopacki Rit nature reserve. 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

On each January 15 and July 15

 Payment of Principal 
(expressed in DEMs)*

beginning January 15, 2004
through July 15, 2013

3,700,000.00

______________________

*
except as 

The figures in this column represent the amount in Deutsche Marks to be repaid, 

provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to DEM 5,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
DEM 1,800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceeds the equivalent 

of DEM 7,300,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories for that Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that Special Account, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for that 
Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special 
Account shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 

payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

