CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4306 IND

Loan Agreement

(Maluku Regional Development Project)

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May 1, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4306 IND 

AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 

of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable t+o Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 

requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of  

Part  B.1 of  the  Project,  has  or  would  have  his  or  her: (i) standard of 
living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; 

(b)

“BANGDA” means the Directorate General of Regional Development within the 

Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower; 

(c)

“BAPPEDA Tk. I” means the Provincial Development Planning Agency 

established and operating within the Borrower’s Province of Maluku; 

(d)

“BAPPEDA Tk. II” means the Kabupaten Development Planning Agency 

established and operating within each Participating Kabupaten; 

(e)

“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 

and any successor thereto; 

(f)

“BIPP” means Balai Informasi dan Penyuluhan Pertanian, the Kabupaten 

agricultural information and extension center established and operating or to be 
established and operated within each Participating Kabupaten;

(g)

“BPN” means Badan Pertanahan Nasional, the Borrower’s National Land 

Agency, established and operating pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 26 of 1988, and 
any successor thereto; 

(h)

“BPP” means Balai Penyuluhan Pertanian, a rural agricultural extension 

center established and operating within a Participating Kecamatan; 

“Camat” means the Head of a Kecamatan; 

(i)

(j)

paragraph 1 of Section A.I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 

“CGC” means the Central Guidance Committee maintained in accordance with 

(k)

“DINAS” means a technical agency; “DINAS Tk I” means a technical agency 

established and operating at the provincial level; and “DINAS Tk. II” means a 
technical agency established and operating within a Participating Kabupaten; 

(l)

“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing April 1 

and ending March 31; 

(m)

"Grant" means a grant to be made available by the Borrower to a 

Participating Village to finance a Sub-project under Part B of the Project, partly out 
of the proceeds of the Loan;

(n)

"Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the guidelines 

prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Bank; 

(o)

“Guidelines for Credits and Revolving Funds” means the guidelines to be 

prepared by the Borrower, approved by the Bank, and thereafter issued in the form of a 
Petunjuk Pelaksanaan in accordance with paragraph 6 (a) of Section B of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 

(p)

"Guidelines for Implementation of Tree Crop Development and 

Rehabilitation" means the guidelines for carrying out Part A of the Project, to be 
prepared by the Borrower, approved by the Bank, and thereafter issued in the form of a 
Petunjuk Pelaksanaan in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of Section B of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; 

(q)

"Guidelines for Implementation of Village Grants" means the guidelines 
for Part B of the Project, to be prepared by the Borrower, approved by the Bank, and 
thereafter issued in the form of a Petunjuk Pelaksanaan in accordance with paragraph 4 
of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Guidelines may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;

(r)

“AIAT” means the Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology, 

established by Decree No. 798/Kpts/OT.210/12/94 of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture dated December 13, 1994; 

(s)

“Inputs Credit” means a credit to be made available by the Borrower to a 
farmer, in the form of a grant or a loan, to finance agricultural inputs under Part A 
of the Project, in part out of the proceeds of the Loan; 

(t)

“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that 

have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof; 

(u)

“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division within a 

province of the Borrower; 

“KANWIL” means the provincial office of a Ministry; 

“Kecamatan” means an administrative sub-district within a Kabupaten; 

“Kepala Desa” means the Head of a village; 

“LKMD” means a village development council, headed by the Kepala Desa; 

(v)

(w)

(x)

(y)

(z)

Maluku Tengah and Kabupaten Maluku Utara in the Borrower’s Province of Maluku;

“Participating Kabupatens” means Kabupaten Halmahera Tengah, Kabupaten 

(aa)

“Participating Kecamatans” means the following Kecamatans in the 

Borrower’s Province of Maluku for Part A of the Project: Galela, Jailolo, Kao, Maba, 
Makian/Malifut, Morotai Selatan, Oba, Seram Barat, Seram Utara, Tobelo, Wasile, and 
Weda; and the following Kecamatans in the Borrower’s Province of Maluku for Parts B, 
C, D and E of the Project: Amahai, Buru Utara Timur, Galela, Jailolo, Kao, Maba, 
Makian/Malifut, Morotai Selatan, Oba, Seram Barat, Seram Utara, Tobelo, Tehoru, 
Wasile, and Weda; 

(bb)

"Participating Village" means a village that is legally recognized as 

such by the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs, and is in a Participating Kecamatan 
in which a Sub-project is carried out; 

(cc)

"Pimpro" means a Project manager at the central and relevant provincial 

and Kabupaten level; 

(dd)

“PMD Tk. I” means the Pembangunan Masyarakat Desa, the village community 

development agency, established and operating at the provincial level; 

(ee)

“POSKESWAN” means Pos Kesehatan Hewan, an animal health clinic;

(ff)

“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 

measure the Borrower’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 

(gg)

"Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower; 

(hh)

"Sub-project" means a village infrastructure investment project to be 

carried out under Part B.1 of the Project, or a village investment project for income- 
generating activities to be carried  out  under  Part B.2 of the Project; and 

(ii)
this Agreement. 

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixteen 
million three hundred thousand dollars ($16,300,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 

and October 15 in each year. 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, agriculture, engineering, environmental, financial and social 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b) 

The Borrower shall: 

Section, 
year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank; 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than nine 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and 

and 
to time reasonably 

request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

(a) of this 

Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures; 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V 

Termination 

ARTICLE VI 

Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia

Cable address:

Telex:

FINMINISTRY
Jakarta

45799 DJMLN-IA
44319 DEPKEU-IA

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti, Ambassador

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Acting Regional Vice President 

East Asia and Pacific

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
   Dollars)

Category

(1)
 

Civil works under:

(a) Part C.2 of
    the Project

   100,000

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

90%

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 60% of local
expenditures for

locally

100%

other items procured

(b) Part C.4 (b)
    of the Project

   300,000

(c) Part D of
    the Project

 1,300,000

(d) Other

   200,000

Goods, excluding
vehicles, under:
 
(a) Part A of the
    Project

 2,100,000

(b) Parts C, D and    400,000
    E of the Project

Goods, works and
services under 
Part B of the Project
for Sub-projects

 7,600,000

Service delivery 
contracts under
Parts A, C.1 (a)
and C.5 of the
Project

Training under
Parts A, B, C and
E of the Project

Research,
surveys and studies

   500,000

   400,000

   300,000

 1,400,000

 1,200,000
 _________

16,300,000

Travel

Consultants’
services

(9)

Unallocated

TOTAL

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

   500,000 

80%

90%

100%

90%

100%

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 

(c)

the term “travel” means expenditures for transportation and travel 

allowances for Project staff.

3.
made in respect of:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;

(b)

payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) (a) until the 
management and staffing plans referred to in paragraph 10 of Section B of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement have been issued;

(c)

payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) (b) until the 

Bank has approved the results of the marine resource profiles and the fisheries 
infrastructure recommendations furnished pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 11 of 
Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(d)

payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (2) (a) until the 

Guidelines for Implementation of Tree Crop Development and Rehabilitation have been 
issued pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Section B of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; and

(e)

payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3) until the 
Guidelines for Implementation of Village Grants have been issued pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 4 of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works and goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) service  delivery  
contracts; (iii) goods, works and services under Sub-projects;  (iv) training; (v) 
research and studies; (vi) travel; and (vii) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the 
employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) alleviating 
poverty in its Province of Maluku through rural development; and (ii) generating 
economic growth in rural  and coastal areas of its Province of Maluku where growth 
potential is high.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Tree Crop Development and Rehabilitation 

Carrying out of tree crop development and rehabilitation in the Participating 

Kecamatans through the provision of Inputs Credits and training for farmers and 
relevant Project staff.

Part B:

Village Grants for Infrastructure and Income-Generation Activities 

Carrying out of village infrastructure investment projects in Participating 

1.
Villages, through the provision of Grants and training for beneficiaries and relevant 
Project staff.

Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in Participating Villages, 

2.
through the provision of Grants and training for beneficiaries and relevant Project 
staff.

Part C:

Support Services for Agriculture and Fisheries

1.
through: 

Enhancing agricultural and fisheries processing and marketing activities 

(a)

the carrying out of demonstration activities in Participating Kecamatans 
for the testing of processing initiatives, and provision of assistance to villages in 
formulating proposals for income-generating activities relating to such initiatives, 
including provision of advisory services; and 

(b)

the establishment of a marketing advisory service in Ambon, in Kabupaten 
Maluku Tengah to assist in the identification of buyers for processed commodities and 
to facilitate market linkages, including provision of advisory services.

2.

Strengthening animal health and extension services through:

(a)

the establishment of BIPPs in Masohi in Kabupaten Maluku Tengah, Ternate 

in Kabupaten Maluku Utara, and Soa Siu in Kabupaten Halmahera Tengah, including 
provision of civil works, equipment and materials;  

(b)

the establishment of POSKESWAN in Kecamatan Maba, Makian/Malifut, Morotai 

Selatan and Weda, and upgrading of POSKESWAN in Kecamatan Tobelo and Seram Utara, 
including provision of civil works, equipment and materials;  

(c)

the strengthening of the animal  health and the extension capabilities of  

DINAS Tk. II for Livestock in Kecamatan Buru Utara Timur, Maba, Makian/Malifut, 
Morotai Selatan, Oba, Wasile, and Weda, through the provision of training to staff and 
farmers, and provision of equipment and materials; and 

(d)

upgrading of ten BPPs in the Participating Kabupatens, including 

provision of civil works, equipment and materials.

3.

Improving farming system technology diffusion through:

the carrying out of farm and site demonstrations by AIAT at Ambon; and

farmers, and the provision of equipment, publications and materials.

the provision of training to BIPP, BPP, agricultural extension staff and 

(a)

(b)

4.

Strengthening fisheries and marine support through: 

(a)

the carrying out of fisheries and coastal marine resource profiles for 

the Province of Maluku, including recommendations on development and management of 
fisheries resources and shore-based infrastructure; and  

(b)

the construction of fisheries infrastructure in the Participating 

Kabupatens based on the results of the fisheries and marine resource profiles and 
recommendations carried out under Part C.4 (a) of the Project. 

Development of facilities for seed multiplication for irrigated agriculture 

5.
through the strengthening of the capacity of the Food Crop Seed Multiplication 
Facility (BBI) in Kecamatan Kairatu to produce foundation seed, the establishment of a 
Seed Farm (BBU) in Kecamatan Seram Utara and in Kecamatan Wasile to produce extension 
seed, the provision of training to farmers, and the provision of inputs and equipment.

Part D:

Sea Transportation and On-Shore Facilities

Strengthening maritime trade in the Province of Maluku, through the construction 

of (i) two docks and storage facilities in Participating Kecamatan, including at Buli 
in Kecamatan Maba; (ii) dock extensions in the town of Tobelo in Kecamatan Tobelo and 
the town of Amahai in Kecamatan Amahai; and (iii) storage facilities in the towns of 
Weda, Jailolo, Wahai, Namlea and Subiam in Kecamatan Weda, Jailolo, Seram Utara, Buru 
Utara Timur, and Wasile, respectively.

Part E:
and Evaluation

Capacity Building for Project Management, Coordination, and Monitoring 

Strengthening Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation capacity of 

1.
BAPPEDA Tk. I and BAPPEDA Tk. II through the provision of equipment, staff training 
and technical assistance. 

Strengthening the capacity of the office of the Camat in the Participating 

2.
Kecamatans and the LKMDs in the Participating Villages to identify and select 
Sub-projects and prepare action plans for proposed Sub-projects, and of the LKMDs to 
implement approved Sub-projects, through the provision of training and technical 
assistance. 

3.
Strengthening the capacity of the KANWIL for Industry and Trade and the 
provincial chamber of commerce (KADINDA) to conduct market surveys and promote 
investment opportunities, and strengthening the capacity of DINAS Tk. II for Industry 
and Trade to carry out demonstration activities for village processing, through the 
provision of training and technical assistance. 

Carrying out of mapping of the Participating Kecamatans for purposes of spatial 

4.
planning, directing development, and conserving important biological habitats, 
ecological systems and natural features, through acquisition of satellite imagery and 
provision of related equipment and technical assistance to BPN.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

A.

General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 

(c)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

Agreement. 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 

B.

Interest 

1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings: 

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 

Period, below 
other reference rates, for 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 

six-month deposits, in respect of the 

portions thereof allocated by the 

portions thereof made by 

Interest 

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 

Date for such 
interbank offered rates, or 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 

Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 

other reference rates, for 

outstanding 

loans 

Disbursed 
as a percentage per 

annum. 

(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 

Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 

The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 

4.
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment 

1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twelfth (12th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-sixth (1/6) of such Disbursed Amount. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

2.
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General 

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B:

Procurement Procedures 

1.

National Competitive Bidding 

Except as otherwise provided in this Part, goods and works shall be procured 

under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 

2.

National Shopping 

Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

3.

Community Participation 

Goods and works required for Parts A and B of the Project may be procured in 

accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 

4.

Procurement of Small Works 

Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 

procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Part C:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

1.

Procurement Planning 

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 

equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to the first two contracts for works and goods under 

Sub-projects in FY 1998/1999 and FY 1999/2000 in each Participating Kabupaten costing 
$5,000 equivalent or more each, the following procedures shall apply:

(i)

for contracts costing $50,000 equivalent but less than $100,000 

equivalent, 
to the Guidelines 

equivalent:

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 

shall apply; and 

(ii)

for contracts costing $5,000 equivalent but less than $50,000 

such 
shall provide to the 
evaluation of quotations received; 

(A)

prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 

contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
Bank a report on the comparison and 

(B)

prior to the execution of any such contract procured under 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
specifications and the draft contract; 

Appendix 1 

to the Guidelines shall apply. 

(C)

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 

shopping 
Bank a copy of the 
and 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997  and 
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 

The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 

2.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts B, C.1 (b) and C.3 of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Single Source Selection

Services under Part C.1 (a) and C.3 of the Project which are estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 

2.

Service Delivery Contractors

Services to be provided by farmers for demonstrations and seed multiplication 

under Parts A, C.1 (a) and C.5 of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Selection Planning 

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 

SCHEDULE 5 

Implementation Program

Agencies and Institutions Responsible for Project Coordination and 

Section A:
Implementation

I.

Project Coordination

The Borrower shall ensure that the following arrangements for Project 
coordination are established and maintained until completion of the Project: 

The CGC shall be responsible for coordination of the Project at the central 

1.
level and shall provide policy guidance. The CGC shall be chaired by BAPPENAS, through 
its Deputy for Regional Development. Members shall include representation of the 
Ministry of Finance (Directorate General of Budget), the Ministry of Home Affairs 
(BANGDA), the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Industry and Trade (Directorate 
General of Agriculture and Forestry Products), and the Ministry of Communications 
(Directorate General of Sea Communication). BANGDA, through its Directorate for Area 
Development, shall serve as the Secretariat of the CGC. 

The Provincial Project Coordination Committee, chaired by the head of BAPPEDA 

2.
Tk. I, shall be responsible, at the provincial level, for the coordination of Project 
activities with other relevant agencies of the Borrower.  

3.
A Kabupaten Project Coordination Committee shall be established in each 
Participating Kabupaten not later than August 1, 1998, chaired by the head of BAPPEDA 
Tk. II, and responsible, at the Kabupaten level, for the coordination of Project 
activities with other relevant agencies of the Borrower.

A Kecamatan Task Force shall be established in each Kecamatan selected as 

4.
Participating Kecamatan in the initial year of the Project, not later than August 1, 
1998, chaired by the Camat, and responsible, at the Kecamatan level, for the 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of proposed Sub-projects under Part B of the 
Project.  

At the provincial level, there shall be Pimpros, based in Ambon, responsible for 

5.
the coordination of Parts A, C. 1, C. 3, C. 4, C. 5, D and E of the Project, 
respectively, and in each Participating Kabupaten there shall be Pimpros responsible 
for the coordination of Parts  B, C. 2, C. 3 and E of the Project, respectively. 

II.  Project Implementation

The Borrower shall ensure that the following arrangements for Project 

implementation are maintained until completion of the Project:

The following entities shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A of 

(a)

the Directorate General of Estates of the Ministry of Agriculture at the 

1.
the Project:

central level;

(b)

the Project Management Office with competent staff in adequate numbers, 

including a Pimpro, at the provincial level; and

(c)

the Project Management Units in the Participating Kecamatans with 

competent staff in adequate numbers. 

The following entities shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B of 

2.
the Project: (a) BAPPEDA Tk. II at the Kabupaten level; (b) the Camat and the 
Committee for Kecamatan Planning and Coordination (UDKP) at the Kecamatan level; (c) 
the LKMD in each Participating Village, assisted by local community organizers, at the 
village level; and (d) DINAS Tk. II for Public Works for the administration of Project 
activities under Part B. 1 of the Project, including entering into village 
implementation agreements with LKMDs. DINAS Tk. II for Public Works shall delegate 
technical and field work to field engineers.

The following entities shall be responsible for the implementation of Part C of 

3.
the Project: (a) for Part C.1 of the Project, the Pimpro for the KANWIL for Industry 
and Trade, at the provincial level; (b) for Part C.2 of the Project, the BIPPs in each 
Participating Kabupaten and DINAS Tk. II for Livestock; (c) for Part C.3 of the 
Project, AIAT at Ambon; (d) for Part C.4 of the Project, DINAS Tk. I for Fisheries; 
and (e) for Part C.5 of the Project, DINAS Tk. I for Food Crops. 

4.
of the Project.

The KANWIL for Communications shall be responsible for the execution of Part D 

Section B:

Implementation Actions

1.

In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a)

select farmers to whom and activities for which Inputs Credits shall be 

provided in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Guidelines for 
Implementation of Tree Crop Development and Rehabilitation, such criteria to include 
the following:

(i)
agro-inputs for 
crops shall only be made 
planting and for no more than a 

Inputs Credits in the form of grants for the acquisition of 

tree crops, intercropped with food, forage and other 

available to farmers for the initial year of 

half hectare; 

(ii)

Inputs Credits for the second and third year of tree crop 

in the form of loans under terms and 

production shall be 
conditions set forth in the Guidelines 
provided, however, that loans shall not be 
hectare; and 

for Credits and Revolving Funds, 
made for more than a half 

(iii) Inputs Credits shall not be used for the planting of cacao; and

(b)

prepare and issue Guidelines for Implementation of Tree Crop Development 
and Rehabilitation, acceptable to the Bank, such Guidelines to include the description 
of, among others, procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting 
requirements, the Project Performance Indicators, environmental criteria, selection 
criteria for eligibility of farmers to receive Input Credits; ensure that, until 
completion of the Project, the Guidelines are made available to Participating Villages 
and applied in the carrying out of Part A of the Project; and periodically update the 
Guidelines, if needed, with the prior agreement of the Bank.

A proposed Sub-project selected by a village under Part B of the Project shall 

2.
qualify as eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if the proposed 
Sub-project has been selected in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for 
Implementation of Village Grants, including the following provisions: 

(a)

the Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project is a public 

infrastructure investment project and is technically and environmentally viable, and 
economically justified by the number of beneficiaries; 

(b)

the Sub-project proposed under Part B.2 of the Project is an 

income-generating activity, is technically, economically and environmentally viable, 
and is not aimed at increasing fisheries exploitation; and

(i)

for  a  proposed  Sub-project  under  Part B.1  of the Project: 
of the Grant approved for a Sub-project under Part 
Participating Village does not exceed 

(c)
(A) the amount 
B.1 of the Project in a 
$20,000 equivalent, and (B) the total 
Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project 
Village, when added to the amount of the Grant proposed 
for the Sub-project, does not exceed $40,000 equivalent; and

amount of all Grants approved for 
in such Participating 

to be made 

(ii)

for a proposed Sub-project  under  Part  B.2  of  the  Project: 
of the Grant approved for a Sub-project under Part 
Participating Village does not exceed 

(A) the amount 
B.2 of the Project in a 
$10,000, and (B) the total amount of all 
Sub-projects under Part B.2 of the Project in such 
Village, when added to the amount of the Grant proposed to be 
for the Sub-project, does not exceed $20,000; (d)

Grants approved for 

the Sub-project 

Participating 

made 

proposal has been publicly discussed among, and agreed to by, the villagers in 
the Participating Village under the coordination of the Kepala Desa and 

LKMD; 

and 

(e)

the Sub-project proposal has been furnished to the respective Camat for 

review and comments and has been approved by the Kecamatan Task Force.

3.
carrying out of a Sub-project under Part B of the Project: 

The Borrower shall, through the relevant Pimpro, ensure that, prior to the 

(a)

for a Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project, the field engineer shall 

have completed the technical review of such Sub-project; and for a Sub-project under 
Part B.2 of the Project the community development facilitator shall have completed the 
technical review of such Sub-project;

(b)

the field engineer for a Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project, and 

the community development facilitator, for a Sub-project under Part B.2 of the 
Project, shall have confirmed the following in respect of the said Sub-project:

been complied 

with;

(i)

all requirements set forth in paragraph 2 of this Section have 

(ii)

all necessary measures have been taken to avoid or minimize land 

and displacement of Affected Persons under the proposed 

acquisition 
Sub-project in 
Guidelines for Implementation of Village 

accordance with the provisions of the 

Grants;

complied with, and, 
arrangements have been completed as 
for Compensation and Resettlement and 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons;

(iii) the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been 

if applicable, appropriate compensation 

set forth under such Guidelines 
paragraph 5 below and are 

been obtained, 
be made by the respective 

Participating Village;

(iv)

necessary funding to finance fully the proposed Sub-project has 

including a Grant and any voluntary contributions to 

(v)

an implementation plan for the Sub-project has been prepared in 

accordance 
Implementation of Village Grants; 

with the provisions of the Guidelines for 
and

(vi)

a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 

has been prepared in accordance with the Guidelines for 

Sub-project 
Implementation of 
of maintenance responsibilities 
the preparation of training programs 
capabilities of the Participating Village, and 
of available sources of financing to carry out such 

Village Grants, which shall include assignment 
in the respective Participating Village, 

to strengthen the maintenance 

the identification 

programs. 

In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and issue 

4.
Guidelines for Implementation of Village Grants, acceptable to the Bank, to assist the 
Participating Villages in the implementation of Part B of the Project, such Guidelines 
to include the description of, among others, procurement procedures and standard 
documentation, reporting requirements, the Project Performance Indicators, the 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, environmental criteria applicable to 
Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under 
Sub-projects and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects; ensure that, until 
completion of the Project, the Guidelines are made available to Participating Villages 
and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and periodically update the 
Guidelines, if needed, with the prior agreement of the Bank.

5.

In carrying out  Part B.1 of the Project: 

(a)

the Borrower shall take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of 

land or assets and to avoid the displacement of villagers; 

(b)

where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 

is unavoidable, the Borrower shall, before carrying out the works which would result 
in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such villagers, compensation in 
accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and

(c)

in the event that hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by a 

Sub-Project, the Borrower shall:

Compensation 
approval; and

(i)

prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 

and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Bank for 

(ii)

prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected 

Persons shall 
provisions of said plan as 

have been compensated in accordance with the 

approved by the Bank.

6.

In carrying out Parts A and B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

not later than June 30, 1999, prepare and issue Guidelines for Credits 

and Revolving Funds, acceptable to the Bank, such Guidelines to include the 
description of, among others, the terms and conditions of loans under Part A of the 
Project and the procedures for the establishment and maintenance of revolving funds; 
and periodically update the Guidelines, if needed, with the prior agreement of the 
Bank; and  

(b)

ensure that villages shall, where applicable, establish and maintain a 

revolving fund for purposes of activities under Parts A and B.2 of the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in the Guidelines for Credits and Revolving 
Funds. 

7.
the Project, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall acquire any land required for purposes of Parts C and D of 

8.
of Isolated Vulnerable People, the Borrower shall take measures to: 

In accordance with the Borrower’s commitment to the protection of the interests 

(a)

avoid adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused or likely to 

be caused by the Project; and 

(b)

through a process of informed participation, involve concerned Isolated 

Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of Project activities so as to 
ensure that the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People under the Project 
are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their 
customary user rights.

9.

The Borrower shall: 

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 

(c)

review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 

shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

In carrying out Part C.2 (a), (b) and (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall 
10.
prepare, and furnish to the Bank, management and staffing plans for the BIPPs, BPPs 
and POSKESWAN, acceptable to the Bank. 

In carrying out Part C.4 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the 

11.
Bank for approval the results of the fisheries and marine resource profiles, 
infrastructure recommendations and the proposed management plans. 

12.
required for the carrying out of  Part E of the Project. 

The Borrower shall, not later than August 1, 1998, employ the consultants 

In carrying out Parts A, B, and C of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later 

13.
than August 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank for comments a Project information 
dissemination plan.  

14.
Project in accordance with a training program agreed with the Bank. 

The Borrower shall carry out the training under Parts A, B, C and E of the 

15.
C.5 and E of the Project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.

The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required under Part A,  B,  C.2,  C.3, 

SCHEDULE 6

Project Performance Indicators 
Project Component Performance Indicator

Hectares of new tree crops planted, and Hectares replanted with coconut or 

Part A:

Tree Crops Development

intensified with coffee intercropping.

By Mid-term:      3,000 hectares  
By Completion:    7,500 hectares

Part B:

Community Development Number of Infrastructure Sub-projects completed.

Number of Income-Generation Enterprises in operation.

By Mid-term:  75 grants for infrastructure and

75 for income generation

By Completion: at least 200 grants for infra-structure and 200 for income generation 
have been awarded

Part C:

Support Services for

By Mid-term: 

The marketing unit has been  Agriculture and Fisheries established, and 

processing demonstrations have been conducted in 20 locations and are  operational.

Each BIPP has managed training for extension personnel totaling 370 person days.  

All POSKESWAN are operational. Completion of fishery resource profiles. Rice seed 
farms for planting 2,500 hectares per year have been established.  About 250 farmer 
seed growers have been trained.

By Completion: 
in 35 villages. All BIPP (3), BPP (10) and POSKESWAN (7) facilities are staffed and 
operational.

Agricultural and processing demonstrations have been established 

Fisheries landing sites have been constructed if recommended by the studies. Rice seed 
farms are able to provide seed for at least 6,000 hectares. About 500 farmer seed 
growers have been trained.

Part D:
Facilities
new docks and on-shore facilities constructed.

Sea Transportation and By Mid-term: Construction of two dock On-Shore 
extensions and at least one new dock. By Completion: All dock extensions, 

Part E:
Project Management, By Mid-term: Completion of Baseline Survey 
Coordination, Monitoring and Project Information Dissemination Plan. All and 
Evaluation consultants have been employed. All Kecamatan maps have been completed and 
the Data Book has been published. By Completion:  All evaluation studies have been 
finalized.

SCHEDULE 7 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$650,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,600,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 

the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 

furnish to 
to para(cid:31)graph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
6.
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 

Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

