CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4326 UZ

Loan Agreement

(Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project)

REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 16, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4326 UZ 

AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (the 

Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by the Hokimiyat of Tashkent (as 

hereinafter defined) with the assistance of: (i) the Borrower, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Hokimiyat of Tashkent the proceeds 
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and (ii) Proizvodstvennoe Upravlenie 
Spetstrans (Spetstrans) as provided in the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 

(C)

the Borrower is expected to enter into a loan agreement (the EBRD Loan 

Agreement) with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in an 
aggregate principal amount of US$21,000,000 to assist in financing a portion of Parts 
A and B of the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in the EBRD Loan 
Agreement; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 

Agreement and in the Project Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Charter” means the Charter of Spetstrans, dated August 10, 1993, as 

amended to the date of this Agreement, and includes other founding documents 
registered therewith with the Hokimiyat of Tashkent in accordance with applicable 
legislation of the Borrower.

(b)

“CPIU” means the Central Project Implementation Unit established in the 

Borrower’s Ministry of Macro-Economics and Statistics and includes any successor 
thereto.

(c)

“Hokimiyat of Tashkent” means the municipality of Tashkent, an 

administrative agency of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors 
thereto.

(d)

“MPIU” means the Municipal Project Implementation Unit to be established 

or established in the Hokimiyat of Tashkent under Part B (1) of the Project and 
includes any successor thereto.

(e)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the 

Hokimiyat of Tashkent and Spetstrans, of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(f)
this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(g)

“Spetstrans” means Proizvodstvennoe Upravlenie Spetstrans, a legal entity 

established under the Charter by the Hokimiyat of Tashkent for undertaking municipal 
solid waste management, and includes any successor or successors thereto.

(h)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered or to be entered 

into between the Borrower and the Hokimiyat of Tashkent pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “Subsidiary Loan” means 
the loan granted under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(i)

“Sum” means the currency of the Borrower.

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-four million Dollars ($24,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

(ii)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. Section 2.06. Interest and 
other charges shall be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 

limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause the Hokimiyat of Tashkent to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Hokimiyat of Tashkent therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Hokimiyat of Tashkent to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds 

of the Loan to the Hokimiyat of Tashkent under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Hokimiyat of Tashkent under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following: 

Hokimiyat 
installments over 
three years; 

(i)

the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by the 

of Tashkent in Sum to the Borrower in equal semi-annual 
twelve years, including a grace period of 

Subsidiary Loan at 

a rate equal to 12.5%; and

(ii)

interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 

(3/4 of 1%) 
withdrawn from 

time to time. 

(iii) A commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent 

per annum on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not 

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Hokimiyat of Tashkent pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.

Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 

the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan. 

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

receipts and 

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
audited, in accordance 
consistently applied, by independent 
Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 

with appropriate auditing principles 

auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
of such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

(6) months after the end of each such year the report 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

and 
to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

request.

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

The Hokimiyat of Tashkent or Spetstrans shall have failed to perform any 

of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Hokimiyat of Tashkent or Spetstrans will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.

(c)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 

Loan or any 
of the Project 
terminated in whole or in part, 
agreement providing therefor, or 

(A)

the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 

grant or loan  made to the Borrower for the financing 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or 

pursuant to the terms of the 

agreed 

maturity thereof.

(B)

any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

establishes 
cancellation, 
the failure of the Borrower to 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement;

termination or prematuring is not caused by 
perform any of its obligations 

for the Project are 

conditions 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 

(a)

shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 

(b)

the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.  

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 

(a)

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 

and the Hokimiyat of Tashkent; and 

(b)

the EBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 

conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 

(a)

that Spetstrans is a legal entity organized and existing under the laws 
of the Borrower pursuant to its Charter and is empowered and authorized to enter into 
the Project Agreement and to lawfully perform its obligations and to carry out the 
activities contemplated thereunder in accordance therewith; 

(b)

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by the Hokimiyat of 

Tashkent and Spetstrans, and is legally binding upon the Hokimiyat of Tashkent  and 
Spetstrans in accordance with its terms; and 

(c)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by, and is 
legally binding upon, the Borrower and the Hokimiyat of Tashkent in accordance with 
its terms. 

Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Mustakillik Square 5
Tashkent 700078
Republic of Uzbekistan

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

By /s/ Bakhtier Hamidov 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/  David Pearce 

Acting Regional Vice President 

Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

    Dollar Equivalent)

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

(1)

Turnkey contract for
transfer stations under
Part A of the Project

   5,000,000

100% of foreign

(2)

Equipment and waste
collection vehicles

  16,600,000

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally

(3)

Unallocated

TOTAL

   2,400,000

  24,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not exceeding 
$300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restore Tashkent’s municipal solid 

waste management (MSWM) collection and disposal system to a satisfactory level of 
service; and (b) improve the technical, financial and institutional basis for its 
future operation and development.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

PART A:

INVESTMENT COMPONENT

(1)

Collection Infrastructure. 

Provision of a variety of collection bin types, sufficient to re-equip the 

current MSWM system for service in all sectors, including: (a) 750 liter metal 
collection bins suitable for both side and rear loading vehicles and a portion of them 
having wheels for transfer from resident to street collection points; (b) a quantity 
of smaller plastic or metal residential bins (100-liter and 240-liter) for individual 
residences; (c) dedicated commercial/industrial service metal bins in two sizes 
(1100-litre, 10,000-litre); and (d) prefabricated concrete slabs for collection 
points.

(2)

Waste Collection Vehicles and Support Equipment. 

Provision of: (a) a fleet of up to 250 waste collection and support vehicles 

(primarily 3-ton rear and side loading compactors and 5-ton dump trucks suitable for 
service within the city and hauling to transfer stations); (b) about twenty 10-ton 
roll-off type container trucks to allow more efficient service to the heavy commercial 
and industrial sectors, as well as direct haulage to the landfill; and (c) about 
twenty vacuum trucks, service vehicles, bin washing vehicles, and tractors, including 
spares for 100 existing trucks and the new vehicles. 

Upgrading of the four existing district service centers and the development of a 

central repair workshop for major repairs.

(3)

Vehicle Park Development. 

(4)

Landfill Modernization. 

Upgrading of: (a) Tashkent’s Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill long term disposal 
facility, including the addition of new operating equipment in the form of bulldozers, 
landfill compactors, and excavators, as well as support equipment for maintenance and 
personnel transport; and (b) the infrastructure with site maintenance shops, access 
and utility upgrading, environmental monitoring capacity and service building, 
including allowance for progressive closure of presently utilized areas and opening of 
new areas. 

(5)

Landfill Closure. 

Provision of equipment and civil works required to effect an environmentally 
sound closure at Tashkent’s Zangiata and Xansanbay landfills, as well as long term 
environmental monitoring capacity. 

(6)

Transfer Stations/Transfer Vehicles. 

Supply and erection of four waste transfer stations in Tashkent each handling 
residential, commercial and institutional waste designated for consolidation and for 
transshipment to Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill. 

(7)

Biomedical Waste Facilities. 

Development of an interim capacity to manage biomedical waste co-disposed with 

other wastes at landfills and provision of dedicated vehicles and containers such that 
this waste can be collected from generation sites separately from other wastes and 
disposed of in a segregated cell to be developed at Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill.

PART B:

INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPONENT 

(1)

Project Management Support. 

Establishment and operation of a Municipal Project Implementation Unit within 

the Hokimiyat of Tashkent and provision of support to the MPIU and the CPIU to 
supervise project implementation, including the furnishing of computer and office 
equipment, office improvements, CPIU and MPIU staff costs, and implementation support 
respecting procurement and disbursement. 

(2)

Strategic Plan and Tariff Study.  

Preparation of a strategic medium and long term plan for the development and 

design of a structure for the municipal solid waste management services, including a 
tariff study to assist the Hokimiyat of Tashkent to develop a tariff policy required 
for an efficient solid waste management system. 

(3)

Institutional Strengthening. 

Provision of planning and technical assistance for strengthening the operational 

and financial management capacity and efficiency of Spetstrans and facilitating its 
commercialization and ultimate privatization, development and implementation of a 
modern financial management system, and provision of necessary support equipment and 
training therefor, including training related to collection operations, landfill 
operation and closure and design of future landfill expansion.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal 
(expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

February 15, 2004
August 15, 2004
February 15, 2005
August 15, 2005
February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009

505,000 
520,000 
535,000 
555,000 
570,000 
585,000 
605,000 
620,000 
640,000 
660,000 
680,000 
700,000 

February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
February 15, 2018
August 15, 2018

720,000 
740,000 
765,000 
785,000 
810,000 
835,000 
860,000 
885,000 
910,000 
935,000 
965,000 
995,000 
     1,025,000 
     1,055,000 
     1,085,000 
     1,120,000 
     1,150,000 
     1,185,000

_____________________________ 

*
as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

SCHEDULE 4 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 

the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods required for  the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000  

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,000,000. 

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.  

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

furnish to 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 

the General Conditions.

