CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3256 COB

(National Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project)

THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

Loan Agreement

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 29, 1990

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3256 COB

AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1990, between THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 

(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Borrower intends to receive from the United Nations Development 

Program (UNDP) two grants (the UNDP Grants) in a total amount of nine hundred thousand 
dollars ($900,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in two agreements (the UNDP Grant Agreements) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and UNDP;

(C)

the Borrower intends to contract from the European Development Fund 

(EDF), a loan (the EDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to approximately five hundred 
thousand dollars ($500,000)
to assist in financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in the loan 
agreement (the EDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF; 
and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 

Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;

"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 

granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 25, 
1987 and April 17, 1987 and July 14, 1988 and September 23, 1988 between the Borrower 
and L the Bank;

(d)

"MJDR" means the Ministere de la Jeunesse et du Developpement Rural of 

(e)

"MESS" means the Ministere de l’Enseignement Secondaire et Superieur, 

charge de la Recherche Scientifique of the Borrower;

(f)

"DEP" means Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, a directorate 

(a)
this Agreement;

 

(b)

(c)

the Borrower;

within MJDR;

(g)

"DRDFV" means the Direction de la Recherche, du Developpement, de la 

Formation et de la Vulgarisation, a directorate within MJDR;

(h)

"DRDR" means Direction Regionale du Developpement Rural, a directorate of 

MJDR at the regional level;

(i)

"NAERCC" means the National Agricultural Extension and Research 

Coordinating Committee referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

(j)

"Project Area" means all the districts of the Borrower with the exception 

of the following districts: Kakamoeka, Madingou-Kayes, Mayoko, Bambama, Boko, 
Djambala, Mayama, N’goma
Tse-Tse, Loukolela, Makoua, Mossaka, M’bomo, Sembe, Souake and Mokeko and of the zones 
which are not accessible by land in the districts of Impfondo, Dongou and Epena; and

(k)

"PSC" means the ProJect Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.02 

(a) (ii) of this Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to fifteen million eight hundred thousand 
dollars ($15,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement for expenditures 
made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 

goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,l open and maintain 

in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c)

Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph A of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
pay interest accrued on the 

Period, calculated 

notify the 

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 

such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

"(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 

and December 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MJDR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.

(b)

Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of paragraph (a) 

above with regard to the provision of funds, the Borrower shall:

account (the 
conditions satisfactory to 
 

every calendar 
required to restore the 
one hundred million CFAF (CFAF 
 

(i)

open and thereafter maintain in CFAF and in the name of DRDFV an 
Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 

the Bank; and

(ii)

thereafter deposit into the Project Account on the first day of 
quarter commencing on January 1, 1991, the amount 

account balance to its initial level of 

100,000,000);

(c)

Amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to paragraph (b) 

above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.

Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 

Borrower shall:

(a)

establish and thereafter maintain: (i) NAERCC; and (ii) PSC, both with 

membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b)

establish and thereafter maintain within DRDFV a service to be 

responsible for rural promotion operations with qualified staff satisfactory to the 
Bank and in adequate numbers.

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project: (a) 
employ and maintain in service the head of DRDFV, line managers, agricultural research 
specialists and extension specialists, all with qualifications and experience and in 
adequate numbers satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) appoint regional enumerators and 
five rural promotion subject matter specialists and ensure that they all take up their 
field positions no later than June 30, l991.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain in the name of DRDFV an account 
(the Motorbikes Revolving Fund, hereinafter referred to as MRF) in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure that the proceeds from 
the repayment of loans extended to extension staff for acquisition of motorbikes are 
deposited in MRF; and (c) ensure that the funds deposited in MRF shall be used only 
for the purpose of extending loans to extension staff for the acquisition of new 
motorbikes.

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:

prepare all reports as the Bank shall reasonably request for a mid-term 
review to be held with the Bank by December 31, 1992 to review the progress achieved 

(a)

in the execution of the Project; and

(b)

ensure that each year, DRDFV shall: (i) prepare Project related work 

programs and budgets; (ii) submit them no later than June 30 of each year to the Bank 
for its review and approval; and (iii) execute said work programs as agreed upon with 
the Bank.

Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

(b)

Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section 
and subject to the provisions of said paragraph, the Borrower shall employ specialized 
consulting firms or agencies, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist it in the hiring and 
monitoring of consultants and experts for the Project.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section 
fiscal year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

(including those for the Special Account) for each 
accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

later than four 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
 

records and 
time to time reasonably 
 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bar.k such other information concerning said 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 
 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that:

(a)

Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section: (i) the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or (ii) any such loan shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

(b)

Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)
been established;

the NAERCC and PSC referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement have 

(b)

the Project Account has been opened and an amount of one hundred million 

CFAF (CFAF 100,000,000) has been deposited therein;

 

(c)

(d)

the two UNDP Grant Agreements have been signed; and

Agreement has been established and its manager has been appointed.

the rural promotion service referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this 

Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 

as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministere des Finances et du Budget
B.P. 2090
Brazzaville
The People’s Republic of the Congo

 

Cable address:

Telex:

MINI FINANCES
Brazzaville
The People’s Republic
   of the Congo

5294 KG

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

197688 (TRT)
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

By /s/ Roger Issomlo

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox

Regional Vice President
Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)      Civil works           1,000,000               90%

(2)      Vehicles and          3,500,000               100%
         equipment

(3)      Consultants’          2,300,000               100%
         services

(4)      Training               800,000                100%

(5)      Research               600,000                100%
         activities

(6)      Equipment,             600,000                100%
         materials and
         inputs for
         Part F of the
         Project

(7)      Operating costs       3,900,000               80% until
                                                       December 31,
                                                       1992 55%
                                                       until
                                                       December 31,
                                                       1994 and 30%
                                                       thereafter

(8) Refunding of               1,500,000        
    Project Prepara-                            
    tion Advances                               

Amount due pur-
suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement

    (9)  Unallocated           1,600,000

                              __________

         TOTAL                15,800 000
                              ==========

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

"operating costs" means expenditures in respect of items such as fuel, 

lubricants, vehicle maintenance costs, expenses for travel related to the Project and 
travel and subsistence allowances for extension staff; and

(b)

"research activities" means expenditures incurred to carry out research 

support activities such as testing of the applicability of new technologies in the 
Project Area.

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to increase the Borrower’s agricultural 
production and to increase the income of smallholder farmers through delivery of 
improved extension services and
development of adaptive research activities and dissemination of their results.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Management of Agricultural Extension Services

Part A:
 
(l)
of said services throughout the Project Area.

Reorganization and strengthening of extension services in MJDR and improvement 

Strengthening of DRDFV through: (a) establishment of a monitoring and evaluation 
(2)
service; (b) improvement of DRDFV’s technical, administrative and financial management 
capability and of its capability to carry out extension and adaptive research 
operations; and (c) refurbishing and equipping of office space.

Development of Adaptive Research Activities

Part B:
 
(1)
Formulation and execution of an adaptive research program, with the active 
participation of local farmers, aimed at adapting general applied research findings to 
the specific conditions (agro-ecological/social environment) prevailing in the Project 
Area.

(2)
support centers; and (b) construction and equipping of seven new ones.

(a) Completion of ongoing construction and equipping of five existing technical 

Training

Part C:
 
(1)
the Training and Visit System.

(2)
techniques.

Training to familiarize senior MJDR staff with the new extension methodology of 

Training of trainers and field agents in effective pedagogical and communication 

(a)

(3)
specialists and workshops for senior staff to upgrade knowledge in Project-related 
topics such as management principles, accounting, and media communication;

Periodic training sessions for extension agents and subject matter 

(b)

full understanding of progress achieved under the adaptive research 

program; and (c) periodic workshops to introduce Project staff to specialized subject 
matters such as soil and
moisture conservation, plant protection and new farming techniques.

Fellowships: (a) for study tours to acquaint relevant Project staff with new 

(4)
extension and adaptive research programs currently ongoing in other countries; and (b) 
for short-term training abroad to upgrade managerial, technical and communication 
skills.

(5)
research activities.

Acquisition and printing of training/teaching materials related to extension and 

Strengthening of Planning Capability

Part D:
 
(1)
necessary for an adequate planning and programming of rural development operations, 
and for monitoring and evaluating their execution.

Reinforcement of DEP’s capability to carry out economic sectorial analysis 

Analysis and processing of sectorial data and establishment of an appropriate 

(2)
data base.

Part E:
 

Part F:
 

Rural Promotion Activities

Formulation of a methodology and execution of programs to promote rural 

development activities and, in particular, productive activities by women and the 
youth.

Promotion of Small Ruminants Husbandry and Fish Farming

Execution of programs to: (a) increase the productivity of small ruminants at 
the Inoni Falaise Center and the Madingou and Makoua sub-stations; and (b) intensify 
fish farming activities at the Farming Station of Djoumouna and the sub-station of 
Ewo.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

*  *  *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

Date Payment Due

(expressed in dollars)*

 
      June 1, 1996                              
      December 1, 1996                          
      June 1, 1997                              
      December 1, 1997                          
      June 1, 1998                              
      December 1, 1998                          
      June 1, 1999                              
      December 1, l999                          
      June 1, 2000                              
      December 1, 2000                          
      June l, 2001                              
      December 1, 2001                          
      June l, 2002                              
      December 1, 2002                          
      June 1, 2003                              
      December 1, 2003                          
      June 1, 2004                              
      December 1, 2004                          
      June 1, 2005                              
      December 1, 2005                          
      June 1, 2006                              
      December 1, 2006                          
      June 1, 2007                              
      December 1, 2007                          
      June 1, 2008                              
      December l, 2008                          
      June l, 2009                              
      December l, 2009                          
      June 1, 2010                              
      December 1, 2010                          
 
______________________

290,000
300,000
310,000
320,000
335,000
350,000
360,000
375,000
390,000
405,000
420,000
435,000
455,000
470,000
490,000
510,000
530,000
550,000
570,000
590,000
615,000
640,000
665,000
690,000
715,000
745,000
775,000
805,000
835,000
860,000

*
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3 04 (b) of the 

General Conditions:

 

Time of Prepayment

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

Not more than three years                       

0.15

before maturity

More than three years but                       

0.30

More than six years but                         

0.55

not more than six years
before maturity

not more than 11 years
before maturity

more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      

0.80

More than 16 years but not                      

0.90

more than 18 years
before maturity

maturity

More than 18 years before                       

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Procurement of Goods and Works

International Competitive Bidding

Section I.
 
Part A:
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
1.
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.

To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles shall be grouped in bid 

Other Procurement Procedures

Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the 

Part B:
 
l.
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000 
equivalent, and works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank, provided that foreign companies shall not
be required to be incorporated in Congo in order to participate in the bidding.

2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations invited from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines.

Part C:
 
1.
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a)

With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 

or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix l to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 

contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.
to the Guidelines.

The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 

employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it l :hat the Special 

3.
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 

Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawaL or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 6

Project Implementation Program

1.
Up to December 31, 1992, extension services shall be provided only in the 
following districts: Hinda, Louvakou, Moutamba, Mouyondzi, Madingou, Lekana, Mindouli, 
Owando, Oyo, Kibangou,
Zanaga, Gamboma, Kinkala and Ngabe. 

2.
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank during the mid-term review.

The timing for provision of extension services in the remaining districts shall 

3.
satisfactory to the Bank.

DRDFV Staff shall be relocated no later than June 30, l991 in office facilities 

