CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4433 HR

(Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated January 20, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4433 HR 

AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

Whereas (A) the Bank has received a letter of development policy dated December 

4, 1998, from the Borrower describing a program (the Program) designed to modernize 
and restructure Hrvatske Zeljeznice, the railway authority of the Borrower (HZ), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the execution thereof;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by HZ with the Borrower’s assistance and, 

as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to HZ, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and

(C)

in order to assist in the financing of the Project, HZ intends to obtain 

from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the European Bank) a loan 
(the European Bank Loan) in an amount of about $35,000,000 equivalent under an 
agreement (the European Bank Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the European Bank;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and HZ (the 
Project Agreement);

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Business Plan” means the annual plan to be prepared by HZ in accordance 

with the Railways Law referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section;

(b)

“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means a subdivision of the Euro (as 

hereinafter defined), the national currency unit of the Federal Republic of Germany;

(c)

“Euro” and “EUR” each means the lawful currency of the member states of 

the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union;

(d)

“Railways Law” means the Borrower’s Railways Law Number 341-01, enacted 

in June 1994, as amended;

(e)

“Restructuring Unit” means the unit established by HZ to supervise and 

monitor the implementation of the Project and of other measures included in the 
Program;

(f)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

this Agreement, and

(g)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and HZ pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to 
eighty-five million four hundred thousand Euro (EUR 85,400,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.

(b) 

The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project open and maintain in 

Deutsche Mark a separate deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%)  of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the effective date, the 

Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank offered 
first day of such Interest 
Interest Period, for value the Interest 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
annum.

Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Payment Date occurring on 
Period), as 

rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value the 

per 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each interest Period: (A) three 

fourths of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to said Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to said Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause HZ to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of HZ therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 

services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HZ to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.

(b)

Without limitation to the generality of the Borrower’s obligation under 

paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to 
ensure timely implementation by the ministries and other agencies of the Borrower of 
actions required on their part towards (i) the carrying out of measures included in 
the Program, and (ii) the preparation of the Business Plan in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to HZ (the Subsidiary 

Loan) under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
HZ, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including 
the obligation of HZ:

in Deutsche 

Mark;

(i)

to make debt service payments under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 

outstanding 
amortization of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 

(ii)

to repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
over the same period and on the same dates specified for the 

the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 

and

(iii) to pay on the dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement: 

commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the 

specified in Section 2.05 of this 

(A) a 
Subsidiary Loan at the rate 
Agreement, minus any waiver thereof as may 
time by the Bank; and (B) interest on the amount of 
withdrawn and outstanding at an annual rate determined in 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

be determined from time to 
the Subsidiary Loan 

accordance 

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by HZ 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
such expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
audited, in accordance 
consistently applied, by independent 
Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 

with appropriate auditing principles 

auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
of such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

(6) months after the end of each such year the report 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

and 
to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

request.

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Agreement.

HZ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

(b)

A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 

Program or a significant part thereof shall be carried out.

(c)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HZ will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(d)

The Railways Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of HZ to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(e)

The European Bank Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 

September 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree.

(f)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
withdraw the proceeds of the European Bank Loan shall have 

HZ to 
been suspended, 
pursuant to the terms of the 
(B) such Loan shall have become due and 
agreed maturity thereof.

canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 

European Bank Loan Agreement, or 

payable prior to the 

establishes 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

cancellation, 
the failure of HZ to perform any 
and (B) adequate funds for the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.

termination or prematuring is not caused by 

of its obligations under such agreement; 
Project are available to the 

conditions 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

(b)
shall occur; and

the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (ii) of that Section. 

(c)

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 

and HZ;

(b)

HZ, in conjunction with relevant authorities of the Borrower, has 

prepared a Business Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the years 1999 and 2003; and

(c)

the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence demonstrating, to the 

satisfaction of the Bank, implementation of measures required hitherto under the 
Program.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HZ, 

and is legally binding upon HZ in accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and HZ and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HZ in accordance 
with its terms;

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Katanèiæeva 5

41000 Zagreb
Croatia

Telex:

862-21215
862-28133

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

By /s/ Miomir Zuzul 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 

Acting Regional Vice President 

Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

Goods for:

(1)

of 

(a) Track renewal
    and maintenance

(b) Traction units
    rehabilitation

  Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
   (Expressed in
  Euro Equivalent) 

17,730,000

16,890,000

     % of
 Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 

local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost),
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

(c) Freight wagon
    conversion

(d) Passenger coaches
    rehabilitation

(e) Environmental 
    protection

Payments
for Labor re-
structuring under
the Business Plan

 2,530,000

 7,600,000

 1,350,000

(2)

28,200,000

43%

(3)

Consultants’ services,
including auditing

 2,530,000

100%

(4)

Fee

   850,000

Amount due under
section 2.04 of
this Agreement

(5)

Unallocated

TOTAL

 7,720,000
__________

85,400,000
==========

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of EUR 8,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after September 1, 1998; and (b) payments for labor restructuring 
under said Category (2) unless such payments are included in the Action Plan referred 
to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for (a) payments under Category (2) of the table shown in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule; (b) contracts for goods costing the equivalent of up to 
$400,000 each; and (c) contracts for services by individual consultants costing the 
equivalent of up to $50,000 each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) the 

implementation of restructuring measures included in the Program; and (b) the carrying 
out of high priority investments required to optimize the HZ’s operations and improve 
its financial position.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Physical Investments 

(1)

Renewal of about 220 km of track, including provision of maintenance equipment. 

(2)
10 electric) and of 6 electric multiple units, and the provision of spare parts. 

Rehabilitation of about 40 locomotives, (consisting of 30 diesel main lines and 

(3)

(4)

Rehabilitation of about 120 coaches. 

Conversion of about 100 freight wagons.

Implementation of environmental protection measures, including the supply of 

(5)
necessary equipment, for the purpose of: (a) mitigating any adverse environmental 
impact of investment activities  under the Project; and (b) bringing selected 
facilities of HZ, such as water collection and treatment and supply of oil foil, up to 
required environmental standards.

Part B:

Institutional Measures

Implementation, as defined in the Program and in accordance with the 

time-schedule stated therein, of: 

(1)

measures for restructuring of HZ’s labor force, 

measures for commercialization of the activities of HZ, including gradual 

(2)
reduction of non-economic services of HZ and preparation of annual Business Plans 
incorporating HZ’s strategy and development programs, and 

(3)
measures for clarification of the financial links between HZ and its 
subsidiaries and for restructuring and gradual privatization of such subsidiaries, 

(4)
revaluation and streamlining of HZ’s assets, and 

financial reform measures, including auditing, adjustments of rail tariffs and 

(5)

measures for control and monitoring of revenues and expenses.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

On each March 15 and September 15

Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 

              Euro)*

Beginning September 15, 2004
through  March 15, 2014

       4,270,000
       4,270,000

SCHEDULE 4 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3), set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 

DEM 8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 

Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

