CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4227 PH

Loan Agreement

(Water Districts Development Project)

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May 15, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4227 PH 

AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

(B)

Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Metropolitan Waterworks 

and Sewerage System (MWSS), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will relend the proceeds of the Loan to MWSS, as provided in 
this Agreement; 

(C)

the Borrower has requested additional financial assistance toward 

financing Part B of the Project which will be carried out by Land Bank of the 
Philippines (LBP), and the Bank is agreeing to extend a loan of fifty four million 
five hundred thousand dollars ($36,300,000) to LBP (the LBP Loan) pursuant to a loan 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and LBP (the LBP Loan Agreement);

(D)

under a guarantee agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 

and the Bank (Guarantee Agreement), the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of LBP in respect of the LBP Loan and to undertake such other obligations 
as set forth in such guarantee agreement; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:

“Section 6.03 is modified to read: Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If 

the Loan, or (c) at any 

time, the Bank determines, after consultation 

right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 

(a) the 
shall have been suspended  with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan  will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged  in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate  action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of 
otherwise have been eligible for 
(d) at any time, the Bank determines that the  procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of 
shall have received 
respect to an amount of the Loan, 
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
shall be cancelled.” 

the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 

notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 

expenditures in respect of such contract which would 

with the procedures set 
amount of 

financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 

the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 

Borrower to make withdrawals with 

such amount of the Loan 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement, the LBP Loan Agreement and 
the Guarantee Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings: 

(a)

“Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System” and “MWSS” mean the agency 

of the Borrower established under Republic Act 6243, responsible for developing, 
operating and maintaining water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems in and around 
Metro Manila, and any successor thereto; 

(b)

“MWSS Subsidiary Loan” means the loan made or proposed to be made by the 

Borrower to MWSS out of the proceeds of the Loan, under the provisions of the MWSS 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 

(c)

“MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and MWSS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

(d)

“PPA” means the public performance audit system to be developed by MWSS 

under Part A of the Project, to measure the performance of the concessionaires for its 
water and sewerage services; 

(e)

“PPA Project Management Unit” means the entity to be established and 

maintained by MWSS in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 

(f)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and MWSS of even 

date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms includes 

all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and  

(g)
this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
million three hundred thousand dollars ($2,300,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 

maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically 
authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date. 

of this 

Agreement. 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 

15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause MWSS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of MWSS therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable MWSS to perform such obligations; and 
(iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall, in respect of Part A of the Project, relend the 

proceeds of the Loan to MWSS, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the 
Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which 
shall include the following: 

(i)
denominated and 

the principal amount of the MWSS Subsidiary Loan shall be 

repayable in dollars; 

years, 
years; 

(ii)

the MWSS Subsidiary Loan shall be made for a period of twenty (20) 

including a grace period not to exceed five (5) 

Subsidiary Loan 
rate of 1% above the rate 
2.05 of this Agreement; 

(iii) MWSS shall pay interest on the principal amount of the MWSS 

withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the 

applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 

MWSS 
equal to the rate 
this Agreement. 

(iv)

MWSS shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 

Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of 

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the MWSS Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MWSS Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 

maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out by MWSS pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement. 

Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than December 31, 2000 a 
report on (i) the results of the application of the PPA until such date, and (ii) the 
potential expansion of the PPA to water and sewerage services outside of the 
jurisdiction of MWSS.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 

accounting 
expenditures; 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and 

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representative to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall: 

this Section 
audited, in accordance 
consistently applied, by independent 
Bank; 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 

with appropriate auditing principles 

auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
of such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and 

(6) months after the end of each such year the report 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

accounts and 
reasonably request. 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records and 

the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

MWSS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

Project Agreement. 

(a)

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have risen which shall make it improbable 
that MWSS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 

(c)

The legislation establishing MWSS shall have been amended, suspended, 

abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
MWSS to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MWSS or for the suspension of 
its operations.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 

(b)

any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 

5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination 

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and MWSS.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, that:  

(a)

the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by MWSS, and 

is legally binding upon MWSS in accordance with its terms; and 

(b)

the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by the Borrower and MWSS respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
MWSS in accordance with its terms. 

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines

Telex:

40268 CB-CONF

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines,  as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

By /s/ Joel Bañares 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Aloysius Ordu 

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Authorized Representative

The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to such Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
  Dollars)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

2,300,000

100%

Category

(1)

Consultants’ services
under Part A of
the Project

TOTAL

_________

2,300,000

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

2.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for consultants’ services under 
contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Republic of the Philippines in: 
(i) creating an institutional environment which would encourage the participation of 
the private sector in water utilities; and (ii) supporting the Participating LGUs in 
improving sewerage, sanitation and drainage services within the areas of their 
jurisdiction.

The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Public Performance Audit

Development and piloting of a public performance audit system to measure the 

performance of concessionaires for water and sewerage services, through the provision 
of technical assistance.

Part B:

Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Services

Improvement in the water, sewerage, sanitation and drainage services in 

1.
Participating LGUs through the construction of: (i) water, sewerage and drainage 
systems in barangays, (ii) on-site and communal sanitation facilities for residents of 
such LGUs, (iii) a sewerage system consisting of house connections, feeder and trunk 
sewers; (iv) a sewage treatment plant; and (v) drainage facilities. 

2.
Strengthening the capability of the Project Management Office to support the 
Participating LGUs in the design of their respective Sub-projects and to manage the 
overall implementation of the Project, through the provision of consultants’ services. 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.

********* 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule

 Payment of Principal 
(expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

March 15, 2003
September 15, 2003
March 15, 2004
September 15, 2004
March 15, 2005
September 15, 2005
March 15, 2006
September 15, 2006
March 15, 2007
September 15, 2007
March 15, 2008
September 15, 2008
March 15, 2009
September 15, 2009
March 15. 2010
September 15, 2010
March 15, 2011
September 15, 2011
March 15, 2012
September 15, 2012
March 15, 2013
September 15, 2013
March 15, 2014
September 15, 2014
March 15, 2015
September 15, 2015
March 15, 2016
September 15, 2016
March 15, 2017
September 15, 2017

50,000.00 
50,000.00 
50,000.00 
55,000.00 
55,000.00 
55,000.00 
60,000.00 
60,000.00 
60,000.00 
65,000.00 
65,000.00 
65,000.00 
70,000.00 
70,000.00 
75,000.00 
75,000.00 
80,000.00 
80,000.00 
80,000.00 
85,000.00 
85,000.00 
90,000.00 
95,000.00 
95,000.00 
      100,000.00 
      100,000.00 
      105,000.00 
      105,000.00 
      110,000.00 
      110,000.00

_____________________________

*

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 

as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 

paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part A of the Project; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of services required for Part A the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 

evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 

(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part A 
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

