CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4452 MA

Loan Agreement

(Social Sector Support Project)

between

MALAYSIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 31, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4452 MA 

AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1999, between MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  

(B)

the Borrower intends to contract from United Nations Development Program 

(UNDP) a grant in an amount equivalent to one million Dollars (the UNDP Grant) to 
assist in the financing of Part D.1 of the Project, on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP (the UNDP 
Project Document); and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 

through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the 

Project, has or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected.

(b)

“EPU” means the Economic Planning Unit of the Borrower’s Prime Minister’s 

Department, and any successor thereto.

(c)

“Guidelines for Land Acquisition and Resettlement” means the framework 

prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with 
the Bank.  

(d)

“Hard Core Poor” means households with an income level below fifty 

percent of the Poverty Line.  

(e)

“MNUSD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of National Unity and Social 

Development, and any successor thereto.

(f)

(g)

(i)

(j)

“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, and any successor thereto.

successor thereto. 

“MORD” means that Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Development, and any 

(h)

“National Economic Recovery Plan” means the July 21, 1998 comprehensive 

framework for economic recovery issued by the Borrower’s National Economic Action 
Council.

“Poor” means households with an income level below the Poverty Line.

“Poverty Districts” means the sixty-six districts specified in MORD’s 

December 1998 list of poorest districts in the Borrower’s territory; and “Poverty 
District” means any of the Poverty Districts.

(k)

“Poverty Line” means the equivalent of two international dollars at 1985 

prices, or such other amount as may be determined by the Borrower from time to time.

(l)

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 

Section 4.02 of this Agreement.

(m)

“Project Ministries” means, collectively, the MNUSD, MOH and MORD; and 

“Project Ministry” means any of the Project Ministries.  

(n)
this Agreement. 

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million Dollars ($60,000,000). 

Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 

Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan. 

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 

Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 

one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 

and December 15 in each year. Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Part A of the Project through MORD; 
(ii) Part B of the Project through MOH; (iii) Part C of the Project through MNUSD; 
(iv) Part D.1 of the Project through EPU and the Project Ministries; and (v) Part D.2 
of the Project through EPU, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, environmental, financial, health and technical practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 

including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall: 

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 

(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 

paragraph 
Special Account for 
auditing standards acceptable to 
independent auditors acceptable to the 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 

the Bank, consistently applied, by 

Bank; 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 

later than six 
certified copies of the 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 

financial statements referred to in 

year as so audited, and 

accounts and 
detail 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 

and 
auditors, as the Bank may 

accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 

from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statement of expenditures, the Borrower shall: 

(a) of this 
expenditures; 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures; 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
July 1, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:

(i) 

(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 

Project, both 
report, and projected sources 
Project for the six-month period following 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
and applications of funds for the 

the period covered by said 
financed out of the 
report 

Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 

cumulatively 

and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 

(ii)

(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 

variances between 
targets; and

the actual and previously forecast implementation 

(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 

expenditures under 
as at the end of the 

contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 

period covered by said report. 

(b)

Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

The UNDP Project Document shall have failed to become effective by 

September 1, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for Part D.1 of the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 

(b)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 

withdraw the proceeds of  the UNDP Grant shall have been 

or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 

Borrower to 
suspended, canceled 
the terms of the UNDP Project 

Document, or

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

establishes 
cancellation or 
the Borrower to perform any of its 
and (B) adequate funds for Part D.1 of the 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.

termination is not caused by the failure of 

obligations under such agreement; 

Project are available to 
conditions 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

shall occur. 

(b)

The event specified in paragraph (b)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 

(a)

The Borrower shall have appointed, in accordance with paragraph 1 of 

Schedule 5 to this Agreement, a person in each of the Project Ministries to be 
responsible for Project accounting functions. 

(b)

The Borrower’s Accountant General shall have issued procedural and 

management guidelines for the Special Account, satisfactory to the Bank, and which 
guidelines shall have been adopted by the Project Ministries. 

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Secretary General to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance of the 
Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia

Cable address:

Treasury 
Kuala Lumpur

For the Bank:

Telex:

MA 30242 or
MA 32369

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

MALAYSIA 

By /s/ Dato’ GHAZZALI Sheikh Abdul Khalid 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

(c)

Consultants’
services

 15,000,000

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
   Dollars)

   7,000,000

   6,000,000

 10,000,000

  5,000,000

Category

(1)

For Part A of the
Project:

(a)

(b)

Works

Goods

of

(ex-

70%

expenditures

procured

(2)

For Part B of the
Project:

(a)

(b)

Works

Goods

of

(ex-

70%

expenditures

procured

of

(ex-

70%

expenditures

procured

(3)

For Part C of the
Project:

(a)

(b)

Works

Goods

  7,000,000

  1,000,000

(c)

Consultants’
services

(4)

Fee

  3,500,000

    600,000

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

50%

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 

local expenditures 

factory cost) and 

of local 

for other items 

locally

100%

50%

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 

local expenditures 

factory cost) and 

of local 

for other items 

locally

50%

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 

local expenditures 

factory cost) and 

of local 

for other items 

locally

100%

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this

(5)

Unallocated

  4,900,000

TOTAL

60,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

Agreement

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 1, 1999. 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 

goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 

(a)

(b)

(c)

consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms costing less 

than $100,000 equivalent each (excluding contracts with consulting firms procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 of Section II to Schedule 4); and 

(d)

consultants’ services under contracts with individual consultants costing 

less than $50,000 equivalent each,  all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in ameliorating the 

adverse impacts of the regional economic crisis, through: (a) implementation of the 
National Economic Recovery Plan strategy to ensure continued access of the Poor to 
essential social services, especially in the poorest districts; and (b) poverty 
monitoring and monitoring of the effectiveness of social programs in alleviating 
poverty and their impacts.  

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 

Part A.

Rural Development and Poverty Alleviation

1.
Promoting early childhood development of pre-school children in Poverty 
Districts by constructing and equipping about 400 education facilities and renovating 
and updating equipment in about 1,300 education facilities. 

Supporting the overall development of the Hard Core Poor through construction 

2.
and rehabilitation of community facilities (excluding religious facilities) and 
provision of vocational skills training, special tutoring and counseling in about 60 
villages in Poverty Districts. 

Part B.

Health Services 

1.

Expanding access to basic health care, particularly for vulnerable groups, such 

as mothers and children, through construction and equipping of about 31 rural 
community clinics and about 10 urban health clinics in areas without access to 
adequate health services. 

Part C.

Social Assistance for Disadvantaged groups 

Supporting ongoing welfare programs of MNUSD through: (a) refurbishment and 

1.
equipping of about 68 shelters for the elderly and orphans; (b) construction and 
equipping of about 150 new and refurbishing of about 500 existing kindergartens for 
the Poor; (c) construction of about 120 day care centers for the elderly; (d) 
construction and equipping of 7 women’s centers; and (e) provision of training for 
caregivers and teachers. 

Part D.

Poverty Monitoring and Impact Assessment 

Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to assess the social effects of crises and 

1.
the effectiveness of countervailing measures, through quantitative and qualitative 
monitoring of poverty and in-depth evaluation of poverty reduction programs.

2.
through an evaluation of its poverty monitoring and impact assessment capabilities.

Enhancing the Borrower’s ability to plan effective poverty reduction programs 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.

*        *       * 

SCHEDULE 3 

A.

General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 

(c)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 

Agreement. 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 

B.

Interest 

1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings: 

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollar for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 

Period, below 
other reference rates, for 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 

six-month deposits, in respect of the 

portions thereof allocated by the 

portions thereof made by 

Interest 

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 

(i)

three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 

Date for such 
interbank offered rates, or 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 

Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 

other reference rates, for 

outstanding 

loans 

Disbursed 
as a percentage per 

annum. 

(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 

Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 

4.
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment 

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
1.
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

2.
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCHEDULE 4 

Procurement 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 

2.
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 

The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 

(a)

Grouping of contracts 

To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 

estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 

(b)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods 

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 

(c)

Notification and Advertising 

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures  

1.

National Competitive Bidding 

(a)

Each contract for goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 

per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,330,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 

(b)

Each contract for works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per 

contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,010,000 equivalent, shall be 

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 

National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 

2.
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,090,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

3.

Direct Contracting

Goods that must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 

existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 

4.

Procurement of Small Works 

Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $23,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

1.

Procurement Planning 

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 

(a)

The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 

Guidelines shall apply with respect to the following contracts:

(i)

the first three contracts for works to be procured by each of the 

Ministries and estimated to cost the equivalent of 

(ii)

the first three contracts for goods to be procured by each of the 

Ministries and estimated to cost the equivalent of 

contract; and

contract.

2.

Prior Review

Project 
$100,000 or more per 

Project 
$100,000 or more per 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  

1.

Quality-based Selection

Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

2.

Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

3.

Single Source Selection

Services under Parts A and C of the Project, may, with the Bank's prior 

agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

4.

Individual Consultants

Services for under Parts A and C of the Project estimated to cost less than 

$50,000 equivalent per contract and that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Selection Planning 

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 

provisions of Part C.3 of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.

(c)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5 

Implementation Program 

Project Management

In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall 

1.
appoint in each of the Project Ministries, a person with appropriate experience to be 
responsible for accounting functions relating to Project implementation and, 
thereafter, maintain said persons throughout the period of Project implementation, 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

Monitoring and Reporting

2.

The Borrower shall: 

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 

the Bank an annual report, not later than March 30 in each year, beginning on March 
30, 2000, consisting of: 

(i)

a summary of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out 
pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of this Schedule 5 in respect of 

by it 
the preceding 
measures, indicated by said 
activities, to further the objectives of the 

calendar year and setting forth proposed 

monitoring and evaluation 
Project; and

implementation 
calendar year, and

(ii)

an annual action plan and proposed budget for Project 

activities to be carried out in the current 

(c)

by April 30 in each year, beginning on April 30, 2000, review with the 

Bank the report referred to in paragraph 2(b) of this Schedule 5 and promptly take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

Compensation for Affected Persons

3.

In carrying out the Project:

(a)

the Borrower shall take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of 

land or assets of persons and to avoid the displacement of said persons; 

(b)

where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is 

unavoidable under the Project, the Borrower shall, before carrying out Project 
activities which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to 
such persons, compensation in accordance with the Guidelines for Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and

(c)

in the event that two hundred or more persons are adversely affected by 

said Project activities, the Borrower shall:

Land 
Bank for approval; 

and

(i)

prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 

Acquisition and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the 

all  
with the provisions 

of said plan.

(ii)

prior to the carrying out of said Project activities, ensure that 
Affected Persons shall have been compensated in accordance 

Part D of the Project

4.
to the Bank:

The Borrower shall carry out, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable 

(a)

a quantitative assessment to measure the social impact of the economic 

crisis and furnish a report on its findings to the Bank by September 30, 1999;

a national participatory qualitative assessment of the impact of the 
economic crisis and furnish a report on its findings to the Bank by March 30, 2000;

(b)

(c)

at least two Project beneficiary assessments to evaluate the impact of 

and value derived from Project activities and furnish a report on its findings to the 
Bank by December 31, 2000; and 

(d)

at least two in-depth impact evaluations to assess the effectiveness and 
cost of the Borrower’s poverty reduction programs and furnish a report on its findings 
to the Bank by September 30, 2001.

SCHEDULE 6 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $10,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

