CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4517 TU

(Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 23, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4517 TU

AGREEMENT, dated November 23, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing  of the Project; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 

(a)

“Agency Agreement” means any of the agreements, the standard form of 

which shall contain terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into 
between TCIP (as hereinafter defined) and companies duly licensed by GDI (as 
hereinafter defined) to carry on insurance business in the Republic of Turkey and who 
have satisfied the eligibility criteria established by TCIP, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for participation in the National Catastrophic Insurance Program (as hereinafter 
defined), and referred to in paragraph 3(f) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(b)

“Charter” means the founding laws, decrees, implementing regulations or 
other similar instruments of, or relating to, TCIP (as hereinafter defined), in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower, and such term 
includes the by-laws or other similar instruments to be adopted by TCIP.  

(c) 

“Covered Risks” means the risks specified in Part A.2 of the Project, as 

each of these risks will be defined in the Standard Form of Earthquake Insurance 
Policy (as hereinafter defined) and will be included in each Earthquake Insurance 
Policy (as hereinafter defined) and includes such other catastrophic risks as may be 
agreed upon by the Bank. 

(d)

“Development Law” means the Development Law of the Borrower, Law No. 3194 

dated May 3, 1985, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 

(e)

“Disaster Law” means the Law on the Precautions to be Taken and 

Assistance to be Provided Due to Disasters with Impact on Public Life of the Borrower, 
Law No.7269 dated May 15, 1959, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 

(f)

“Earthquake Insurance Holder” means a natural or a juridical person, who 

is the owner of an immovable property together with one or more private residential 
dwellings thereon situated within the Republic of Turkey, and whose name appears in 
respect of such property and dwelling(s) on the real estate tax assessment roll 
established and maintained by the relevant local authority, or whose obligation to pay 
real estate taxes is otherwise established in accordance with the laws of the Borrower 
and to whom an Earthquake Insurance Policy (as hereinafter defined) has been duly 
issued by TCIP (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 3(g) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, in consideration of the payment by 
such person to TCIP of the premium therefor established by TCIP from time to time. 

(g)

“Earthquake Insurance Policy” means any of the insurance policies, with 

terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to be issued by TCIP (as hereinafter 
defined) to Earthquake Insurance Holders pursuant to paragraph 3(g) of Schedule 6 of 
this Agreement.

(h)

“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6), 

set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

(i)

“Eligible Claim(s)” means any claim made by an Earthquake Insurance 

Holder to TCIP in accordance with the terms and conditions of an Earthquake Insurance 
Policy in respect of the replacement value of the relevant residential dwelling(s) and 
the contents thereof, damaged or destroyed as a direct result of the occurrence of a 
Covered Risk. 

(j)

“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria agreed by the Borrower and the 

Bank and set forth in the PIP (as hereinafter defined) for selection for financing 
from the proceeds of the Loan of investments under Parts B and C of the Project.  

(k)

“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 

services, Reinsurance Premiums (as hereinafter defined) and Eligible Claims under the 
National Catastrophic Insurance Program (as hereinafter defined) referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 

(l)

“EMAT” means the Emergency Management Agency of Turkey to be established 

under Part A.1 of the Project and pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this 

Agreement.

(m)

“Financial Management Agreement” means the agreement, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into by TCIP (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(j) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
regarding investment management services to be provided to TCIP in respect of its long 
term financial assets, which management shall be in accordance with the requirements 
therefor set forth in the Operations Manual (as hereinafter defined). 

(n)

“GDI” means the General Directorate of Insurance within the 

Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Borrower. 

(o)

“GDI-PIU” means the project implementation unit established within the 

GDI referred to paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 

(p)

“General Directorate of State Land” means the General Directorate of 

State Land under the Prime Minister’s Office of the Borrower. 

(q)

“Marmara Earthquake” means the earthquake which occurred on August 17, 

1999, and which affected the Project Areas (as hereinafter defined). 

(r)

“MERLIS Committee” means the Marmara Earthquake Region Land Information 

System Committee to be established under Part A.4 of the Project and in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(s)

“MPWS” means the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement of the Borrower. 

(t)

“National Catastrophic Insurance Program” means the national mandatory 

catastrophic insurance program to be established by the Borrower under Part A.2 of the 
Project. 

(u)

“Operations Manual” means the operations manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted by TCIP (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, which sets out the 
operating policies and procedures of TCIP. 

(v)

“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project  referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 

(w)

“PIU” means the project implementation unit established within the 

Housing Development Administration of the Borrower pursuant to Emergency Flood and 
Earthquake Recovery Project (Loan No. 4388 TU) and referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(x)

“Pool Management Agreement” means the agreement, with terms and 

conditions acceptable to the Bank, to be executed between TCIP (as hereinafter 
defined) and Milli Re pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(d) of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement for the administration and management of certain aspects of the 
business, operations and affairs of TCIP. 

(y)

“Project Areas” means areas affected by the Marmara Earthquake, namely 

Bolu, Sakarya, Kocaeli, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa and Eskisehir. 

(z)

“Project Implementation Agency” means a municipal body or an agency of 

the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of activities under the Project and the 
term “Project Implementation Agencies” means collectively, the Project Implementation 
Agencies.

(aa)

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 

Section 4.02 of this Agreement.

(bb)

“Protocol” means any protocol to be entered into between the PIU and a 
Project Implementation Agency pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Protocol.  

(cc)

“Reinsurance Premium(s)” means the premium(s) or interest due and payable 

by TCIP (as hereinafter defined) under a Reinsurance Transaction (as hereinafter 
defined).  

(dd)

“Reinsurance Transactions” means any of the risk transfer transactions, 

upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to be concluded by TCIP (as 
hereinafter defined) from time to time pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(e) of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement with one or more reinsurance companies, capital market 
investors or other third parties, satisfactory to the Bank, for the efficient transfer 
by TCIP to such third party(-ies) of part of the catastrophic insurance risk carried 
by TCIP under Earthquake Insurance Policies.  Without limiting the generality of the 
foregoing, such risk transfer transactions may include reinsurance contracts or 
treaties, as well as capital market transactions (including the issuance of 
insurance-linked securities) and the financing of insurance losses by means of the 
issuance of securities at conditions agreed in advance upon the occurrence of a 
previously defined event (so-called contingent capital transactions).

(ee)

“Risk Management Plan” means, as at any date, the plan, approved by the 

Bank, and to be prepared from time to time by or on behalf of TCIP (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
for the prudent management of the risk exposure carried by TCIP in the conduct of its 
business, operations and affairs.

(ff)
to this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 

(gg)

“Standard Form of Earthquake Insurance Policy” means the standard form of 

Earthquake Insurance Policy, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted by TCIP (as defined hereinafter) pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(a) 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, which will contain all of the standard terms and 
conditions relating to the provision by TCIP to an Earthquake Insurance Holder of 
earthquake risk insurance including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, 
the provision of cover for the replacement or repair of: (i) residential dwellings up 
to the equivalent in Turkish lira of twenty-five thousand Dollars ($25,000); and (ii) 
contents thereof up to the equivalent in Turkish lira of three thousand Dollars 
($3,000). 

(hh)

“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee for the Project to be 

established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.

(ii)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and TCIP pursuant to Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 

(jj)

“TCIP Legal Framework” means the laws, decrees, implementing regulations 

or other similar instruments, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, establishing the TCIP (as hereinafter defined) and governing the 
conditions of its administration and operation. 

(kk)

“Tender Law” means the Tender Law of the Borrower, Law No. 2886, dated 

September 8, 1983, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 

(ll)

“Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool” or “TCIP” means the legal entity to 

be established by the Borrower, pursuant to the Charter, for the purposes of 
implementing the National Catastrophic Insurance Program, and includes any successor 
or successors thereto acceptable to the Bank.

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

hundred five million Dollars ($505,000,000).

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  

(a) 

expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect 

of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A.1, A.2(b), 
A.3, A.4, B, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and 

(b)

 amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by TCIP 

for Reinsurance Premiums and Eligible Claims under Part A.2(a) of the Project. 

Section 2.03. (a) The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2005, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 

(b) 

Any amount of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 

Category (5) in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement which remains unwithdrawn in 
the Loan Account on the Closing Date may be withdrawn by the Borrower for the purposes 
of and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 

percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 

arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.09. TCIP is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of 
Part A.2 of the Project for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to 
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02(b) and Article V of the General 
Conditions.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 

shall carry out Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, B, C and D of the Project 

the Project Implementation Agencies with due 

(i)
through PIU and 
diligence and efficiency and in 
financial, administrative and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
and other resources required for Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, B, 
the Project; and 

conformity with appropriate engineering, 
environmental practices, and 

facilities, services 

C and D of 

(ii)
obligations under 
A.2 of the Project with due 
conformity with appropriate administrative, 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all 

without any limitation and restriction upon any of its other 

this Agreement, shall cause TCIP to carry out Part 

diligence and efficiency and in 

financial and insurance 

action, 

including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TCIP to perform such 

would 

prevent or interfere with such performance.

obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, B, C and D of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and shall cause GDI 
and TCIP to carry out Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. 

Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out Parts 

A.1, A.3, A.4, B, C and D of the Project, make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3)(a) and (6) in the table in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, available to each Project Implementation Agency, except TCIP, under a 
Protocol to be entered into between the PIU and each Project Implementation Agency, 
except TCIP, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Borrower 
and the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, provisions set forth in paragraph 6 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(b)

 The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Protocol in such 

manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, terminate or waive any Protocol or any provision 
thereof. 

Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out of Part 

A.2 of the Project, make available to TCIP the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Categories (3)(b), (4) and (5) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and TCIP under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank. 

(b) 

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, terminate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of the PIU and TCIP to maintain 

a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall cause each of the PIU, TCIP and Milli Re to: 

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 

paragraph 
Special Account for 
auditing standards acceptable to 
independent auditors acceptable to the 

(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 

the Bank, consistently applied, by 

Bank; 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 

later than six 
certified copies of the 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 

financial statements referred to in 

year as so audited, and 

accounts and 
detail 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 

and 
auditors, as the Bank may 

accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 

from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

(a) of this 
expenditures; 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 

the audit 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures; 

report for the fiscal year in which the last 

was made, all records (contracts, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the Project 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

Management Reports or statements of 

year, together with the 

preparation, 

Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 

Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, to cause the PIU not later 
than January 31, 2000, and TCIP not later than July 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to 
the Bank, each of which: 

(i) 

(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 

Project, both 
report, and projected sources 
Project for the six-month period following 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
and applications of funds for the 

the period covered by said 
financed out of the 
report 

Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;

cumulatively 
variances between 
targets; and 

(ii)

(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 

and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 

the actual and previously forecast implementation 

(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 

expenditures under 
as at the end of the 

contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 

period covered by said report.

(b)

Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

TCIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that TCIP will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TCIP or for the suspension of 
its operations.

(d)

Any provisions of the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, 

abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
TCIP to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(e)

Any material provision of the Operations Manual shall have been amended 

without the prior written consent of the Bank.

(f)

Any provision of the Standard Form of Earthquake Insurance Policy shall 

have been amended without the prior written consent of the Bank.

(g)

Any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Pool Management 

Agreement and the Financial Management Agreement shall have been amended, assigned, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the 
Bank.

(h)

Milli Re shall have not complied with any of its obligations under the 

Pool Management Agreement.

(i)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction, other than TCIP, 
shall have withdrawn any funds from the financial reserves established by TCIP for the 
payment of  claims under the National Catastrophic Insurance Program, or reallocated 
any part of such reserves to any purpose other than the operation of the National 
Catastrophic Insurance Program, or otherwise dealt with any part of such reserves in a 
manner inconsistent with their original purpose.

(j)

Any provision of the Disaster Law shall have been amended, suspended, 

abrogated or repealed, or any law, decree, regulation or other similar instrument 
adopted, which materially and adversely affects the National Catastrophic Insurance 
Program or the business, operations or affairs of TCIP.

(k)

TCIP shall have failed to implement any part of any Risk Management Plan 

previously approved by the Bank and in effect at the relevant date.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) and (h) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 

(b)

any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i), 

(j) and (k) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Termination

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Basbakanlik  
Hazine Mustesarligi Inonu Bulvari 
Emek - Ankara 
Republic of Turkey

Cable address: 

MALIYE
Hazine, Ankara 

Telex:

821-42285 
(MLYE- TR)

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

By /s/ Selcuk Demiralp 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Johannes Linn Regional 

Vice President 

Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1 

A.

General

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

   (Expressed in Dollars) to be Financed

Amount of the
Loan Allocated

   % of 
Expenditures

(1)

(2)

Works

Goods

210,220,000

 

90%

 48,000,000          100% of foreign

expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

100%

100% of such part of  
Eligible Claims which, 
under Reinsurance 
Transactions, remain 
the obligation of TCIP, 
up to the equivalent of
$17 million, and 40%
thereafter, in each case 
up to the limit of the 
excess of loss 
reinsurance cover
specified in the Risk
Management Plan, and
100% of Eligible Claims
in excess of the reinsurance 
cover specified in the Risk 
Management Plan

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

(3)

Consultants’
services and 
training

(a)

(b)

under Parts A.1,
A.3, A.4, B, C 
and D of the Project

 70,780,000

under Part A.2 
of the Project

  3,300,000

(4)

(5)

Reinsurance
Premiums

 

National
Catastrophic
Insurance
Program
under Part A.2
of the Project

 19,700,000

100%

100,000,000

 (6)

Incremental operating 
costs

6,600,000

90%

 (7)

Fee

       5,050,000

(8)

Unallocated

      41,350,000

TOTAL

     505,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 

(c)

the term “operating costs” means the costs incurred on account of the 
Project, as documented by the PIU, for rentals, utilities, vehicles’ operations and 
maintenance and travel.

3.
made in respect of:  

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a) 

payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  

(b) 

payments on account of Reinsurance Premiums under Category (4) unless a 

Reinsurance Transaction has been concluded by TCIP; and 

(c)   (i) 

payments on account of the National Catastrophic Insurance 
Program under Category (5) unless: 

(aa)  the Disaster Law has been amended, in form and substance 

to the Bank, to limit the Borrower’s liability 

satisfactory 
thereunder to 
for coverage under the National 
Program and to provide for benefits to the 
such ineligible dwellings which is materially less than that 
which they would have received had such dwellings been insured under 

residential dwellings ineligible 

Catastrophic Insurance 
owners of 

the National Catastrophic Insurance Program;  

substance 
Framework has entered into 
its terms;  

(bb)  the TCIP Legal Framework has been adopted in form and 
satisfactory to the Bank and said Legal 

effect in accordance with 

to the 
have been appointed;  

(cc)  TCIP has been established in form and substance satisfactory 
Bank and the members of its Board of Directors 

(dd)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and TCIP 

has been 
the Bank and legal 
the parties thereto stating 
Agreement has been duly authorized or 
parties and is legally binding upon them in accordance 
its terms; 

executed with terms and conditions satisfactory to 
opinions have been furnished to the Bank by 

that such Subsidiary Loan 

ratified by the 

with 

Agreement have 

been adopted by TCIP;  

(ee)  the Operations Manual and the standard form of Agency 

been 
the Bank by the 
Management Agreement have been 
the parties and is legally binding upon 
with its terms;  

(ff)  the Pool Management Agreement between TCIP and Milli Re has 

executed and legal opinions have been furnished to 

parties thereto stating that such Pool 

duly authorized or ratified by 

them in accordance 

(gg)  TCIP has entered into a Reinsurance Transaction;  

Insurance 
the Bank has been 
Eligible Claims have been 

(hh)  TCIP has issued Earthquake Insurance Policies to Earthquake 

Holders, one of the Covered Risks has occurred and 

provided with satisfactory evidence that 

filed; and 

from a 
paragraph 3(k)(v) of Schedule 6 
the application for withdrawal. 

(ii)  the Bank has been provided with a satisfactory certificate 

senior officer of TCIP contemplated in 

to this Agreement in support of 

(ii)  Notwithstanding the percentage of expenditures to be financed 

under Category 
the provisions of 
event that the Borrower shall 
confirmation and application for 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, then 
be entitled to make withdrawals under Category (5) in the 
(x) the occurrence of a Covered Risk; (y) provision to the Bank of 
evidence of the filing of Eligible Claims, and (z) the certificate referred to 

(5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above and 
paragraph 3(c)(hh) and 3(c)(ii) above, in the 
have provided the Bank with the written 
withdrawal referred to in 

the Borrower shall 
absence of: 

in paragraph 3(c)(ii) above.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent each;  (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; (d) training costs; and (e) all Reinsurance Premiums and Eligible Claims 
under the National Catastrophic Insurance Program under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 

B.

Special Account 

1.
account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 

2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 

Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and

(b)

upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 

3.
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.

4.
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 

(a)

if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 

does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;

(b)

if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 

made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or

(c)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 

The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 

5.
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.

(a)

6.
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.

(b)

If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 

Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.

Annex A to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports

1.

For the purposes of this Annex: 

(a)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 

$50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.

2.
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 

(b)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.

3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 

the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

Annex B to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports

Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 

1.
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 

2.
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.

Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 

Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 

3.
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project 

The objectives of the Project are to restore living conditions and economic 

growth in the areas affected by the Marmara Earthquake and develop an institutional 
framework to allow better disaster mitigation and risk management for future natural 
disasters.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Disaster Response System and Risk Mitigation

Provision of technical assistance and goods for the development of: (a) a 

1.
strategic plan to create and establish a comprehensive emergency management agency 
(EMAT) equipped with an operations center and communications and data networks; (b) a 
national earthquake mitigation plan; (c) a comprehensive emergency management training 
and exercise program; (d) a search and rescue capacity building program; (e) pilot 
activities to enhance the municipal emergency management system; (f) replication of 
the pilot activities on a regional scale; and (g) a public awareness campaign on 
measures to be taken before, during and after an earthquake.

(a) 

Establishment and operation of a mandatory National Catastrophic 

2.
Insurance Program for the provision of Earthquake Insurance Policies to Earthquake 
Insurance Holders against the following risks: (i) earthquake shaking; and (ii) fire 
caused by such earthquake. 

(b) 

Establishment and strengthening of TCIP’s institutional capacity through 

the provision of goods, services and operating costs.

3.
establish effective disaster mitigation through land use management and building 

Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the development of legislation to 

safety regulations; (b) the strengthening of the municipal capacity, on a pilot basis, 
to plan, regulate and implement disaster resistant development; and (c) assistance 
with implementation of land use planning and building codes in Golcuk and Adapazari.

Provision of technical assistance and goods for: (a) the establishment of a land 

4.
information system in the Project Areas; and (b) the strengthening of the capacity of 
General Directorate of State Land in the Project Areas.

Part B:

Trauma Program for Adults

Provision of works, goods, technical assistance and training for: (a) the 
establishment and operation of one central community mental health center in the 
Project Area with up to four (4) outreach centers; (b) the development of a treatment 
program for Marmara Earthquake victims; (c) establishment of a coordination committee 
for community based mental health service delivery in Project Areas; and (d) the 
administration of community mental health centers. 

Part C:

Physical Reconstruction 

1.
reconstruct urban household units in Project Areas. 

 Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria to 

2.
reconstruct rural household units in Project Areas. 

 Carrying out of investments identified under the Eligibility Criteria to 

3.
investigation and supervision of construction during Project implementation.

  Provision of technical assistance for design, site investigation, soil 

Part D:

Project Management

Provision of works, goods and technical assistance for: (a) the strengthening of 

the institutional capacity of the PIU; and (b) the establishment of its local offices 
in selected Project Areas.  

The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2004.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

A.

General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 

(c)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

Agreement. 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 

B.

Interest 

1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 

its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings: 

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 

Period, below 
other reference rates, for 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 

six-month deposits, in respect of the 

portions thereof allocated by the 

portions thereof made by 

Interest 

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 

(i)

three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 

Date for such 
interbank offered rates, or 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 

Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 

other reference rates, for 

outstanding 

loans 

Disbursed 
as a percentage per 

annum. 

(iii) the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 

Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 

4.
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
5.
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment 

1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

2.
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October, 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General 

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, and works shall 

1.
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 

2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 

(a)

Prequalification 

Bidders for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent  per contract or more 

shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines. 

(b)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods 

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 

(c)

Notification and Advertising 

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 

applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures  

1.

International Shopping 

Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

2.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less the $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $5,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

3.

Procurement of Small Works 

Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $1,730,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price or unit rate contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a local advertisement. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

4.

Purchase of Construction Materials

Construction materials for repairs or rebuilding of damaged houses, estimated to 

cost up to $8,500 equivalent for each housing unit and not to exceed $17,440,000 in 
the aggregate, shall be procured competitively from domestic sources.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

1.

Procurement Planning 

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 

$1,000,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 

2.

Prior Review

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 

provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 

The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 

2.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

Services for construction of sites, preparation of construction designs, and 

soil investigations estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

2.

Single Source Selection

Services for soil investigation, designs and mapping and site planning which are 

estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

3.

Individual Consultants

Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 

Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Selection Planning 

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.

(c)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 

awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5 

Implementation Program

Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this 

Agreement, for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) hereof, the Implementation Program for 
Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, B, C and D of the Project shall consist of the following 
provisions:

1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PIU and the Project 
Implementation Agencies in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in the PIP, including the Eligibility Criteria for the selection of financing from the 
proceeds of the Loan of investments under the Project.  The Project Implementation 
Agencies shall be responsible for carrying out the respective parts of the Project as 
follows:

Part A of the Project: MOI, GDI-PIU, TCIP, MPWS, General Directorate of Land 

Registration  and Cadastre and General Directorate of State Land.

Part B of the Project: PIU, relevant municipalities and MOH.

Part C of the Project: PIU and relevant municipalities.

Part D of the Project: PIU and local offices. 

The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of 

2.
the Project, the Steering Committee comprised of the Minister of Public Works and 
Settlement as chairman, and includes the State Minister responsible for the Housing 
Development Agency, the State Minister responsible for social services, the Minister 
of  Health, the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Minister of Interior, the 
Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, the Undersecretary of Treasury, the 
Undersecretary of the State Planning Organization and the Governors and Mayors of the 
Project Areas.

The Borrower shall transfer the PIU to the Prime Minister’s Office and provide 

3.
all necessary resources to enable such Unit to be operational by November 30, 1999. 
The Borrower shall thereafter until the completion of the Project, maintain the PIU 
with resources, staff, facilities and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank.  PIU shall have the responsibility for Project implementation and coordination 
including:

(a)   preparation of work programs under the Project;

(b) 

verification of satisfaction of the Eligibility Criteria in respect of 

all components of the work programs under the Project;

(c)   coordination of and assistance to the activities of Project 

Implementation Agencies under the Project;

(d)   management of Project finance, including maintenance of the Special 

Account and arranging for the audit thereof;

(e)   ensuring preparation of bidding and contract documents in accordance with 

agreed procurement procedures and management of procurement procedures under the 
Project;

(f) 

supervision of implementation of work programs under the Project; and

(g)   preparation and furnishing to the Bank of quarterly progress reports on 

Project implementation prepared in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank. 

4.
local offices in selected Project Areas, as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 

The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 2000, establish at least three 

The Borrower shall, not later than November 22, 1999, establish and thereafter 
5.
maintain the EMAT, with resources, staff and facilities and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

6.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2000 prepare and submit to the 
Parliament amendments to the Disaster Law, Development Law and Tender Law in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall, not later than December 15, 1999, establish and thereafter 

7.
maintain until completion of the Project, the MERLIS Committee comprised of the 
General Director of Land Registration and Cadastre as chairman and representatives of 
the General Directorate of State Land,  relevant municipalities in the Project Areas 
and General Directorate of Technical Research and Implementation within MPWS, to 
formulate land policy improvements, to advise on Project planning and implementation 
and ensure availability and transparency of information to users of cadastral data.

8.
Agency, other than TCIP, shall include, inter alia, provision with respect to: 

The Protocol to be entered into between the PIU and each Project Implementation 

(a) 

description of the activity to be financed under the Protocol and the 

amount of the proceeds of the Loan to be made available to the Project Implementation 
Agency for the implementation thereof;

(b)

the arrangement for implementation of such activity under the overall 

supervision of the PIU;

(c)

 undertakings of the Project Implementation Agency to maintain separate 
records and accounts for such activity and to furnish the PIU with quarterly reports 
on progress of the implementation thereof;

(d) 

the obligation of the Project Implementation Agency to undertake, under 

the overall supervision of the PIU, the procurement of goods, works and services under 
such activity in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 

(e) 

the technical assistance need, if any, to be provided to the Project 

Implementation Agency for implementation of the activity. 

The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1999, select potential sites in 

9.
size and location satisfactory to the Bank, for the construction of urban household 
units in Golcuk, Izmit and Adapazari. 

10.

The Borrower shall: 

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 

(c)

review with the Bank, by May 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 

shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

SCHEDULE 6 

Implementation Program for the  

National Catastrophic Insurance Program

Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this Agreement 

or the Operations Manual, for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) hereof, the 
Implementation Program for Part A.2 of the Project shall consist of the following 
provisions: 

1.
Responsibility to supervise the activities and performance of TCIP generally, 
including its compliance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the requirements and 
procedures set forth in the Operations Manual, shall be vested with GDI, to be 
maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the Project, with membership and 
terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank. 

2.

GDI-PIU shall: 

(a)

prepare the TCIP Legal Framework, including the Charter, the Standard 
Form of Earthquake Insurance Policy, the Operations Manual and the Pool Management 
Agreement, as well as the necessary amendments to the Disaster Law; 

(b)

propose eligibility criteria to the Bank for the participation in the 

National Catastrophic Insurance Program of domestic insurance companies duly licensed 
by GDI to carry on business in the Republic of Turkey;

(c)

draw up terms of reference and requests for proposals satisfactory to the 
Bank, conduct evaluations, and make recommendations for appointment to the TCIP Board, 
regarding the selection of: 

(i)

a reinsurance intermediary appointed to design a program to 

objectives of TCIP and based on modeling, to 

capital markets, to evaluate the 

achieve the 
negotiate with reinsurers and/or 
quotations and products offered by the 
their cost effectiveness in terms of the cost of 
and to place the program in the market; and

markets, to report on 

reducing risk 

(ii)

an investment adviser appointed to ensure that the best return is 

from TCIP’s investment portfolio, subject to risk and 

the TCIP.  The investment adviser will: (i) 

obtained 
liquidity objectives of 
advise on investment strategy; 
and constraints; (iii) advise on asset 
the competitive selection of asset managers; and 
performance of the chosen asset managers against the 
of their peers;

(ii) advise on investment mandate 
allocation; (iv) assist in 

(v) monitor the 

performance 

(d)
been appointed: 

once TCIP is established and the members of its Board of Directors have 

of an 

insurance nature; 

(i)

provide advice to the TCIP Board on technical matters, including 

(tasks) and 
as provide financial 

(ii)

prepare annual budget estimates for Project-related activities 

submit these to the TCIP Board for approval, as well 

reporting in general; 

(iii)  monitor, evaluate and report periodically to the TCIP Board on the 

performed by Milli Re pursuant to the Pool Management 

activities 
Agreement; and 

interface for 
issues of Project 

3.
TCIP shall: 

(iv)

provide substantive leadership for the Project and serve as an 

relations between the Borrower and the Bank on key 

implementation.

Once it has been established following the adoption of the TCIP Legal Framework, 

(a)

adopt the Operations Manual, including the Standard Form of Earthquake 

Insurance Policy; 

(b)

prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of principles acceptable to 

the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, a Risk Management Plan prior to issuing any 
Earthquake Insurance Policies and, thereafter, prepare or cause to be prepared, on the 
basis of such principles, and furnish to the Bank, new and updated Risk Management 
Plans whenever and so often as the prudent management of the risk exposure carried by 
TCIP in the conduct of its business, operations and affairs may warrant, and afford 
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with TCIP on said Plan and said 
updated Plans; 

(c)

enter into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower; 

(d)

enter into the Pool Management Agreement with Milli Re, pursuant to 
which, inter alia, Milli Re will manage the distribution of Earthquake Insurance 
Policies and the settlement of Eligible Claims, and TCIP may delegate to Milli Re the 
power and authority to negotiate and conclude on its behalf Reinsurance Transactions, 
the Agency Agreements and such other matters, if any, as TCIP may elect;

(e)

enter into Reinsurance Transactions, taking into account the advice that 

shall have been provided by the reinsurance intermediary (see paragraph 2(c)(i) 
above); 

(f)

enter into Agency Agreements with domestic insurance companies selected 

by TCIP on the basis of the eligibility criteria established by GDI-PIU (see paragraph 
2(b) above) (Approved Insurers); 

(g)

issue Earthquake Insurance Policies in the form of the Standard Form of 

Earthquake Insurance Policy, which Policies shall be distributed to Earthquake 
Insurance Holders through Approved Insurers, which Insurers shall be responsible to 
collect from such Holders the premium therefor established from time to time by the 
Borrower and remit same to TCIP on a monthly basis, together with a report regarding 
the policies sold and the premiums collected in the previous month; 

(h)

select a reinsurance intermediary pursuant to the procedure set forth in 

Part B of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

(i)

subject to paragraph 3(i) of this Schedule 6, hold accumulated premiums 

in a segregated escrow or trust account (or in a separate account which, under the 
laws of the Borrower, would enjoy at least equivalent protection from seizure, set-off 
or attachment), for the benefit of Earthquake Insurance Holders only, with a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and, with the assistance of an investment 
adviser (see paragraph 2(c)(ii) above), invest such funds in accordance with the 
requirements set forth in the Operations Manual, including the relevant asset 
allocation criteria. For greater certainty and the avoidance of any doubt, the parties 
hereto agree that: (i) the Operations Manual shall provide that at least fifty per 
cent (50%) of such funds shall be invested in foreign assets or foreign investments; 
and (ii) to the extent permitted by the laws of the Borrower, such foreign assets or 
foreign investments shall be held offshore, subject to trust arrangements acceptable 
to the Borrower and to the Bank, governed by the laws of England and Wales;  

(j)

once its long term assets (those funds not required to finance its 

working capital requirements) have accumulated to an amount equal to $50 million, 
enter into the Financial Management Agreement with a reputable asset manager 
satisfactory to the Bank to assist in managing such assets;

(k)

following the occurrence of a Covered Risk:

independent private 
to Milli Re regarding Eligible 

Claims;

(i)

nominate and appoint to act on its behalf duly qualified, 

loss adjusters, who shall report on its behalf 

recover the 

(ii)

file claims under the Reinsurance Transactions then in force and 
amounts payable thereunder as promptly as possible;

liquidate as many 
circumstances; 

(iii) in an orderly fashion, so as to preserve the value thereof, 

of its long term assets as may be necessary under the 

productive 
part, the payment of 

(iv)

ensure that any amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account serve a 

purpose by employing these exclusively to finance, in 

Eligible Claims; 

(v)

except in the circumstances contemplated in the final paragraph of 

3(c)(i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in support of any 

paragraph 
application for 
allocated from time to time to Category 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, prepare a certificate, 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, from a senior officer of TCIP 
effect that;  (a) the amount claimed in such application for withdrawal 
is in respect of  such part of Eligible Claims which, under Reinsurance 

withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan 

(5) in the table in the 
in form and 

to the 

Transactions, remains the obligation of TCIP, as specified in the Risk 

Management Plan then in effect, or in respect of the excess of the 

receivable by TCIP under Reinsurance Transactions as a 

recoveries 
result of the 
any case as in effect as at the 
an indication of the relevant amount 
respect to any amount claimed for purposes of 
part of Eligible Claims which, under Reinsurance 
Transactions, remains the obligation of TCIP, TCIP either has paid, or has 

date of such application, together with 
in each such case; (b) with 

occurrence of such Covered Risk, or both, in 

payment of  such 

funds available to pay, at least 60% of such amount (with evidence 

satisfactory to the Bank) and the amount claimed does not 

exceed 40% thereof; 
purposes of payment of Eligible 
received by TCIP under Reinsurance Transactions as 
occurrence of such Covered Risk, the amount actually 
TCIP under such Reinsurance Transactions then in effect (with 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank); (d) the amount claimed under the 

(c) with respect to any amount claimed for 

Claims in excess of amounts 

a result of the 

receivable by 

application for withdrawal have not been claimed previously; and (e) such 

amount requested has not been financed and will not be financed 

from any other 
the payment of Eligible 
Borrower may request the Bank to 
payment of  such part of Eligible Claims 
Reinsurance Transactions, remains the obligation of TCIP; and 

source, and will be used exclusively for purposes of 
Claims. Notwithstanding clause (b) above, the 
fund up to $17 million toward the 

which, under 

4 of this 
adjusters, settle 
provisions set forth in 

(vi)  on the basis of the Borrower’s announcement referred to in Section 
Schedule 6 and on the basis of the reports filed by its loss 

promptly all Eligible Claims in accordance with the 

the Earthquake Insurance Policies. 

(l)

maintain records of all Earthquake Insurance Policies issued, all loss 

adjustment reports and all records relating to the payment of Eligible Claims, for at 
least one (1) year following receipt by the Bank of the relevant audit report provided 
for under Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement; and 

(m)

 commencing 6 months after the establishment of TCIP and semi-annually 

thereafter, furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank a report specifying the 
number of Earthquake Insurance Policies issued, the amount of premium income received, 
and a description in reasonable detail of the nature and amount of its assets by 
class.   

As promptly as possible following the occurrence of a Covered Risk, the Borrower 

4.
shall make a public announcement in which it shall, among other matters, provide its 
best reasonable estimate of the extent of the losses suffered by residential dwellings 
as a result thereof, as well as confirm whether such losses will be within the 
financial resources of, and available to, TCIP at the relevant date (including 
accumulated premium reserves and investment income, recoveries under Reinsurance 
Transactions and any unwithdrawn amount in the Loan Account), in which case Eligible 
Claims will be paid by TCIP in full, or whether such losses exceed such financial 
resources, in which case Eligible Claims will be prorated accordingly.

Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph 5, the 

5. 
Borrower shall, for the purposes of financing claims under the National Catastrophic 
Insurance Program, if deemed to be justified by the Bank under the circumstances 

existing at the time, be entitled to withdraw on the Closing Date the balance, if any, 
in the Loan Account allocated at that time to Category (5) in the table in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement on such Date, subject to the following provisions: 

(a) 

no later than by November 30, 2004, the Borrower shall have provided the 
Bank with written confirmation of its intention to withdraw, on the Closing Date, the 
entire balance so remaining unwithdrawn in the Loan Account for the purposes of 
financing such claims by supplementing the financial reserves then established by TCIP 
for such purposes; and 

(b)

  no withdrawal of such balance remaining shall be made unless the Bank 
is satisfied with the progress achieved by TCIP in the implementation of the National 
Catastrophic Insurance Program and an agreement is reached among the Bank, the 
Borrower and TCIP as to the use of such proceeds.

(i)   Other than for the purposes of paragraph 5 of this Schedule 6 
Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

6. 
above, if the 
disbursement out of the Loan 
permit TCIP to pay Eligible Claims; or (b) 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
request; or (B) refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount 
such amount withdrawn deposit from the Loan Account or the portion thereof 

Account: (a) was made other than to 

was not justified by the 

of 

the Bank may 

promptly upon notice 

not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 

further disbursement by the Bank from the Loan Account shall be made 

Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 

until the 
refund, as the 

case may be. 

(ii)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to the above paragraph 6(i) 

credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 

shall be 
withdrawal or cancellation in 
provisions of this Agreement, including the 

accordance with the relevant 

General Conditions.

