CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 7021 PNG

Loan Agreement

(Governance Promotion Adjustment Loan)

THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

between 

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 16, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 7021 PNG

AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 2000, between between THE INDEPENDENT 

STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 

May 15, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 

(B)

on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 

decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as hereinafter provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 

1, 1999 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 

terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"Bank of Papua New Guinea" and the acronym "BPNG" mean the 

central bank of the Borrower;

(b)

"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 

2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

(c)
Treasury;

"DFT" means the Borrower’s Department of Finance and 

(d)

"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year 

commencing January 1 and ending December 31;

"Kina" means the currency of the Borrower;

"NEC" means the National Executive Council of the Borrower;

Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement; 

"First Tranche" means the amount of the Loan referred to in 

(h) 

"Second Tranche" means the amount of the Loan referred to in 

Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement; and

(i) 

"Floating Tranche" means the amount of the Loan referred to 

in Section 2.01 (c) of this Agreement.

(e)

(f)

(g)

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 

and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to ninety million Dollars ($90,000,000), in three tranches as 
follows:

(a)

a first tranche in an amount equal to thirty-four million 

one hundred thousand Dollars ($34,100,000) (the First Tranche); 

(b)

a second tranche in an amount equal to thirty-five million 

Dollars ($35,000,000) (the Second Tranche); and 

(c) 

a floating tranche in an amount equal to twenty million 

Dollars ($20,000,000) (the Floating Tranche).

Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 

(d) and (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw 
the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program 
and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.

(b)

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 

first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in BPNG a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.

(c)

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 

not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any 
time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment 

for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to 
the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.

(d)

No withdrawals of the proceeds of the Second Tranche shall 
be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based 
on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 

with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 

(i)
carrying out of the Program; 
(ii)
Borrower is satisfactory, as 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 

that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 

measured on the basis of 

and 

(iii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to 

this Agreement have been 
of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the 
may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days 

taken.  If, after said exchange 
Bank 

after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 

taken steps satisfactory to the 
(ii) and (iii) above, then the Bank may, by notice to 

Bank, in respect of (i), 

the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or 

any part thereof.

(e)

No withdrawals of the Floating Tranche shall be made from 

the Loan Account unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:

with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 

(i)
carrying out of the Program; 
(ii)
Borrower is satisfactory, as 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 

that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 

measured on the basis of 

and 

this Agreement have been 
views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the 

(iii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3 to 
taken. If, after said exchange of 

Bank may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 

90 days 
not have taken steps satisfactory to the 
Bank, 
in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the Bank may, by notice to 

after such notice, the Borrower shall 

the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 

Loan or any part thereof.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such 

later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 

an amount equal to nine hundred thousand Dollars  ($900,000). The 
Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of such fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 

charge on the principal amount of the loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at the rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per 
cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to 
accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions but not to include the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 

thereafter.

Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 

amount of the loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each interest period at the variable rate; provided, that upon 
a conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the conversion period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.

Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 

semi-annually in arrears on November 15 and May 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 

Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 

following conversions of the terms of the loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:

of the principal amount of 
unwithdrawn, to an approved currency;

(i)

a change of the loan currency of all or any portion 

the Loan, withdrawn or 

or any portion of the 
a variable rate to a fixed rate, or vice 

(ii)

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
principal amount of the Loan from 

versa; and

(iii) the setting of limits on the variable rate applicable 

to all or any portion of 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
interest rate cap or interest rate collar on the said 
variable rate.

the principal amount of the loan 
establishment of an 

(b)

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "conversion", 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of  Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

ARTICLE III

Particular Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(b)

Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.

(c)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

(a)

have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 

appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(b)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

not later than four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and

(c)

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

ARTICLE IV

Additional Event of Suspension

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister for Finance and Treasury of the Borrower 

is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Department of Finance and Treasury
P.O. Box 710
Waigani, 
National Capital District
Papua New Guinea

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

328 8213

TREASURER

Boroko

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

NE22218

(675) 

Facsimile:

477-6391

Cable address:

Telex:

 

INTBAFRAD

248423 (MCI) or       (202) 

Washington, D.C.

 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.

THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF 
   PAPUA NEW GUINEA

By /s/ John Kaputin

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Klaus Rohland

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific Region

SCHEDULE 1

Excluded Expenditures

For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 

the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:

1. 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 

2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;

3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

112                     -

Alcoholic beverages

121                     -

122                     -

525                     -
materials

667

   -

Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)

Radioactive and associated 

Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked

728

728.43

Tobacco processing machinery

718                  718.7
thereof; 

897                  897.3
platinum

watch

silversmiths’

971                     -
gold

Nuclear reactors, and parts 

fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors

Jewelry of gold, silver or 

group metals (except watches and 

cases) and goldsmiths’ or 

wares (including set gems)

Gold, non-monetary (excluding 

ores and concentrates)

4.
purpose or for luxury consumption;

expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 

expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 

5.
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);

6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, 
or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations; and

expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 

7.
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation.

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 

Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies:

Payment Date

November 15, 2005
May 15, 2006
November 15, 2006
May 15, 2007
November 15, 2007

Installment share
(Expressed as a %) 

1.93
2.00
2.07
2.14
2.21

May 15, 2008
November 15, 2008
May 15, 2009
November 15, 2009
May 15, 2010
November 15, 2010
May 15, 2011
November 15, 2011
May 15, 2012
November 15, 2012
May 15, 2013
November 15, 2013
May 15, 2014
November 15, 2014
May 15, 2015
November 15, 2015
May 15, 2016
November 15, 2016
May 15, 2017
November 15, 2017
May 15, 2018
November 15, 2018
May 15, 2019
November 15, 2019
May 15, 2020

2.29
2.37
2.46
2.54
2.63
2.72
2.82
2.92
3.02
3.12
3.23
3.35
3.46
3.58
3.71
3.84
3.97
4.11
4.26
4.41
4.56
4.72
4.89
5.06
5.61

If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 

2. 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:

(a)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 

withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b)

Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a)

Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any 

3.
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of  withdrawal.

(b)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 

paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 

4.
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 

any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate. 

If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 

5.
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.

SCHEDULE 3

Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)
and (e) of this Agreement

Part A:

Conditions for the Release of the Second Tranche

A (1). Strengthening Economic Management

Improving Fiscal Management and Enhancing Macroeconomic Stability 

Release by DFT on a timely basis of full cash warrants for the 

1.
development budget as projected, and for identified Government priorities 
in the recurrent budget.

 Establishment and operation by DFT of an integrated payroll and 

2.
human resources records management system in accordance with criteria 
agreed with the Bank.

3.
program consistent with approved targets in the Borrower’s FY2000 budget.

Maintenance of expenditures on the Borrower’s structural reform 

Improving Debt Management

4.
Establishment by DFT of a fully functioning debt management office 
within Treasury and commencement of portfolio restructuring as necessary.

5.
(MRSF) Act (Chapter 194). 

Repeal by the Borrower of the Mineral Resource Stabilization Fund 

Improving the Operating Environment for Business

(a)

Completion of audits (with respect to accounts up to and 

6.
including 1999) of Telikom, Papua New Guinea Electricity Commission, 
Papua New Guinea Harbours Board and Air Niugini Limited by recognized 
external auditors acceptable to the Bank, according to internationally 
accepted accounting standards; (b) NEC approval of industry structural 
arrangements, community service obligation arrangements and forms of 
privatization for these entities; and (c) commencement of due diligence 
exercises for the privatization of these entities, with terms of 
reference agreed with the Bank.

Implementation by the Borrower of recommendations agreed with the 
7.
Bank (arising from the Borrower’s ongoing Taxation Review) in its FY2001 
budget, with respect to personal and corporate taxes, tariff rates and 
tariff exemptions.

Completion by the Borrower of a review of its competition policy, 

8.
with terms of reference agreed with the Bank, discussion with the Bank of 
the results of the review, and implementation of recommendations 
acceptable to the Bank. 

A (2). Improving Governance

General

Publication by DFT of budget reconciliations and projections 
9.
according to a schedule agreed with the Bank, and the completion of 
additional measures to improve fiscal transparency and accountability as 
agreed with the Bank.

10.
Securing of funding secured for the Rural Development Program and 
its managing agent, for 2001; and the appointment of the managing agent 
by the Borrower in accordance with procedures, criteria and terms of 
reference agreed with the Bank.

Strengthening, by each respective agency, of the Borrower’s Auditor 

11.
General’s Office, Ombudsman Commission and Parliamentary Public Accounts 
Committee in accordance with an implementation plan agreed with the Bank, 
and the allocation, in the Borrower’s FY2001 budget, of funds necessary 
for carrying out the implementation plan.

Strengthening of the Borrower's Central Government Procurement 
12.
System in accordance with an implementation plan agreed with the Bank

Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness of the Civil Service

13.
recommendations of functional reviews, as agreed with the Bank.

Incorporation in the Borrower's FY2001 budget of the 

Improving the Resources and Delivery of Health and Education Services

14.
for implementation in the FY2001 budget.

NEC approval of the National Health Plan, acceptable to the Bank, 

15.
medical supply kits for aid posts.

Standardization by the Borrower of the procurement of pre-packed 

Improving Forestry Management

16.
and royalty regime, satisfactory to the Bank.

Implementation by the Borrower of reforms to its forestry revenue 

17.
(FMAs), timber permits and geographic extensions to timber permits.

Completion of an independent review of Forest Management Agreements 

18.
Adoption by the Borrower's Parliament of amendments, acceptable to 
the Bank, to the Forestry Act 1991 (as amended in 1993) covering: (a) the 
regulatory framework for the clearance of forested land; (b) 
non-commercial disclosure by the Forestry Board; (c) delegation of the 
powers of the Board to an individual; and (d) composition of the Forestry 
Board.

Improving Efficiency of Financial Services and Reducing Systemic Risk

Implementation by the Borrower of  recommendations of the 

19. 
Commission of Inquiry into the National Provident Fund (NPF), pertaining 
to the Borrower, as agreed with the Bank.

Adoption by the Borrower’s Parliament, of legislation on the 

20. 
regulation and supervision of the pension industry, acceptable to the 
Bank. 

Part B:

Conditions for the release of the Floating Tranche

Completion of actions by the Borrower and all other responsible 

21.
agencies to:
(a) bring the Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation group to the point of 

sale; and
(b) dispose of the remaining assets in the Finance Pacific 
Limited/Finance Pacific Group.

