CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4588 TU

Loan Agreement

(Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

between 

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 21, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4588 TU

AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 

November 23, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
financial sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 

(B)

on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 

decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 

Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through  October 6, 1999), with the modifications 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement: 

(a)

Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:

“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 

the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 

(b)

Section 4.01 is modified to read:

“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement.”;

(c)

Section 5.01 is modified to read:

“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 

the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”;

(d)

(e)

The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;

Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 

such  later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and 

the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 

reasonably 
Preamble 
the Bank 
the 

request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”;  and

(f)

Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 

above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 

terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Banking Law” means  Banking Law of the Borrower No. 4389, 

dated June 18, 1999, as amended by Law No. 4491 which was published in 
the Official Gazette on December 19, 1999;

(b)

“BRSA” means the Bank Regulatory and Supervisory Agency of 

the Borrower, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank;

(c)

“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of the Borrower;

(d)

“Decree No. 99/13761” means the Decree of the Council of 
Ministers of the Borrower on the loan classification and provisioning 
rule dated December 20, 1999, which was published in the Official Gazette 
on December 21, 1999;   

(e)

“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 

2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

(f)

“International Accounting Standards” or “IAS” mean the 

accounting standards issued or endorsed by the International Accounting 
Standards Committee;

(g) 

“SDIF” means the Savings and Deposit Insurance Fund of the 

Borrower, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank; and

(h)
Borrower.

“Treasury” means the Undersecretariat of Treasury of the 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 

and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to  seven hundred seventy seven million seven hundred eighty 
thousand Dollars ($777,780,000).

Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 

and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program.

(b) 

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 

first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.

(c)

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 

not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any 
time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to 
the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.

(d)

No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the 

aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account 
shall have reached the equivalent of $392,778,900 unless the Bank shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken.

If, after said exchange of views, the progress achieved by the Borrower 
in respect of sub-paragraphs (A), (B) and (C) above is not acceptable to 
the Bank, the Bank may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps 
acceptable to the Bank, in respect of said sub-paragraphs (A), (B), and 
(C) above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 

equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 

charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but 

the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
and after the initial period, each period from 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
the next following Interest Payment 

excluding, 
thereafter, 
and 
excluding 
Date.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement.

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest 

(or, in the case of the initial Interest 

value the Interest Payment Date 

preceding the first day of 
reasonably determined by 

percentage per 

the 
in 
Period 
Period, for 
occurring on or next 
such Interest Period), as 
the Bank and expressed as a 
annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 

offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

the Bank and expressed as a percentage 

minus 

interbank 
six-month 

Bank to 
made by 
determined by 
per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 

LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.  

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Particular Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(b)

Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.

(c)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

(a)

have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 

appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(b)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

not later than four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and

(c)

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.

ARTICLE IV

Additional Event of Suspension

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 

(a)

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that 

the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

(b)

The Banking Law has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 

repealed, waived or failed to be enforced so as to affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to achieve the objectives of the 
Program.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is 

designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
06510

Cable address: 

Telex:

Facsimile:

212-8550

MALIYE

Hazine, Ankara

821-42285

(MLYE-TR)

(312) 

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

477-6391

INTBAFRAD

248423 (MCI) or

(202) 

Washington, D.C.

 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

By /s/ A. Umit Gonulal

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Ajay Chhibber

Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Excluded Expenditures

For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 

the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:

1. 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 

2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 

the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;

3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

   -

   -

   -

   -

   -

718.7

728.43

897.3

substitutes)

112

121

122

525

667

718

728

897

platinum

gold

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco 

Radioactive and associated 
materials

Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked

Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors

Tobacco processing machinery

Jewelry of gold, silver or 

group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)

971

   -

Gold, non-monetary (excluding 

ores and concentrates)

4.
purpose or for luxury consumption;

expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 

expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 

5.
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);

6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, 
or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations; and

expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 

7.
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 

remedy the situation.

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

On each April 15 and October 15

 

beginning April 15, 2006 

through April 15, 2017

on October 15, 2017 

Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)*

32,410,000

32,410,000

32,350,000

Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)(C) of this Agreement

SCHEDULE 3

A.

Institutional Framework

Satisfactory measures have been taken to fully operationalize BRSA 

1.
with adequate organizational structure, budget, staffing and salaries, 
including the issuance of BRSA’s operational policies and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.

Execution of a memorandum of understanding, satisfactory to the 

2.
Bank, between BRSA, the Central Bank and other relevant agencies, as 
necessary, to ensure adequate information exchange and policy 
coordination in the financial sector.

B.

3.

Prudential and Accounting/Disclosure Rules

Satisfactory measures have been taken to:

(a)   allow full tax deductibility of specific loan loss 

provisions for commercial banks with a phase-in period starting from 
January 1, 2001; 

(b)   further revise Decree No. 99/13761 on the loan loss 
provisioning rule, with a phase-in period not extending beyond December 
31, 2002, to: (i) introduce  a satisfactory specific provisioning 
requirement for watch loans, taking into account an assessment by BRSA of 
the credit risks associated with such loans; (ii) lift the exemption from 
specific provisioning requirements for all agricultural support loans 
except for which the Borrower has explicitly guaranteed the loans and 
assumed the credit risk; (iii) include a specific provisioning 
requirement for equity exposures; and (iv) introduce more prudent 
collateral classification; and

(c)   ensure the satisfactory compliance of commercial banks with 

the requirement to build up provisioning balances in line with the 
timetable specified in Decree No. 99/13761 on the loan loss provisioning 
rule.

4.
including:

Satisfactory implementation of exposure limits in the Banking Law 

(a)   issuance of regulations by BRSA or Treasury, satisfactory to 

the Bank, to clarify the exposure limits and define relevant terms; and

(b)   the monitoring of the commercial banks compliance with the 

seventy-five percent (75%) maximum exposure limit, applicable as of 
January 1, 2001, as set forth in the Banking Law, and initiation of 
corrective actions in case of non-compliance.

Announcement by BRSA of its intention to undertake unscheduled 
5.
on-site examinations, in coordination with foreign supervisors where 
necessary, such as for foreign branches or subsidiaries, to verify 
compliance with consolidated foreign exchange open position limits 
between reporting dates.

6.
Revision by BRSA or Treasury of the related consolidated financial 
reporting requirement to: (a) allow quarterly verification of compliance 
by commercial banks with the consolidated capital adequacy requirement; 
and (b) extend coverage of consolidated reporting requirement to 
horizontal conglomerates.

Issuance of a regulation by BRSA or Treasury, satisfactory to the 

7.
Bank, to amend the existing solo capital adequacy rule to introduce 
market risk charges, including for securities price fluctuations, and 
foreign exchange and interest rate risk.

Issuance of a risk management regulation by BRSA, satisfactory to 

8.
the Bank, to require commercial banks to build comprehensive risk 
management systems for the management of liquidity, credit, market, legal 
and operational risks.

Issuance of regulations by BRSA or Treasury, satisfactory to the 

9.
Bank, to introduce revised securities valuation rules, pension accounting 
rules and disclosure standards for commercial banks in accordance with 
applicable IAS.

C.

Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution

10.
problem and failed commercial banks including:

Satisfactory measures have been taken to resolve the status of 

(a)  establishment of a special unit to deal with problem banks, 

with adequate resources and staff and under terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Bank, within BRSA;

(b)  adoption by BRSA of a pre-failure prompt corrective action 

manual to define mandatory pre-failure intervention triggers; and

(c)  resolution by Treasury, BRSA and SDIF, of all problem banks in 

a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

D.

State Bank Commercialization and Privatization

11.
commercialization and privatization of state banks encompassing:

Progress satisfactory to the Bank has been made for the 

(a)   privatization of Vakif Bank. For the purposes of this 
paragraph “privatization” means that a contract for the sale of the bank 
has been entered into with private owners and all of the shares have been 
irrevocably transferred to the private owners; 

(b)   development of a time bound action plan, to resolve the 

stock of duty losses on the books of Emlak Bank and Halk Bank and 
issuance of government bonds and provision of interest payments in cash 
on such bonds in accordance with the said action plan;

(c)

development of a comprehensive strategic plan and detailed 

corporate action plans for the commercialization and restructuring of the 
operations of Halk Bank;

(d)

appointment of an investment bank or an equivalent 
professional entity, satisfactory to the Bank, with a mandate to 
privatize Emlak Bank and Halk Bank;

(e)   development of a time bound action plan, to resolve the 

stock of duty losses on the books of Ziraat Bank, and issuance of 
government bonds and provision of interest payments in cash on such bonds 
in accordance with the said action plan; and

(f)   development of a comprehensive strategic plan and detailed 

corporate action plans for the commercialization, operational 
restructuring and financial restructuring of the operations of Ziraat 
Bank.

