CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4569 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Hebei Urban Environment Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 1, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4569 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 

CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Hebei (as defined in 
Section 1.02(h)) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Hebei, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and Hebei (the Project Agreement);

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 

Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through October 6, 1999, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 

terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

 “Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of any 

change in land or water use due to works carried out or to be carried out 
under the Project, would incur the involuntary loss, temporarily or 
permanently, of shelter, productive assets or access to productive 
assets, or of income or means of livelihood and, as a consequence, have 
their living standards or production levels adversely affected; and 
“Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons. 

(b)

“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table 

in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

(c)

“Environmental Assessment” means the Hebei Urban Environment 

Project Environmental Assessment of Parts A and B of the Project dated 
March 2000, which includes environmental mitigation measures and the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation 
of such measures. 

(d)
successor thereto.

“Handan” means Handan Municipality in Hebei, and any 

(e)

“Handan RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action Plan for Urban 

Environment Project of Handan City” dated October 1999, which is Handan’s 
land acquisition, removal and resettlement plan for Parts A(2) and B(2) 
of the Project, and includes the procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, as the same may be 
revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.

(f)

“Handan Water Supply Company” means Handan Water Supply 

Company, a state-owned enterprise established in 1958 and operating 
pursuant to its Administration Regulations and Institutional Arrangement 
of October 1998 and to Business License No. 1304001400188, dated 
December, 1996, issued by Handan Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau, and any successor thereto.

(g)

“Handan Sewage Treatment Co., Ltd.” means Handan Sewage 

Treatment Co., Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company established 
and operating pursuant to its Charter of March 23, 1999, and to Business 
License No. 1304001000125, dated March 26, 1999, issued by Handan 
Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor 
thereto.

(h)

“Hebei” means Hebei Province, an administrative sub-division 

of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

(i)

 “Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan” means the action 
plan dated April 26, 2000, setting out a program of actions to be carried 
out by Hebei and the Project Municipalities over a ten-year period to 
control and reduce water pollution by industries. 

(j)

“PMO” means the project management office maintained 

pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.

(k)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 

Hebei of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement.

(l)

“Project Municipalities” means, collectively, Handan, 

Shijiazhuang and Tangshan, and “Project Municipality” means, 
individually, any of the Project Municipalities.

(m)

“Resettlement Action Plans” means collectively, the Handan 

RAP, Shijiazhuang RAP and Tangshan RAP.

(n)

“Respective RAP” means:

(i)
Treatment Co., Ltd.:  Handan 

for Handan Water Supply Company and Handan Sewage 

RAP;

Shijiazhuang RAP; and 

(ii)

for Shijiazhuang Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd.: 

Wastewater Treatment Co., 

Ltd:  Tangshan RAP.

(iii) for Tangshan Water Supply Company and for Tangshan 

(o)

“Shijiazhuang” means Shijiazhuang Municipality in Hebei, and 

any successor thereto.

(p)

 “Shijiazhuang RAP” means the ‘Resettlement Action Plan for 

Sewage Treatment of Shijiazhuang City” dated October 1999, which is 
Shijiazhuang’s land acquisition, removal and resettlement plan for Part 
B(3) of the Project, and includes the procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, as the 
same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.

(q)

“Shijiazhuang Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd.” means 

Shijiazhuang Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd., a state-owned limited 
liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 
July 8, 1999, and to Business License No. 1001000125, dated October 9, 
1999, issued by Shijiazhuang Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau, and any successor thereto.

(r)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 

2.02(b) of this Agreement.  

(s)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the 

agreements to be entered into between each of the Project Municipalities 
and its Utility Company pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes schedules to said agreements; and “Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement” means, individually, any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

(t)
successor thereto.

“Tangshan” means Tangshan Municipality in Hebei, and any 

(u)

“Tangshan RAP” means the “Resettlement Action Plan for Urban 

Environment Project of Tangshan City” dated October 1999, which is 
Tangshan’s land acquisition, removal and resettlement plan for Parts A(1) 
and B(1) of the Project, and includes the procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, as the 
same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.

(v)

“Tangshan Water Supply Company” means Tangshan Water Supply 

Company, a state-owned enterprise established and operating pursuant to 
its Administration Regulations and Institutional Arrangement dated May 
30, 1999, and to Business License No. 1302001410764, dated April 4, 1997, 
issued by Tangshan Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and 
any successor thereto.

(w)

“Tangshan Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd.” means Tangshan 

Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd., a state-owned limited liability company 
established and operating pursuant to its Charter of May 28, 1999, and to 
Business License No. 1302001000678, dated December 29, 1997, issued by 
Tangshan Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any 
successor thereto. 

(x)

“Utility Company” means in respect of:

Sewage Treatment Co., 

Ltd.; 

(i)

Handan:  the Handan Water Supply Company and Handan 

Co., Ltd.; and

(ii)

Shijiazhuang: the Shijiazhuang Wastewater Treatment 

Tangshan Wastewater Treatment 

Co., Ltd.

(iii) Tangshan: the Tangshan Water Supply Company and 

collectively, referred to as “Utility Companies.” 

(y)

“Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project” means:

and E of the Project; 

(i)

for Handan Water Supply Company:  Parts A(2), C, D 

D and E of the Project; 

(ii)

for Handan Sewage Treatment Co., Ltd.: Parts B(2), C, 

Parts B(3), C, D and E of 

the Project; 

(iii) for Shijiazhuang Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd.:  

and E of the Project; and

(iv)

for Tangshan Water Supply Company:  Parts A(1), C, D 

B(1), C, D and E of the 

Project.

(v)

for Tangshan Wastewater Treatment Co., Ltd:  Parts 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 

and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 

Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and 

maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 of this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such 

later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 

equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 

charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 

including the date of this 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 

Agreement to, but 

thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 

including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
Date.

Section 2.07 of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 

the London interbank 
deposits in Dollar for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

offered rate for six-month 

Interest Period), as 

percentage per annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 

(A) three-fourths of one 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
of the Bank’s outstanding 

reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 

borrowings or portions thereof 

allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

loans or 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 

per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 

LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 

the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 

semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Hebei to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Hebei therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Hebei to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available 

to Hebei on the following principal terms:

(i)

equivalent in terms of 
the date, or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Account or payment out of the Special Account, as the case may be) of the 

the principal amount so made available shall be the 
dollars (determined as of 

Loan 

paid out on account of the 
services required for the Project and to be financed 
the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be recovered by the Borrower in 

value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
cost of goods, works and 

out of 

dollars;

(ii)

the Borrower shall recover: (A) the principal amount 

so made available; and 
percent (1%) of the Loan over a period of twenty 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; and

(B) an amount equal to one 

(20) 

(iii) the Borrower shall charge Hebei (A) interest on the 

principal amount so made 
remaining unpaid from time to time, at a rate 
to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 

available and withdrawn and 

equal 

pursuant to Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (B) a 

commitment charge on the 
available and not withdrawn from time to time at a 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

principal amount so made 

rate 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 

of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 

obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Hebei pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

with sound accounting 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(i)

maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance 

practices, records and 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

received the audit report 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 

for the fiscal year in which the 

payment 

invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 

evidencing such expenditures;

records; and

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 

ensure that such records and accounts are included in 

(iv)
the annual audit 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
together with the procedures 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 

expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, 
and internal controls 

referred to in paragraph (b) of 

support the related withdrawals.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in 

paragraph (a) (i) of this 
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 

Section, including those 

the Bank;

case not later than six 

months after the end of each such 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 

year the report of such audit by said 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

auditors, of 

requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as 

to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
relied 

statements of expenditure 

said records and 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
accounts and the audit thereof as 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)

Hebei shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 

under the Project Agreement. 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 

the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that Hebei will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c)

Any of the parties to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 

shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations 
thereunder.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 

condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely, the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Project 
Municipalities and their respective Utility Company.

Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional 

matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to 
the Bank:

The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Hebei and is legally binding upon Hebei in accordance with its terms.

(a)

(b)

Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly 

authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally 
binding on said parties in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 

as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

FINANMIN
Beijing 

22486 MFPRC CN

68551125

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

477-6391

INTBAFRAD

248423 (MCI) or

(202) 

Washington, D.C.

 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

By /s/ Zhu Guangyao

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

Category

Financed

(1)

Works

(2)
foreign

Goods

100%

expenditures

cost) and

expenditures

items procured

(4)
under

Fee

of the

Agreement

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 

1.
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:

Amount of the Loan
   Allocated
   (Expressed in Dollars)

   % of
Expenditures
to be 

   62,300,000

46%

   66,900,000

100% of 

expenditures, 

of local 

(ex-factory 

75% of local 

for other 

locally

100%

Section 2.04 

Loan 

(3)

Consultants’ services
and training

   11,800,000

    1,500,000

Amount due 

(5)

Unallocated

TOTAL

    7,500,000

  150,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 

currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region and expenditures in the currency of 
the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that 

are not foreign expenditures. 

3.
shall be made in respect of:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 

(a)

payments made for expenditures under the Project prior to 

the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 

amount not exceeding $5,000,000 for expenditures made in respect of 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after March 15, 2000; and

(b)

payments made for expenditures by each Utility Company under 

Category 1 until agreements, acceptable to the Bank, have been entered 
into in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, with consultancy firms for the provision of: (i) institutional 
and financial technical assistance services under Part C of the Project; 
and (ii) design review and construction management and quality control 
technical assistance services under Parts A and B of the Project. 

4.
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 

(a)
equivalent each; 

works under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 

(b)

goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent 

each; 

(c)

consultants’ services under contracts with firms or 

individuals, each costing less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 
equivalent respectively; and

(d)

training, regardless of the cost thereof, all under such 

terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist Hebei in its long-term 

urban environmental services improvement program to: (a) recover from 
environmental degradation of its water and land resources; (b) provide an 
adequate supply of safe water to its growing urban population and 
industries; and (c) strengthen the institutional and financial capacities 
of utilities. 

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 

modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A.

Water Supply Improvement

Improving the quality of water supplied through:

(1)

Tangshan Water Supply

(a)

Construction of a raw water intake pumping station with a 
capacity of 160,000 cubic meter per day (m3/day) and a water treatment 
plant with a capacity 150,000 m3/day in Tangshan.  

(b)

Laying of about 19 kilometers (km) of raw water transmission 

pipelines and about 10 km of distribution mains in Tangshan. 

(2)

Handan  Water Supply

(a)

Construction of raw water intakes with a total capacity 

120,000 m3/day and about 57 km of raw water transmission mains in Handan. 

(b)

Expansion of the Tiexi Water Treatment Plant to increase its 

capacity by 100,000 m3day in Handan. 

(c)

Rehabilitation of about 54 km of the water distribution 

network in Handan. 

Part B.

Wastewater Management

Improving wastewater management through:

(1)

Tangshan Wastewater 

Construction of a wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of  

120,000 m3/day and a secondary wastewater collection network of about 20 
km in Tangshan.

(2)

Handan Wastewater 

(a)

Construction of a wastewater treatment plant with a capacity 

100,000 m3/day and a secondary wastewater collection network of about 40 
km in Handan. 

(b)

Rehabilitation and expansion of the North Lift Sewage 

Pumping Station to increase its capacity to 60,000 m3/day. 

(c)

Expansion of the existing East Wastewater Treatment Plant 
sludge treatment facility to increase its capacity by 33,000 m3/day in 
Handan.

(3)

Shijiazhuang Wastewater

Construction of a wastewater treatment plant (with sludge treatment 

with energy recovery facilities) with a capacity of 500,000 m3/day, and 
construction of about 40 km of trunk mains and a secondary wastewater 
collection network in Shijiazhuang. 

Part C.

Institutional Strengthening

Strengthening the capacity of Utility Companies in: (i) project, 
financial and institutional management and utility operation; and (ii) 
construction management and supervision, through the provision of 
equipment, consultants’ services and training.

Part D.

Industrial Water Pollution Control

Improving control of industrial water pollution through a program 

of actions designed to reduce pollution loads from selected industries.

Part E.

 Resettlement 

Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection 

with the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

 Payment of Principal
(expressed in Dollars)*

February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007                                        3,295,000
February 15, 2008                                      3,405,000
August 15, 2008

2,990,000
3,085,000
3,190,000

3,520,000

February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
February 15, 2018
August 15, 2018
February 15, 2019
August 15, 2019
February 15, 2020
August 15, 2020

3,635,000
3,760,000
3,885,000
4,010,000
4,145,000
4,285,000
4,425,000
4,575,000
4,725,000
4,885,000
5,045,000
5,215,000
5,390,000
5,570,000
5,755,000
5,945,000
6,145,000
6,345,000
6,560,000
6,775,000
7,005,000
7,235,000
7,475,000
7,725,000

_____________________________

*
repaid, except as provided 
Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 

in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and 

(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 

respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 

to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $75,000,000.

2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 

3.
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 

shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 

shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)
Borrower shall furnish to the 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
shall specify.

For replenishment of the Special Account, the 

Bank requests for deposits 

Bank 

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 

Borrower shall furnish to 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 

the Bank the documents and other 

this Schedule 

requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 

shall, on behalf of the 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 

such amount 

by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 

of the Special 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 

Account for eligible 

Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 

Categories, and in 
shall have been justified by said 
other evidence.

the respective equivalent amounts, as 

documents and 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 

4.
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 

5.
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 

further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 

within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 

of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 

the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

6.
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(c)

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 

and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

