CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4560 RO

(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project)

Loan Agreement

between

ROMANIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated July 7, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4560 RO

AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2000, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A)

 the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of 

Understanding (MOU) on February 10, 2000 with other Participating 
Countries (as hereinafter defined) confirming the Participating 
Countries’ commitment to a regional trade and transport facilitation 
program (the Regional Program);

(B) 

the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 

and priority of the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project which 
forms part of the Borrower’s activities under the Regional Program; and

(C)

to assist in financing the Project and other measures 

included in the Regional Program, the Borrower intends to obtain 
assistance from another external source of finance in an amount of about 
$1,400,000 equivalent.  

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 

Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30,1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 

terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Customs Reform Strategy” means the strategy satisfactory to 

the Bank adopted by the Borrower, describing the measures to be taken 
during the period of project implementation to strengthen GCD;

(b) 

“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory 

to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the 
Project;

“GCD” means the General Customs Directorate of the MOF;

the GCD to be supported under Part C of the Project;

“ICIS” means the integrated customs information system of 

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;

the Regional Program;

“Participating Country” means each country participating in 

(g)

“Pilot Sites” means the Bacau inland customs terminal and 

the Giurgiu and Constanta Customs Stations;

(h)

“PIP” means the project implementation plan, including the 
Customs Reform Strategy and an Environmental Management Plan, adopted by 
the Borrower, setting out measures required for implementation of the 
Project;

(i)

“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, established within 

GCD and operating under the Project Manager;

(j) 

“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator 

designated by the Borrower to be responsible for coordination of the 
activities of all agencies of the Borrower, under the Project and to 
represent the Borrower in the RSC;

“Project Manager” means the head of the PMU;

accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 

(m)

“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project Preparation 

Advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of 
letters dated February 25, 2000 and March 10, 2000;

(n)

“RSC” means the Regional Steering Committee established by 

the Participating Countries under the MOU to oversee implementation of 
the Regional Program; 

(o)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 

Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(p)

“Website Coordinator” means the coordinator to be designated 

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(k)

(l)

for purposes of Part B of the Project by the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Industry and Commerce.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 

and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to seventeen million one hundred thousand dollars ($17,100,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 

Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.

(b)

Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 

of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such 

later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay the amount of the said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 

charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 

including the date of this 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 

Agreement to, but 

and including an 
the next following Interest Payment 

thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding 

Date.

Section 2.07 of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 

the London interbank 
deposits in United States dollars for value the 

offered rate for six-month 

initial Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 

first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
Period, for value the Interest 

first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 

Bank and 

expressed as a percentage per annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 

(A) three fourths of one 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 

rates, or other 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 

reference rates, for six-month deposits, 

borrowings or 

loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; 

as reasonably 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

determined by the Bank and 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 

LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 

the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through GCD and the Project 
Coordinator, acting under the general supervision of MOF, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 

this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, acting through GCD, shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the PIP and the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 

of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 

Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 

and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 

with the Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall establish 

and at all times maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 

(b)

The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall:

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements 

referred to in paragraph 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 

(a) of this Section and the 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 

acceptable to 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank 
shall be appointed within six months of the Effective Date of this 

the Bank, consistently applied, by 

who 

Agreement;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any 
months after the end of each such 

case not later than six 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so 
records and accounts and the 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 

report of such audit by 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 

accounts, and the audit thereof, 

such records and 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 

shall from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower, acting through GCD, shall:

with paragraph (a) of this 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 

Section, records and 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

received the audit report 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 

for the fiscal year in which the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 

other 

documents) evidencing such expenditures;

records; and

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 

(iv)
the annual audit 
this Section and that the report of such audit 

ensure that such records and accounts are included in 

referred to in paragraph (b) of 

contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 

statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 

and internal 

support the related withdrawals.

Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, acting through GCD, shall carry out 
a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than November 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:

(i) 

(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 

funds for the Project, both 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 

cumulatively and for the 

and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 

following 
shows separately expenditures 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 

the period covered by said report, and (B) 

financed out of the 

of the proceeds of the 
period following the period covered by said report;

report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
Loan during the six-month 

(ii)

(A) describes physical progress in Project 

implementation, both cumulatively 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 

and for the period 

the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 

and

(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 

contracts financed out of 

Project and expenditures under 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 

period covered by said report.

(b)

Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 

paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower, acting through GCD, shall 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
MOU shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or 
otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 

conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a)

the PMU has been established with staff (including a 

procurement officer, accountant, administrative and other personnel), 
functions and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and with 
resources and a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank; and

(b)

the Borrower has selected, for purposes of Section 4.01 of 

this Agreement, auditors satisfactory to the Bank.

Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date 

of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 

as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania

Telex: 

11239

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year 
first above written.

ROMANIA

By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink

Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

A.  General

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 

1.
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:

Expenditures

Category

Financed

(1)

Works 

(2)
foreign

Goods

expenditures,

local

expenditures (ex-factory

and 84% of local 

expenditures for other

procured locally

Dollars)

to be 

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

   1,300,000

  13,700,000

   % of

30%

100% of 

100% of 

cost) 

items 

100%

100%

Amount 

Section 

(3)
           and training

Consultants’ services

     400,000

(4)    Incremental Operating Costs 

     100,000

(5)
due under 

Refinancing of 

Project Preparation

2.02 (b) of this 

Advance

Agreement

(6)

Unallocated

TOTAL

     100,000

   1,500,000

  17,100,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 

currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 

currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 

(c)

the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
operating costs of the PMU incurred on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including staff salaries, and the cost of 
establishing a financial management system for the Project; and

(d) 

the term “training” means training activities (other than 

consultants’ services) to be carried out under the Project, including the 
cost of workshops and the travel cost and per diem of the trainees.

3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3), 
(4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule until 
the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement has been paid.

4.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 

on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) contracts for 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) 
contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (v) training and operating costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 

B.

Special Account

The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall open and maintain in 

1.
Dollars a special deposit account, in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 

2.
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.

3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 

4.
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:

(a)

if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 

within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this 
Agreement any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures.

The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 

5.
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.

(a)

6.
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 

outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 

refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(c)

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 

or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.

Annex to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of the Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Annex:

The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equal to $500,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $2,000,000.

2.
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 

shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(b)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.

The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 

3.
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of the 

non-tariff costs of trade and transport at the Borrower’s borders; and 
(b) the reduction of smuggling and corruption at the border crossings of 
the Borrower.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 

modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Institutional Reform of Customs Administration

Implementation of measures for reform of customs administration, 

including: (a) enhancement of the enforcement systems; (b) improvement of 
the customs information system; (c) establishment of a customs training 
organization; (d) formation of a set of productivity and workload 
indicators for each customs function and the design of a corresponding 
monitoring system; (e) formulation and application at the Pilot Sites of 
new operating methods; and (f) training of customs personnel and of 
personnel of other relevant agencies on various aspects of customs 
functions.

Part B:

Trade Facilitation Development

Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, 

training and equipment, of trade facilitation measures, including: (a) 
implementation of a regional web-site, including a mechanism to update 
it, in support of the Regional Program; and (b)  provision of technical 
assistance and training to trade personnel and other trade facilitation 
and transportation personnel. 

Part C:

ICIS

Implementation of measures in support of ICIS, including: (a) 
improvement and upgrading of software and hardware, including the control 
system of traffic movement; and (b) training of ICIS personnel. 

Part D:

Border Crossing Facilities

Carrying out improvements of border crossing facilities, including: 

(a)  expansion of the Siret border station; (b) modernization of 
Constanta customs station; (c) improvement of processing capacity at 
customs stations, including provision of necessary equipment, technical 
assistance and training; and (d) improvement and upgrading of security 
and supervision systems at customs stations. 

Part E:

Project and Regional Program Support

Provision of technical and material assistance, including auditing 

services to support the activities of PMU and RSC, and training of PMU 
staff. 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.

***

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due
Dollars)** 

October 15, 2005
April 15, 2006
October 15, 2006

             (Expressed in 

Payment of Principal

345,000
355,000
365,000

April 15, 2007
October 15, 2007
April 15, 2008
October 15, 2008
April 15, 2009
October 15, 2009
April 15, 2010
October 15, 2010
April 15, 2011
October 15, 2011
April 15, 2012
October 15, 2012
April 15, 2013
October 15, 2013
April 15, 2014
October 15, 2014
April 15, 2015
October 15, 2015
April 15, 2016
October 15, 2016
April 15, 2017
October 15, 2017
April 15, 2018
October 15, 2018
April 15, 2019
October 15, 2019
April 15, 2020

380,000
390,000
405,000
415,000
430,000
445,000
460,000
475,000
490,000
505,000
520,000
540,000
555,000
575,000
595,000
615,000
635,000
655,000
675,000
700,000
720,000
745,000
770,000
795,000
820,000
850,000
875,000

__________________________

**
repaid, except as provided 
Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 

in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 

of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section I.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 

1.
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.

The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 

2.
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 

Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.

Part C:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 

or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.

With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B of this section the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.

Prior Review

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 

Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 

provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section II.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 

consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Least-cost Selection

Services for the carrying out of audits under the Project may be 

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.

Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

Services for ICIS personnel training estimated to cost less than 

$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 

3.

Selection of Individual Consultants

Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 

paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 

the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract with firms estimated to cost 

the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of 

individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 

Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

A.

Implementation Responsibilities

The PMU, acting under the Project Manager, shall perform all 

(1)
technical responsibilities for Project Implementation, including (a) 
preparation of an annual plan for project implementation, (b)  
preparation, with the assistance of consultants, of bidding and contract 
documents under the Project, (c) the maintenance of the Project financial 
records and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof, (d) preparation 
of the quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B of 
this Schedule, and (c) supervision of progress of project implementation.

The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall insure that the PMU shall 

(2)
be maintained until the completion of the Project under terms of 
references and with staff and other measures satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall ensure: (a) that each 

(3)
annual plan for Project implementation referred to paragraph (1) above 
shall be prepared after a review between the Borrower and the Bank of 
progress in meeting the targets indicated in the PIP, including the 
targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule; and (b) that the 
inclusion of investments and other Project activities in said plan, as 
well as the procurement arrangements thereof, shall be made in agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, taking into account the requirements 
set forth in the Environmental Management Plan. 

The Borrower shall: (a) maintain its participation in the RSC; and 

(4)
(b)  inform the Bank of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect 
the implementation of the Regional Program or of measures included in the 
PIP.

(5)
The Borrower shall ensure the establishment by the Project 
Coordinator, by March 31, 2001, of mechanisms at all border agencies to 
provide the Website Coordinator with current information to be made 

available to customs users, on waiting times and opening hours at border 
crossing and customs regulations and procedures of border agencies.

B.

Reporting

The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall: (a) ensure the preparation 
by PMU for submission to the Bank, of quarterly report on the progress of 
project implementation, and (b) the consolidation of said reports into 
semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Bank and RSC. 

C.

Monitoring

The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall: 

(a) 

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
included in the PIP, including those set forth in the Annex to this 
schedule;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, by October 15 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by November 15 of each year, or such 

later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

Annex to SCHEDULE 5

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, acting 
through GCD,  shall take all necessary measures to achieve the following 
targets:

(a)

The total number of customs declarations which result in a 

physical inspection by the GCD at its pilot inland terminal does not 
exceed monthly: (i) 85% by September 30, 2000; (ii) 50% by September 30, 
2001; and (iii) 45% by September 30, 2002; 

(b)

The monthly number of trucks completing import clearance in 
less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal will exceed: (i) 10% by 
September 30, 2000; (ii) 20% by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 35% by 
September 30, 2002; 

(c) 

The number of trucks opened monthly at its pilot border 

crossing of Giurgiu will not exceed: (i) 40% by September 30, 2000; (ii) 
35% by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 30% by September 30, 2002; and

(d)

The number of containers opened monthly at its pilot border 

crossing of Constanta will not exceed: (i) 65% by September 30, 2000; 
(ii) 50% by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 40% by September 30, 2002.

