CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 7072 SK

(Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)

Loan Agreement

between 

SLOVAK REPUBLIC 

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 25, 2001

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 7072 SK

AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 2001, between SLOVAK REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 28, 
2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s enterprise and financial sector (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and

(B)

on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 

support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 

part of this Agreement:

(a)

Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:

"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 

Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";

(b)

Section 3.08 is modified to read:

"Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be made 

in the Loan Currency of such amount.  The Bank, at the request and acting 
as an agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency 
withdrawn from the Loan Account the currency or currencies of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";

(c)

Section 5.01 is modified to read:

"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 

Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions";

(d)

(e)

The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;

Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

"(c)

Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan."; and 

(f)

Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 

and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)
this Agreement;

"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(b)

"DIF" means the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Borrower established under 

the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Act No. 118/1996 Coll., dated 1996;

(c)

"Inter-Agency Commission" means the commission established by the 

Borrower to oversee the implementation of bankruptcy legislative reforms;

(d)

"IRB" means the Investment Bank of the Borrower established under the 
provisions of the Banking Act No. 21/1992, Coll., and Commercial Code No. 513/1991 
Coll., dated 1992;

(e)

"KOB" means the Consolidation Bank of the Borrower established under 

provisions of the Banking Act No. 21/1992 Coll., dated 1993;

"NBS" means the National Bank of Slovakia;

(f)

(g)

banking supervision;

"SDP" means the Supervisory Development Plan prepared by the Borrower for 

(h)

"SKA" means the Slovak Consolidation Agency established by the Borrower 

under the provisions of Act No. 513/1991 Coll., as amended, dated 1999; and

(i)

"VUB" means the Commercial Bank of the Borrower established under the 

provisions of the Banking Act No. 21/1992 Coll., and Commercial Code No. 513/1991 
Coll., dated 1992.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Euro (EUR 200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement.

Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), of 

this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program.

(b)

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 

request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.

(c)

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 

to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.

(d)

(I)

after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account shall have reached sixty million Euro (EUR 
60,000,000), including two million Euro (EUR 2,000,000) for the 
payment of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, 
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: 

with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of Program;

that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and 

that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken.  

If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may 

give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, 
the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), 
(B) and (C) above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof; and

(II)

after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account shall have reached one hundred thirty million Euro 
(EUR 130,000,000) unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:

with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program;

that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and

that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
have been taken.

If after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 

notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), (B) 
and (C) above, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

(A)

(B)

(C)

(A)

(B)

(C)

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 

percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan (EUR 2,000,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of the said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 

principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.

Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.

Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable 

semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

(i)

(ii)

a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and

(iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 

any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.

(b)

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 

is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III

Particular Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 

request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

(b)

Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

(c)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

(a)

have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 

principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(b)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(c)

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 

and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.

ARTICLE IV

Additional Event of Suspension

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Stefanovicova ul.5
810 05 Bratislava
Slovak Republic

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

121868

Facsimile:

(421-7)5249-3531

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

(202) 477-6391

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Bratislava, Slovak Republic, as of the day and year first above written.

SLOVAK REPUBLIC 

By /s/ Brigita Schmognerova

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Roger Grawe

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Excluded Expenditures

For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 

shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:

1.
from the territory of the Borrower;

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 

expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 

2.
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or credit;

expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 

3.
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

525            -

Radioactive and associated materials

112            -

121            -

122            -

667

   -

718         718.7

897         897.3

971            -

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes)

Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked

Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors

Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)

Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)

728         728.43

Tobacco processing machinery

4.
luxury consumption;

expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 

5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);

6.
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (ii) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and

7.

expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 

corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 

percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.

Installment Share

(Expressed as a %)

Payment Date

February 1, 2007
August 1, 2007
February 1, 2008
August 1, 2008
February 1, 2009
August 1, 2009
February 1, 2010
August 1, 2010
February 1, 2011
August 1, 2011
February 1, 2012
August 1, 2012
February 1, 2013
August 1, 2013
February 1, 2014
August 1, 2014
February 1, 2015
August 1, 2015

4.06%
4.21%
4.36%
4.51%
4.67%
4.84%
5.01%
5.19%
5.37%
5.56%
5.76%
5.96%
6.18%
6.39%
6.62%
6.86%
7.10%
7.35%

2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b)

Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 

repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a)

3.
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.

(b)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 

4.
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 

If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 

5.
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

SCHEDULE 3

Section I.  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (I) this Agreement

1.
initiation of alternative resolution procedures, satisfactory to the Bank.

Sale of not less than 67% of IRB’s shares to strategic investor or investors, or 

2.
VUB’s shares to private strategic investors.

Divestiture of state equity holdings in VUB, including sale of at least 67% of 

3.
conservatorship or liquidation for non-compliant banks.

Full compliance of all banks with NBS’s prudential regulations and initiation of 

4.

Enactment of a Banking Law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank.

Enactment of NBS decree, satisfactory to the Bank, directing the banks to mark 

5.
to market the value of their securities in their quarterly statements whenever the 
market value falls below the book value. 

6.
Completion of draft amendments to the Accounting Law and other relevant 
legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, introducing non-accrual of interest on assets 
past due 90 days or more.

7.

Completion of draft amendments to the Auditing Law, satisfactory to the Bank.

8.
implementation of the Banking Law.

Enactment of decrees and regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 

9.

Adoption by the DIF of a satisfactory financing plan.

10.
Act, satisfactory to the Bank.

Submission to the Borrower’s Parliament of amendments to the Deposit Insurance 

11.
Bank.

Adoption by the NBS Board of guidelines for conservatorship, satisfactory to the 

12.

Adoption by the NBS Board of a SDP, satisfactory to the Bank.

13.
approach to bank supervision.

Satisfactory progress in designing policies and procedures for a proactive 

14.

Removal of KOB’s banking license and transfer of KOB’s distressed assets to SKA.

Sale to the private sector or outsourcing to the private sector, through open 

15.
tenders, or writing-off of assets after satisfactory due diligence of not less than 30 
percent of the nominal value of SKA assets.

16.
Submission to the Borrower’s Parliament of a law, satisfactory to the Bank, 
providing for: (a) changes in the tax rules allowing proper tax treatment of debt 
write-offs and debt/equity swaps; and (b) resolution of tax and public fund arrears 
and including provisions allowing forgiveness, compromise, third party management of 
claims, and sale at a discount. 

17.
of recent amendments to the Bankruptcy Law.

Elaboration by the Inter-Agency Commission of an assessment of the effectiveness 

(a)

Completion of an insolvency report by the Inter-Agency Commission, 

18.
satisfactory to the Bank, including identification of core principles for modernizing 
the insolvency law and for strengthening institutional capacity; and (b) establishment 
of a drafting team for preparation of insolvency legislation.

19.
and trustees, satisfactory to the Bank.

Enactment of decree introducing improvements to the regulation of liquidators 

Completion of draft amendments to the laws regulating collateral, satisfactory 

Submission to the Borrower’s Parliament of a securities law, satisfactory to the 

20.
to the Bank.

21.
Bank.

22.
satisfactory to the Bank.

Submission to the Borrower’s Parliament of amendments to the Commercial Code, 

Section II. Actions Referred to in Section 2.02(d) (II) of this Agreement

Sale of at least 67% of Banka Slovakia’s shares to private strategic investors.

Full compliance of all banks with NBS’s prudential regulations.

Enactment of amendments to the Accounting Law, in substance satisfactory to the 

Enactment of amendments to the Auditing Law, in substance satisfactory to the 

Satisfactory progress in implementing the DIF financing plan.

Enactment of amendments to the Deposit Insurance Act, satisfactory to the Bank.

Completion of a study for structural reform of the DIF, satisfactory to the 

8.

Satisfactory implementation of the SDP.

(a)  Sale to the private sector or outsourcing to the private sector, through 

9.
open tenders or writing-off of assets after satisfactory due diligence of not less 
than 50 percent of the nominal value of SKA assets; (b) satisfactory progress in 
preparing transactions to dispose of a further 20 percent of the nominal value of SKA 
assets by December 31, 2002.

Enactment of a law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank, providing for: (a) 

10.
changes in the tax rules allowing proper tax treatment of debt write-offs and 
debt/equity swaps; and (b) resolution of tax and public fund arrears and including 
provisions allowing forgiveness, compromise, third party management of claims, and 
sale at a discount.

Completion of initial draft of insolvency legislation,  satisfactory to the 

12.
insolvency system, satisfactory to the Bank.

Adoption by the Borrower of a concept of a regulatory framework for an effective 

Enactment of satisfactory amendments to the laws regulating collateral.

Enactment of a Securities Law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank.

Enactment of amendments to the Commercial Code, in substance satisfactory to the 

Enactment of a law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank, strengthening the 

16.
legal, budgetary and operational autonomy of the securities and insurance market 
regulator.

3.
Bank.

4.
Bank.

1.

2.

5.

6.

7.
Bank.

11.
Bank.

13.

14.

15.
Bank.

