CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 7119 PNG

Loan Agreement

(Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)

THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated  August 12, 2002

LOAN NUMBER 7119 PNG

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated  August  12,  2002,  between  THE  INDEPENDENT  STATE  OF 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 

PAPUA  NEW  GUINEA 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

(the  Borrower) 

and 

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 

Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee  Agreements 
for  Fixed-Spread  Loans”  of  the  Bank  dated  September  1,  1999  (the  General  Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in  the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Annual Work Program” means the annual program of activities under the 

Project to be prepared by DOWT, pursuant to the provision of paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 

(b)

“Bridge Inventory and Bridge Management System” means the system for 
inventorying bridges on national and provincial roads and for management of these bridges, 
developed by Works Consultancy Services Limited of New Zealand in association with Beca 
Gure of Papua New Guinea dated July 1996, to be updated and improved under Part F.3 of the 
Project;

(c)

 “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the involuntary taking 

of land and other assets under the Project resulting in a direct economic and social adverse 
impact, whether or not said Displaced Persons must physically relocate, had or would have their: 
(i) standard of living adversely affected, whether or not the Displaced Person must move to 
another location; (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or 

grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or 

permanently, adversely affected; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely 
affected; and “Displaced Person” means any of the Displaced Persons;

(d)

“DOWT” means the Department of Works and Transport of the Borrower and 

any successor thereto;

(e)

“Employer’s Project Manager” means the consulting firm selected and retained 

by DOWT on August 23, 2001, in accordance with the Quality-and Cost-based Selection 
Procurement method set forth in the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999, for purposes of assisting DOWT in implementing, coordinating, monitoring 
and supervising the Project, pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; or, any other 
consulting firm selected and retained in the future in  accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;

(f)

“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring 

Plans” means the guidelines adopted by the Borrower on June 1, 2001, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for managing and monitoring environment and social impacts under the Project, and as such 
guidelines may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;

(g)

“Environmental Unit” means the Borrower’s unit established in DOWT on July 
18, 2001, responsible for managing and monitoring environment and social practices for works 
carried out by DOWT, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(h)

“Executing Agency Trust Account” means the Borrower’s account established 

pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;

(i)

“Fiscal Year” and the acronym “FY” mean the twelve (12)-month period 

corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period commences on January 1 
and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term “Fiscal Years” means, collectively, 
each of said Fiscal Year;

(j)

“Imprest Accounts” means the Participating Provinces’ accounts established 

pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and “Imprest Account” means any of said Accounts;

(k)

(l)

“Kina” and the acronym “K” mean the currency of the Borrower;

“Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework” means the framework 

satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower’s National Executive Council on May 10, 
2002, and referred to in paragraph 7 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, which sets out the 
principles and procedures governing land acquisition from and compensation to Displaced 
Persons, as well as administrative, reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said framework, as said framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank;

(m)

 “Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum entered into between 

the Borrower and a Participating Province, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 8 of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, as such Memorandum may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; 

(n)

“Participating Provinces” means, collectively, the Borrower’s provinces of 
Central, East New Britain, Manus, Morobe, Oro and West New Britain; and “Participating 
Province” means singularly any one of the said Provinces;

(o)

“Provincial Annual Work Program” means each of the annual program of 

activities under Parts B and D of the Project prepared by each Participating Province for their 
Respective Part of the Project, and approved by DOWT pursuant to paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement;

(p)

“Provincial Employer’s Project Manager” means the Employer’s Project 

Manager’s staff assigned to the Participating Provinces of Central, East New Britain and Manus, 
Morobe, Oro, and West New Britain, to assist in the implementation, coordination, monitoring 
and supervision of their Respective Part of the Project pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;

(q)

“Provincial Executing Agency Trust Accounts” means the Participating 

Provinces’ account established pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, and “Provincial 
Executing Agency Trust Account” means any one of said Accounts; 

(r)

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 

Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 

(s)

“Respective Part of the Project” means, for each Project Province, the activities 

to be carried out under the Project within said Project Province;

(t)

“Road Asset Management System” means the DWOT system for planning 

maintenance of national and  provincial roads adopted in May 2001 and October 2001, 
respectively; and

(u)
Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty million Dollars ($40,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.

Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into,  and payments  out of,  the Special  Account shall be  made in  accordance with  the 
provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 

Section  2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  December  31,  2006,  or  such  later  date  as  the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  equal  to:  (i)  eighty  five 
one-hundredths  of  one  per  cent  (0.85%)  per  annum  from  the  date  on  which  such  charge 
commences  to  accrue  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  3.02  of  the  General 
Conditions  to  but  not  including  the  fourth  anniversary  of  such  date;  and  (ii)  seventy  five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.

Section  2.06.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the  Borrower  shall,  during  the  Conversion  Period,  pay  interest  on  such  amount  in  accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

Section  2.07.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable  semiannually  in  arrears  on 

January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 

with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

(i)

(ii)

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency;

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the  Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed  Rate, or 
vice versa; and

of the 

(iii)

the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 

of the 
establishment of 
said Variable Rate.

principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 

(b)

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted by  the Bank  shall be considered  a “Conversion”, as  defined in  Section 2.01(7) of  the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end shall carry out: (i) Parts A, C, E, F.3 and F.4 of the Project through DOWT; (ii) 
Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project through its Department of Trade and Industry; and (iii) Parts B 
and  D  of  the  Project through  the  Participating  Provinces,  all  with  due  diligence and  efficiency 
and  in  conformity  with  sound  administrative,  economic,  engineering,  financial  and  technical 
practices,  and  social  and  environmental  standards  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 

(b)

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  and 
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the 
Project  in  accordance  with  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth  in  Schedule  5  to  this 
Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works, goods, 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 

this Agreement, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

open  and  thereafter  maintain,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  an  Executing 
Agency  Trust  Account  in  Kina  in  a  commercial  bank,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  on terms  and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment, for purposes of channeling in a timely manner the Borrower’s funding for the costs 
of works, goods and services required for the carrying out of Parts A, C, E and F of the Project,  
not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 

(b)

make an initial deposit into such account in the amount of K5,000,000; and

(c)

deposit into the Executing Agency Trust Account, not later than the last day of 
each  calendar  quarter,  amounts  sufficient  to  cover  counterpart  funding  for  estimated 

disbursements under Parts A, C, E and F of the Project for the succeeding three-month period.

Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 

this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through each Participating Province: 

(a)

open  and  thereafter  maintain,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  a  Provincial 
Executing Agency Trust Account in Kina in the name of the respective Participating Province, 
each in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank,  including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  seizure  and  attachment,  for  purposes  of 
channeling  in  a  timely  manner  each  Participating  Provinces’  funding  for  the  costs  of  works, 
goods and services required for the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project not financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; 

(b)

make an initial deposit into each such account as follows: 

(i)

(ii)

for the Central Province in the amount of K200,000; 

for the East New Britain Province in the amount of K400,000;

(iii)

for the Manus Province in the amount of K140,000;

(iv)

for the Morobe Province in the amount of K270,000;

(v)

for the Oro Province in the amount of K140,000; and

(vi)

for the West New Britain Province in the amount of K200,000.

(c)

and,  thereafter,  deposit  into  each  such  Provincial  Executing  Agency  Trust 
Account,  not  later  than  June  30  and  December  31  of  each  calendar  year,  commencing  on 
December 31, 2002, amounts sufficient to cover counterpart funding for estimated disbursements 
under the Respective Parts of the Project on account of the relevant Participating Province for the 
succeeding six-month period.

Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of 

this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through each Participating Province: 

(a)

open and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, an Imprest Account 
in  Kina  in  the  name  of  the  respective  Participating  Province,  each  in  a  commercial  bank, 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, for purposes of channeling in a timely manner 
each  Participating  Provinces’  funding  for  the  costs  of  works  for  routine  maintenance  of 
provincial  roads  procured  under  paragraph  4  of  Part  C  of  Section  I  of  Schedule  4  to  this 
Agreement required for the carrying out of the respective Part B.1 of the Project not financed out 

of the proceeds of the Loan; 

(b)

make an initial deposit into each such account as follows: 

(i)

(ii)

for the Central Province in the amount of K100,000; 

for the East New Britain Province in the amount of K200,000;

(iii)

for the Manus Province in the amount of K60,000;

(iv)

for the Morobe Province in the amount of K130,000;

(v)

for the Oro Province in the amount of K60,000; and

(vi)

for the West New Britain Province in the amount of K100,000.

(c)

and,  thereafter,  deposit  into  each  such  Imprest  Account,  not  later  than  June  30 
and December 31 of each calendar year, commencing on December 31, 2002, amounts sufficient 
to  cover  counterpart  funding  for  estimated  disbursements  for  the  costs  of  works  for  routine 
maintenance of provincial roads procured under paragraph 4 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 
to  this  Agreement  required  for  the  carrying  out  by  the  relevant  Participating  Province  its 
respective part of Part B.1 of the Project for the succeeding six-month period.

Section  3.06.  For  the  purposes  of  Section  9.07  of  the  General  Conditions  and  without 

limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare,  on  the  basis  of  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this  purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  a  plan  designed  to  ensure  the  continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 

on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  records  and 
accounts  adequate  to  reflect  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices  the  operations, 
resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the  departments  or  agencies  of  the 
Borrower, including the Participating Provinces, responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.

(b) 

The Borrower shall:

(i)

(A)

(B) 

(C)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  including  those  for  the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal 
year  audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles 
consistently  applied,  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the 
Bank; 

have  the  internal  control  system  for  the  management  of  the 
Borrower’s  Project  accounts  established  for  the  carrying  out  of 
the Project, including those for DOWT, Department of Trade and 
Industry, and each of the Participating Provinces, reviewed every 
six  months  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank, 
furnish  to  the  Bank  the  report  of  such  review  by  not  later  than 
two  months  after  its  completion,  and  thereafter  take  corrective 
actions, if required, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank; and

for purposes of sub-paragraphs (A) and (B) above, the Borrower 
shall,  by  December  31,  2002,  employ  an  independent  auditor, 
with qualifications and experience, terms of reference and terms 
and conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank, selected in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  5.1  through  5.3  of 
the  “Guidelines:    Selection  and  Employment  of  Consultants  by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. 

furnish to  the Bank as  soon as available,  but in any case  not later than 
three (3) months after the end of each such year, commencing March 31, 
2003, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts  and  the  audit  thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time 
reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were  made  on  the  basis  of  Project  Management  Reports  or  statements  of  expenditure,  the 
Borrower shall:

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,  bills,  receipts  and 

(ii)

(iii)

(i)

(ii)

was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,  bills,  receipts  and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

(iii)

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are  included  in  the  annual  audit 
referred  to  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the  report  of  such 
audit  contains  a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors  as  to  whether  the 
Project  Management  Reports  or  statements  of  expenditure  submitted 
during  such  fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and  internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.

Section  4.02.    (a)  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  4.01  of  this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:

(i)

(A)

sets  forth  actual  sources  and  applications  of  funds  for  the 
Project,  both  cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project  for  the  six-month  period  following  the  period  covered 
by said report, and 

(B)

shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the  Loan  during  the  period  covered  by  said  report  and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;

(ii)

(A)

describes  physical  progress  in  Project  implementation,  both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 

(B)

explains  variances  between  the  actual  and  previously  forecast 
implementation targets; and

(iii)

sets forth  the status  of procurement under  the Project and  expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.

(b)

Upon  the  completion  of  the  action  plan  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  45  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter  a  Project 
Management Report for such period.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

Section  5.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional  conditions  to  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the  General 
Conditions: 

(a)

the  Executing  Agency  Trust  Account  has  been  established  in  accordance  with 

Section 3.03 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;

(b)

a  Provincial  Executing  Agency  Trust  Account  has  been  established  in  each 

Participating Province in accordance with Section 3.04 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;

(c)

an  Imprest  Account  has  been  established  in  each  Participating  Province  in 

accordance with Section 3.05 (a) and (b) of this Agreement;

(d)

the Borrower has entered into arrangements with the Employer’s Project 

Manager pursuant to paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(e)

the Borrower has adopted a financial management system for the Project within 

DOWT and each Participating Province, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 

(f)

the Borrower has furnished  evidence of the actions taken, and  a time-bound 

action plan of the outstanding actions, if any, to be taken, all satisfactory to the Bank, to 
implement the recommendations of the Auditor-General’s Office special review of the internal 
control system for the operations of DOWT, dated July 26, 2001, in accordance with paragraph 4 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

(g)

the  Memorandum  of  Agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  each  Participating 

Province has been entered into in accordance with paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section  5.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional  matters,  within  the  meaning  of 
Section  12.02(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be 
furnished to the Bank:

(a)

the  Land  Acquisition  and  Compensation  Framework  has  been  duly  adopted  by 
the Borrower’s National Executive Council and is legally binding upon the Borrower and each 
Participating Province in accordance with their respective terms; 

(b)

the Environmental  and Social Impact Assessment  Management and Monitoring 
Plans has been duly adopted by the Borrower on June 1, 2001, and is legally binding upon the 

Borrower and each Participating Province in accordance with their respective terms; and 

(c)

the  Memorandum  of  Agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  each  Participating 
Province has  been duly  authorized or ratified  by the Borrower  and each  Participating Province 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and each Participating Province in accordance with its 
terms. 

Section  5.03.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby 

specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 

the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 

the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Department of Finance  
Vulupindi Haus 4th floor
P.O. Box 710
Waigani, 131 NCD
Papua New Guinea

Cable address: 

Telex:

Facsimile:

NE 22218

(675) 3288213

FINANCE
Boroko 

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
  64145 (MCI)

(202) 477-6391

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly  authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA 

By /s/ Graham Michaels

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Emmanuel Y. Jimenez

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
1.
the  Loan,  the  allocation  of  the  amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

(1)

Civil works:

(a) under Part A.1
     of the Project

(b) under Part A.2
     of the Project

(c) under Part B.1
     of the Project

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollars)

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

2,180,000

37%

11,660,000

70%

1,100,000

37%

(d) under Part B.2

2,380,000

70%

      of the Project

(e) under Part C.1
     of the Project

(f) under Part C.2
     of the Project

(g) under Part D.1
      of the Project

(h) under Part D.2
    of the Project

570,000

70%

3,370,000

70%

430,000

70%

2,910,000

70%

(2)

Goods under Parts C.3,
E.1 and E.2
of the Project

1,900,000

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 65% 
of local expenditures for
other items procured locally

100,000

 90% 

(3)

Training, workshops, 
seminars and conferences
under Parts F.1 and
F.2 of the Project

(4)

Consultants’ 
services:

(a) under Part E.3
   of the Project

(b) under Parts E.4,
     F.3 and F.4 of
     the Project

(c) for  training
                under Parts F.1 and 

     F.2 of the Project

2,710,000

2,850,000

83% for foreign
firms and 75% for
local firms

100% for foreign
firms and 75% for 
local firms

970,000

70% for individuals

(d) under Part E.6 of 
      the Project

500,000

(e) for audits of Project accounts

170,000

100% for foreign
firms, 75% for
local firms, and
70% for individuals

100% for foreign
firms, 75% for
local firms, and
70% for individuals

(5)

Incremental operating costs 

410,000

80%

(6)

Fee

400,000

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

(7)

Unallocated

TOTAL

5,390,000

40,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the  term  “foreign  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of  any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the  term  “local  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of  the 

Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and

(c)

the  term  “incremental  operating  costs”  means  reasonable  expenditures  directly 
related  to  the  Project,  incurred  by  the  Borrower  (which  expenditures  would  not  have  been 
incurred  absent  the  Project),  including  expenditures  for  the  cost  of  per  diem  and  local 
transportation costs of Project staff, but excluding salaries.

3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect  of  payments  made  for  expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $900,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but on or after September 1, 2001.

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures  for:  (a)  works  under  contracts  costing  less  than 
$300,000  equivalent  per  contract;  (b)  goods  under  contracts  costing  less  than  $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) training, workshops, seminars and conferences; (d) contracts for the 
employment  of  consulting  firms  valued  at  less  than  $100,000  equivalent  per  contract;  (e) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants valued at less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract;  and  (f)  incremental  operating  costs;  all  under  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in promoting an efficient, safe and 
reliable  roads  transport  system  in  the  Participating  Provinces  through:  (a)  the  improvement  of 

reliable  roads  transport  system  in  the  Participating  Provinces  through:  (a)  the  improvement  of 
selected road segments; (b) strengthening strategic planning and management of the road sector; 
and  (c)  strengthening  the  institutional  arrangements  for  road  maintenance,  including  private 
sector participation. 

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 

Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Maintenance and Restoration of National Roads

Carrying  out  of  routine  maintenance  and  restoration  works  on  selected  national  road 

segments, including:

annual routine maintenance on about 2,200 kilometers of national roads; and

restoration of about 440 kilometers of national roads.

Part B: Maintenance and Restoration of Provincial Roads

Carrying  out  of  routine  maintenance  and  restoration  works  on  selected  provincial  road 

segments, including:

annual routine maintenance on about 900 kilometers of provincial roads; and

restoration of about 200 kilometers of provincial roads.

Part C: Maintenance, Restoration and Replacement of National Bridges

Carrying  out  of  routine  maintenance,  restoration  and  replacement  works  on  selected 

national bridges, and provision of emergency bridges and bridge parts, including:

maintenance and restoration of about 35 bridges;

replacement of about 9 bridges; and

acquisition  of  about  6  bailey-type  bridges  for  emergency  needs,  bridge  decking  and 

3.
bridge parts for maintenance of bridges.

Part D: Maintenance, Restoration and Replacement of Provincial Bridges

Carrying  out  of  routine  maintenance,  restoration  and  replacement  works  on  selected 

1.

2.

1.

2.

1.

2.

maintenance and restoration of about 25 bridges; and

provincial bridges, including:

1.

2.

replacement of about 6 bridges.

Part E: Implementation Support

Provision  of  laboratory  equipment  and  traffic  counting  equipment  for  DOWT  and 

1.
Provincial Works Manager Offices.

Provision  of  environmental  monitoring  equipment  to  DOWT,  and  Provincial  Works 

2.
Manager Offices and Provincial Administrations in each Participating Province.

Strengthening  the  Employer’s  Project  Manager  in  the  carrying  out  of  Project 

3.
management, including the provision of technical assistance.

4.
Strengthening  the  capacity  of  DOWT  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  design  of  roads  to  be 
restored  and  bridges  to  be  replaced,  and  of  Project  supervision,  including  the  provision  of 
technical assistance. 

Provision of accounting and auditing services including an internal control system for the 

5.
management of DOWT and the Participating Provinces’ Project accounts. 

6.
Strengthening  the  financial  management  and  operational  capacity  of  DOWT,  including 
preparation and implementation of a time-bound action plan to address the weaknesses identified 
in  the  special  review  of  the  Auditor-General’s  Office,  dated  July  26,  2001,    including  the 
provision of technical assistance.

Part F: Road Sector Support

1.
Provision  of  technical  assistance  and  training  on  management,  preparation  of  bids, 
costing,  quality  control,  and  site  planning  for  small  and  medium-sized  contractors  involved  in 
road maintenance.

Strengthening the  capacity of the  DOWT and provincial  administration agencies in the 
2.
carrying out of works for road maintenance, including the provision of technical assistance and 
training.

Updating  and  improving  the  Bridge  Inventory  and  Bridge  Management  System  of 

3.
national and provincial roads, including the provision of technical assistance to DOWT.

4.

Carrying out of the social and economic impact assessments of roads and bridges under 

Carrying out of the social and economic impact assessments of roads and bridges under 

4.
the Project, including the provision of technical assistance.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the  
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.

Installment Share

(Expressed as a %)

Payment Date

15-Jan-2008
15-Jul-2008
15-Jan-2009
15-Jul-2009
15-Jan-2010
15-Jul-2010
15-Jan-2011
15-Jul-2011
15-Jan-2012
15-Jul-2012
15-Jan-2013
15-Jul-2013
15-Jan-2014
15-Jul-2014
15-Jan-2015
15-Jul-2015
15-Jan-2016
15-Jul-2016
15-Jan-2017
15-Jul-2017
15-Jan-2018
15-Jul-2018
15-Jan-2019
15-Jul-2019
15-Jan-2020
15-Jul-2020

1.94%
2.00%
2.08%
2.15%
2.22%
2.30%
2.38%
2.46%
2.55%
2.64%
2.73%
2.83%
2.93%
3.03%
3.14%
3.25%
3.36%
3.48%
3.60%
3.72%
3.85%
3.99%
4.13%
4.27%
4.42%
4.58%

15-Jan-2021
15-Jul-2021
15-Jan-2022
15-July-2022

4.74%
4.90%
5.08%
5.25%

2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b)

Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of 
which  shall  be  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of  which  shall  be  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment 
Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date,  such  repayment  amounts  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.

(a)

3.
Withdrawals  made  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal  Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date,  be treated  as withdrawn and  outstanding on the  second Principal  Payment Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.

(b)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 

4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  said  Approved  Currency  that  shall  be  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  said 
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply 
separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate 

separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B: International Competitive Bidding

1.
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  C  of  this  Section,  goods  and  works  shall  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  II  of  the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 

2.
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:

(a)

Grouping of contracts

To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) civil works for national and provincial roads 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each; (ii) civil 
works  for  bridge  replacement  shall  be  grouped  in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  $500,000 
equivalent  or  more  each,  and  (iii)  contracts  for  goods,  including  bailey-type  bridges,  shall  be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.

(b)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.54  and  2.55  of  the  Guidelines  and  Appendix  2  thereto 

shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

(a)

Civil  works  for  national  and  provincial  works  estimated  to  cost  less  than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, and civil works for bridge replacement estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, all up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $29,300,000 

than $500,000 equivalent per contract, all up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $29,300,000 

equivalent,  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

(b)

The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under this 

paragraph 1, Part C, shall be those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 4 required to comply 
with the provisions of the Guidelines.

2.

International Shopping

Goods,  excluding  bailey-type  bridges,  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000  equivalent 
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $200,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.

Force Account

Civil works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing 
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,100,000, 
equivalent may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance 
with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 

4.

Community Participation

Civil  works  required  for  roads  routine  maintenance  under  Parts  A.1  and  B.1  of  the 
Project estimated to cost less than $8,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to  exceed  $6,100,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, under procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 

5.

Procurement of Small Works

Works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $54,000  equivalent  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate 
amount  not  to  exceed  $5,200,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured  under  lump-sum,  fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of  the  works,  including  basic  specifications,  the  required  completion  date,  a  basic  form  of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior  to  the  issuance  of  any  invitations  to  bid  for  contracts,  the  proposed  procurement 

Prior  to  the  issuance  of  any  invitations  to  bid  for  contracts,  the  proposed  procurement 

plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines.  Procurement  of  all  goods  and 
works  shall  be  undertaken  in  accordance  with  such  procurement  plan  as  shall  have  been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With  respect  to  each  contract  for:  (i)  goods  estimated  to  cost  $100,000 
equivalent or  more;  (ii)  works estimated to  cost the equivalent of  $300,000 or more;   (iii) the 
first contract in each Participating Province for civil works for national and provincial roads and 
bridge maintenance works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent; the first contract for 
roads  routine  maintenance  works  in  each  Participating  Province  procured  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  4  of  Part  C  of  this  Section;  and  (v)  the  first  contract  for  roads  routine  maintenance 
works in each Participating Province procured in accordance with paragraph 5 of Part C of this 
Section;  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall 
apply.

(b)

With  respect  to  each  contract  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000 
equivalent  and  to  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  referred  to  in  paragraph  2  of 
Part C of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:

(i)

(ii)

prior  to  the  selection  of  any  supplier/execution  of  any  contract  under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;

prior  to  the  execution  of  any  contract  procured  under  shopping 
procedures,  the  Borrower  shall  provide  to  the  Bank  a  copy  of  the 
specifications and the draft contract; and

(iii)

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 

forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A: General

Consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Introduction  and  Section  IV  of  the  “Guidelines:    Selection  and  Employment  of  Consultants  by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 

World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 

and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.

Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  C  of  this  Section,  consultants’  services  shall  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  II  of  the 
Consultant  Guidelines,  paragraph  3  of  Appendix  1  thereto,  Appendix  2  thereto,  and  the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.

Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

Individual Consultants

Services under Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,300,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  to  individual  consultants  in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Consultant 
Guidelines.    Selection  of  all consultants’  services  shall  be  undertaken  in  accordance  with such 
selection  plan  as  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  with  the  provisions  of  said 
paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

(b)

With  respect  to  each  contract  for  the  employment  of  individual  consultants 
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $50,000  or  more,  the  qualifications,  experience,  terms  of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 

forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

National Competitive Bidding

The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding under paragraph 1 of 
Part C of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall be those set forth in Section II of 
the ”Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in  January  1995  and  revised  January  and  August  1996,  September  1997  and  January  1999 
(the Guidelines), except as provided in the following paragraphs:

3.

Post Review

1.

General

2.

Advertising

Board.

(a)

Invitations to bid may be issued by the Borrower’s Central Supply and Tenders 

(b)

Invitations  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  at  least  one  widely  circulated  national 
daily newspaper and copies of said invitations shall be sent to the representatives of foreign 
countries (e.g. embassies) in Port Moresby.

3.

Award of Contracts

The  Borrower’s  Central  Supply  and  Tenders  Board  shall  issue  notice  of  award  of 

contracts using its own standard forms. 

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Project Management

1.
The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  retain,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the  services  of  the 
Employer’s  Project  Manager,  under  terms  of  references,  and  headed  by  a  qualified  and 
experienced  manager,  assigned  with  qualified  staff  in  adequate  numbers,  including  at  least  an 
accountant  with    financial  management  skills,  all  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and  (b)  enter  into 
arrangements with the Employer’s Project Manager, satisfactory to the Bank, to assign qualified 
and experienced staff in adequate numbers, to each Participating Province Department of Works 
and Transport’s Provincial Offices with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

2.
The  Borrower  shall  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  an  Environmental  Unit 
within DOWT headed by a qualified and experienced manager and assigned with qualified staff 
in adequate numbers, including at least one qualified environmental specialist, and provided with 
such  powers,  responsibilities  and  funding  as  shall  be  required  to  coordinate  and  monitor 
environmental and social works related to DOWT in the carrying out of the Project. 

The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a 
3.
financial  management  system  for  the  Project  within  DOWT  and  each  Participating  Province, 
acceptable to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall prepare and adopt a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
4.
to implement any outstanding actions needed to be taken to implement the recommendations of 
the Auditor-General’s Office special review of the internal control system for the operations of 
DOWT, dated July 26, 2001, and, thereafter, implement such time-bound action plan in a manner 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

5.
The  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  waive  or  abrogate  the  provisions  of  the  Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring Plans and of the Land Acquisition 
and Compensation Framework without the prior concurrence of the Bank.

Project Implementation

(a)

6.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower, through DWOT, shall: (i) by June 30 
in each calendar year, commencing on June 30, 2003, until completion of the Project, furnish to 
the Bank, for its approval, the draft Annual Work Program for the immediately following year; 
(ii) by December 31 in each calendar year, commencing on December 31, 2003, adopt said 
Annual Work Program, as so approved; and (iii) thereafter, implement and cause each 
Participating Province to implement, as the case may be, said Annual Work Program in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the Annual Work Program for the calendar year 
January 1 to December 31, 2003, shall be prepared and furnished to the Bank for its approval by 
no later than December 15, 2002, and thereafter the Borrower shall adopt and implement and 
cause each Participating Province to implement, as the case may be, said Annual Work Program 
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

(b)

For purposes of developing the Annual Work Program for Parts B and D of the 
Project, the Borrower shall, by May 31 in each calendar year, commencing on May 31, 2003, and 
until  completion  of  the  Project,  cause  each  Participating  Province  to  furnish  to  the  Borrower, 
their respective draft Provincial Annual Work Program for the immediately following year, for 
their  inclusion  in  the  draft  Annual  Work  Program  referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  (i)  of  this 
paragraph; provided, however, that for the Annual Work Program for the calendar year January 1 
to  December  31,  2003,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Participating  Provinces  to  furnish  to  the 
Borrower  by  no  later  than  November  15,  2002,  for  their  inclusion  in  the  draft  Annual  Work 
Program referred to in the proviso in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 6 their respective draft 
Provincial Annual Work Program for the period January 1 to December 31, 2003.

7.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Annual Work Program shall be prepared in 

7.

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Annual Work Program shall be prepared in 

accordance with the following criteria: 

(a)

civil  works  for  roads  and  bridges  are  included  in  the  Road  Asset  Management 
System  and  the  Bridge  Inventory  and  Bridge  Management  System,  respectively,  with  updated 
data,  as  required,  on  the  condition  of  the  roads  and  bridges,  traffic  volumes  on  the  roads  and 
bridges and cost estimates; 

(b)

except for road routine maintenance works, the works for roads and bridges have 
an  estimated economic  rate  of return  of twelve  percent  (12%) or  more,  calculated in  a manner 
acceptable  to  the  Bank;  works  for  national  and  provincial  roads  or  segments  of  national  and 
provincial roads are located in each of the Participating Province, and will be carried out within 
the existing rights-of-way. In the event that taking of land is required to implement such works, 
including the replacement of bridges, such taking shall not exceed 20% of the total land area of 
the  Displaced Person,  and the  taking shall  not  entail the  physical relocation  of people  nor   the 
destruction of houses and structures thereon;

(c)

necessary counterpart funding from the Borrower and each Participating 
Province for their respective proposed works, goods and services is available in amounts 
acceptable to the Bank;

(d)

appropriate  engineering,  social  and  environmental  practices  and  standards  that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Displaced Persons 
and mitigate any environmental harm have been considered in the design of the proposed works 
in  accordance  with  the  Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment  Management  and 
Monitoring Plans;

(e)

the provisions of the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework have been 
complied with, and, where the taking of land or assets  is unavoidable under proposed works, a 
land  acquisition  and  compensation  action  plan  acceptable  to  the  Bank  has  been  prepared  in 
accordance  with  the  Land  Acquisition  and  Compensation  Framework  and  in  consultation  with 
Displaced  Persons  and  compensation  has  been  made  available  to  the  Displaced  Persons  in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework, and prior to the signing of 
the contract for the carrying out of said works; and

(f)

an  environmental  impact  assessment  has  been  completed  and  recommended 
measures  adopted  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Environmental  and  Social  Impact 
Assessment Management and Monitoring Plans.

8.

For purposes of the carrying out of Parts B and D of the Project, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

enter  into  a  Memorandum  of  Agreement  with  each  of  the  Participating 

Provinces, acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the following: 

(i)

that the Participating Provinces shall carry out the activities under Parts 
B and D of the Project in accordance with the Environmental and Social 

B and D of the Project in accordance with the Environmental and Social 

Impact Assessment Management and Monitoring Plans;

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

that the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts 
B and D of the Project are provided promptly; 

that the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services required 
for Parts B and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;

that the goods and services under Parts B and D of the Project financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan are exclusively used for the purposes of 
Parts B and D of the Project;

that  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  are  allowed  to  inspect,  from  time  to 
time, the goods, works and services under Parts B and D of the Project, 
including all records and documents relating thereto;

that  the  Borrower  is  promptly  informed  of  any  condition  which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and D of 
the Project and that appropriate corrective measures are taken;

that, from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower or the Bank, 
the Participating Province shall exchange views with the  Borrower and 
the Bank regarding progress achieved in carrying out  Parts B and D of 
the Project; 

(viii)

that the Participating Province shall furnish to the Borrower and the 
information and documents related to Parts B and D of the 

reasonably be requested and further agree to obtain such 
documents as may be required by the Borrower 

monitoring, recording and 

Bank all such 
Project as may 
information and 
to fulfill its supervision, 
reporting obligations to the Bank; and

(ix)

that the Participating Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 

records 
accounting practices 
respect of Parts B and D of the  
of the Participating Province, responsible 
Parts B and D of the Project or any part thereof; and take 
action as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, in particular those regarding auditing of 

the operations, resources and expenditures in 

Project of the departments or agencies 
for the carrying out of 

all such 

Project accounts; and

(b)

exercise its rights under each Memorandum of Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, 

protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, 

and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive  any  of  the  Memorandum  of  Agreement  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  each 
Participating Province or any provision thereof.

9.
For purposes of carrying out Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project, respectively, the Borrower 
shall, by December 31, 2002, employ and retain in its Department of Trade and Industry, until 
completion  of  the  Project:  (a)  the  services  of  five  qualified  and  experienced  individual 
consultants  to  carry  out  Part  F.1  of  the  Project;  and  (b)  a  qualified  and  experienced  Training 
Support  Manager  to  carry  out  Part  F.2  of  the  Project;  all  with  qualifications  and  experience, 
terms of reference and terms and conditions of employment, acceptable to the Bank, and selected 
in accordance  with the  provisions of paragraphs  5.1 through 5.3  of the  “Guidelines:  Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”  published by the Bank in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.

In  carrying  out  Parts  F.1  and  F.2  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31, 
10.
2002,  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  a  Steering  Committee 
headed  by  a  qualified  staff  from  the  Borrower’s  Department  of  Trade  and  Industry  at  First 
Assistant  Secretary  level,  with  representatives  from  the  Borrower’s  Department  of  National 
Planning  and  Monitoring,  National  Training  Council,  and  DOWT,  and  provided  with  such 
powers, responsibilities and funding as shall be required to review and monitor training programs 
under Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project. 

11.
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and  comments,  by June  30,  2003,  a  draft  Financial  Instructions  that 
shall  supersede  the  Financial  Instructions  related  to  the  Public  Finances  Management  Act  of 
1986  (PFMA-1986)  and  govern  the  implementation  of  the  Borrower's  Public  Finances 
Management  Act  of  1995  (PFMA-1995)  relating  to  the  procurement  of  goods,  works  and 
services by the Borrower's public service, including a manual for the carrying out of procurement 
under  the  Borrower's  departments  and  agencies,  standard  bidding  documents,  procedures  for 
transparency in bidding and award of contracts, including the requirement to open bids in public 
and to notify the bidders as to contract award, a timely and effective bid protest procedure, and 
prohibition of negotiation with bidders on the bids.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting

12.

The Borrower shall: 

(a)

maintain policies  and procedures adequate  to enable it  to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the 
Bank, by March 31 of each calendar year, commencing March 31, 2004, a report integrating the 
results  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 

out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 

date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by June 30 of each calendar year, commencing June 30, 
2004, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section,  and,  thereafter,  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the 
Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof,  based  on  the  conclusions  and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

13.
The  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31,  2004,  furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its  review  and 
comments, a report integrating the results of the activities under Part F.3 of the Project, including 
recommended actions to be taken to make said results sustainable in the future, and finalize such 
report taking into consideration the comments of the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31,  2005,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its 
14.
review and comments a report integrating the results of the activities performed under Parts F.1 
and F.2 of the Project pursuant to paragraph 10 of this Schedule, including an action plan for the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  such  report,  and,  thereafter,  finalize  such  report 
taking into consideration the comments of the Bank.

15.
The  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31,  2005,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its 
review and comments a report integrating the results of the activities performed under Part F.4 of 
the  Project,  and,  thereafter,  finalize  such  report  taking  into  consideration  the  comments  of  the 
Bank. 

SCHEDULE 6

Performance Indicators 

A

B

Project Objectives/Outputs

Performance 
Indicator

Indicator 
Type

200
2

B
as
eli
ne

Mediu
m 
Term 
2004
25

200
5

Comp
lete 
2006

Full 
Impac
t 2008

Outcome

20

21

40

50

60

Restore satisfactory physical 
conditions and safety to parts of 
national and provincial roads 
based on priority needs.

Percentage of national 
roads in fair or better 
conditions.

Outcome

10

12

14

16

18

20

Strengthen strategic sector 
planning and management of road  
assets.

Impact

30

32

40

50

60

70

Impact

70

85

95

100

100

100

1

2

1

2

Percentage of 
provincial roads in 
fair or better 
conditions.
Percentage of 
expenditures on 
maintenance and 
preservation.

Percentage of 
budgeted work 
program based on 
RAMS.

C

Strengthen institutional 
arrangements for road 
maintenance.

Impact

50

60

80

90

100

100

Timelines:  Number 
of providence who 
submit Annual Work 
Programs in each 
year.

Number of unified 
PWM/Provincial 
maintenance.

1

2

3

Impact

2

2

3

3

0

2

1

5

Number trained

Output

10

15

25

30

Project Objectives/Outputs

Performance 
Indicator

Indicator 
Type

200
2

B
as
eli
ne

Mediu
m 
Term 
2004
75

200
5

Comp
lete 
2006

Full 
Impac
t 2008

Impact

40

70

80

85

90

D

Increase private sector contracting 
of road maintenance works.

1

E

Physical Outputs.

Output

0

20

200

320

400

700

Percent of 
maintenance 
expenditure             
bid competitively in 
the Project provinces.

Cumulative 
Kilometers of national 
roads receiving 
specific maintenance 
or restoration 
cumulative.

Kilometers of 
provincial roads 
receiving specific 
maintenance or 
restoration.

1

2

3

Output

20

100

180

200

250

0

0

Cumulative number of 
bridges replaced.

Output

0

5

12

17

22

SCHEDULE 7

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 

table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to 
be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the  Authorized  Allocation  shall  be  limited  to  an  amount  equivalent  to  $1,000,000  until  the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special  commitments  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 

2.
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
3.
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 

Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 

and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been  shown  by  said  documents  and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the 
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by  said 
documents and other evidence.

4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  shall  not  be 

5.
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

(a)

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further  withdrawals 
should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this 
Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports  required  to  be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Accounts;

(c)

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  notified  the  Borrower  of  its  intention  to 
suspend  in  whole  or  in  part  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d)

once  the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible 
Categories of the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions of the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.

(a)

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  payment  out  of  the 
6.
Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure  or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so  request, 

Bank  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so  request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the 
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  such  outstanding 
amount.

(c)

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or  any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of  this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

