CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 7118 PH

Loan Agreement

(Second Social Expenditure Management Project)

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 12, 2002

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 7118 PH

AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

and 

(the  Borrower) 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 

project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 

Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee  Agreements 
for  Fixed-Spread  Loans”  of  the  Bank  dated  September  1,  1999  (the  General  Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in  the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have the following meanings: 

(a)
successor thereto;

 “Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Borrower’s central bank and any 

“Barangay” means a political sub-division within a city or a municipality;

“Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services” and “CIDSS” mean 

the Borrower’s on-going program of support to the poorest Barangays, established by Executive 
Order 443 of 1997,  for the carrying out of community-based projects;

(d)

“CIDSS Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of 

theproceeds of the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees to finance the cost of a 
Sub-project under Part A.3 of the Project;

“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, and any 

(f)

“DEPED” means the Borrower’s Department of Education, and any successor 

“DOH” means the Borrower’s Department of Health, and any successor thereto;

“DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and Highways and 

(i)

“DSWD” means the Borrower’s Department of Social Welfare an Development, 

(j)

“Framework for the Treatment of Indigenous Peoples” means the framework set 

out in the Project Implementation Manual, and acceptable to the Bank, providing guidelines to 

(b)

(c)

(g)

(h)

(e)
successor thereto;

thereto;

any successor thereto;

and any successor thereto;

mitigate any social or cultural impact of the Project on Indigenous Peoples and including 
screening and monitoring procedures;

(k)

“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each report 

prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

(l)

“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 

ending December 31;

(m)

“Grantee” and “Grantees” mean a person or entity, or persons or entities,

respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Parts A.1 (b) and A.3 of the 
Project;

(n)

“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and cultural 

identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development process, 
including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) a close attachment 
to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas; (ii) self-identification and 
identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; (iii) an indigenous language, 
often different from the national language; (iv) presence of customary social and political 
institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented production;

(o)

“Peoples’ Organization” means an organization established at the Barangay level 

and legally empowered to act on behalf of the Barangay or the thresidents of the Barangay, to 
carry out Sub-projects under Part A. 3 of the Project;

“Peso” and “PHP” mean the currency of the Borrower;

(p)

(q)

“Poor Barangay” means a Barangay: (i) within a third to a sixth class 

municipality, the classification of which is based on income, and (ii) within a city     with a large 
population living below the Borrower’s poverty threshold;

(r)

“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, including the Manual for 
the School-based Repair and Maintenance Scheme and the CIDSS Operations Manual, to assist 
DBM, DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD in the implementation of the Project through the 
description of, among others: (i) procurement procedures (including the supplemental letter on 
procurement procedures of even date with this Agreement) and standard documentation as set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) reporting requirements and financial management 
procedures, including audit procedures, as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, (iii) the 
Project Performance Indicators as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, (iv) environmental 
criteria applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be carried out 
under a Sub-project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and (v) the Framework for Treatment of Indigenous Peoples; as such Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 

(s)

“Project Management Unit” means the unit established within each of DBM, 

DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD, to be maintained by the Borrower in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(t)

“School Repair and Maintenance Grant” means a grant made available by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees to 

finance the cost of a Sub-project under Part A.1 (b) of the Project;

(u)
Agreement;

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 

(v)

“Steering Committee” means the inter-agency committee established pursuant to 

paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(w)

“Sub-project”  means  a  specific  infrastructure  investment  project,  income 
generating project or social services project carried out by a Grantee under Parts A.1 (b) and A.3 
of  the  Project  and  utilizing  the  proceeds  of  a  Grant  made  available  in  accordance  with  a 
Sub-project Implementation Agreement; and

(x)

“Sub-project  Implementation  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered 
into  between  the  relevant  Grantee  or  Grantees  and  DEPED  for  purposes  of  implementing  the 
activities  under  a  Sub-project  under  Parts  A.1  (b)  of  the  Project,  and  between  the  relevant 
Grantee or Grantees and DSWD for purposes of implementing the activities under a Sub-project 
under Part A.3 of the Project.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  one  hundred  million  Dollars 
($100,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.

Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (i) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a Grant under Parts A.1 (b) and 
A.3  of  the  Project  to  meet  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works  and  services  required  for  a 
Sub-project  and  in  respect  of  which  the  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  is  requested;  (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods  and  works  required  for  Parts  A.1  (a),  A.1  (c),  A.2,  B  and  C  of  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan: and (iii) in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by Bangko Sentral 
ng  Pilipinas  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  appropriate  protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

Section  2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  December  31,  2005,  or  such  later  date  as  the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 

shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount 
of such fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  equal  to:  (i)  eighty  five 
one-hundredths  of  one  per  cent  (0.85%)  per  annum  from  the  date  on  which  such  charge 
commences  to  accrue  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  3.02  of  the  General 
Conditions  to  but  not  including  the  fourth  anniversary  of  such  date;  and  (ii)  seventy  five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.

Section  2.06.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the  Borrower  shall,  during  the  Conversion  Period,  pay  interest  on  such  amount  in  accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 

on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 

with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 

(i)
amount of the  Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;

(ii)

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 

amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 

principal 
Rate, or vice versa; and

the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on 

(iii)
of the 
establishment  of 
said Variable Rate.

(b)

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted by  the Bank  shall be considered  a “Conversion”, as  defined in  Section 2.01(7) of  the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  the  aggregate 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be changed from the 
initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end shall carry out: (i) Part A.1 (a) through DEPED and DPWH; (ii) Parts A.1 (b), A. 
1 (c), and B.2 of the Project through DEPED; (iii) Parts A.2 and B.3 of the Project through DOH; 
(iv) Part A.3 of the Project through DSWD; (v) Parts B.1 and B.4 of the Project through DEPED, 
DOH  and  DSWD;  and  (vi)  and  Part  C  of  the  Project  through  DBM,  with  due  diligence  and 
efficiency  and 
in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  economic,  educational, 
engineering, financial, and management practices, and sound environmental and social standards, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.

(b)

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  and 
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the 
Project  in  accordance  with  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth  in  Schedule  5  to  this 
Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree (a) procurement of the goods and 
works required for Parts A.1 (a), A.1 (c), A.2, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
and (b) procurement of the goods and works required for Parts A.1(b) and A.3 of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Annex 
to Schedule 5 to this Agreement .

Section 3.03.   For the  purposes of Section  9.07 of the General  Conditions and without 

limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare,  on  the  basis  of  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this  purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  a  plan  for  the  continued  achievement  of  the 
purposes of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 

on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records  and  accounts,  and  prepare  financial  statements  in  a  format  acceptable  to  the  Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have  the  records,  accounts  and  financial  statements  referred  to  in 
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  and  the  records  and  accounts  for  the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 

standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  consistently  applied,  by  independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies  of  the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion  on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(iii)

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts,  and  the  audit  thereof,  and  concerning  said  auditors,  as  the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were  made  on  the  basis  of  Financial  Monitoring  Reports  or  statements  of  expenditure,  the 
Borrower shall:

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,  bills,  receipts  and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

(iii)

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are  included  in  the  annual  audit 
referred  to  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the  report  of  such 
audit  contains  a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors  as  to  whether  the 
Financial  Monitoring  Reports  or  statements  of  expenditure  submitted 
during  such  fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and  internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.

Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set  out  in  paragraph  12  (b)  of  Schedule  5  to  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  prepare  and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  a  Financial  Monitoring  Report,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank, which:

sets  forth  sources  and  uses  of  funds  for  the  Project,  both  cumulatively 
and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  showing  separately  funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;

implementation,  both 
describes  physical  progress 
cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  and  explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and

in  Project 

(i)

(ii)

(iv)

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.

(b)

The  first  Financial  Monitoring  Report  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later 
than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such 
first  calendar  quarter;  thereafter,  each  Financial  Monitoring  Report  shall  be  furnished  to  the 
Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

Section  5.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional  conditions  to  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the  General 
Conditions: 

(a)

the Steering Committee has been established in accordance with paragraph 1 of 

Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

(b)

the Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted in 

accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

Section  5.02. The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby 

specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 

the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 

the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral Complex
Roxas Boulevard
Manila, Republic of the Philippines

Cable address: 

Telex:

Facsimile:

SECFIN 

40268CB-CONF

(63-2) 526-9990

Manila

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
64145 (MCI)

(202) 477-6391

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly  authorized 
representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective  names  in  Manila, 
Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

By

/s/ Jose Isidro Camacho

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By

/s/ Robert Vance Pulley

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.
 The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the  Loan,  the  allocation  of  the  amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated

% of

Category

Civil works

Goods

(1)

(2)

(Expressed
in Dollars)

Expenditures
to be Financed

9,700,000

75%

63,000,000

100% of foreign 
expenditures,100% of 
local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

80% of Grant amount
disbursed

80% of Grant amount
disbursed

Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement

(3)

School Repair and
Maintenance Grants

12,300,000

(4)

CIDSS Grants

8,000,000

(5)

Incremental operating costs  

1,000,000

50%

(6)

Fee

1,000,000

(7)

Unallocated

TOTAL

5,000,000

100,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the  term  “foreign  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of  any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the  term  “local  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of  the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and

(c)

the term “Incremental operating  costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred 
by:  (i)  Project  staff  of  DBM,  DEPED,  DOH,  DSWD    and  DPWH  for  staff  travel,  per  diem, 
communications and consumables, but excluding staff salaries, and (ii) reasonable expenditures 
incurred  by  Government  staff  being  trained  under  the  Project  for  staff  travel,  per  diem, 
communications,  consumables  and  rental  for  training  facilities;  which  expenditures  would  not 
have been incurred absent the Project.

3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000[the equivalent of],000 may be made 
in  respect  of  Category  (2)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  on  account  of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 2002; and (b) a Grant under 
Categories (3) and (4) unless a Sub-project Implementation Agreement has been entered into in 
accordance with the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works under contracts costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, 
excluding  vaccines  and  pharmaceuticals;  (iii)  Grants;  and  (iv)  incremental  operating  costs;  all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving basic social services 
(i) by enhancing performance and governance in the education, health and social services sectors, 
and (ii) by providing inputs to such services.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 

Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

PART A

(a)

1.
Construction of: (i) classrooms at existing elementary and secondary schools and 
(ii) one-classroom satellite  elementary and secondary schools, totaling  about 1,750 classrooms, 
in selected Barangays, and provision of related school equipment.

(b)

Carrying  out  of  school  repair  and  maintenance  Sub-projects  through  the 

provision of about 40,000 School Repair and Maintenance Grants to elementary schools. 

(c)

Provision  of  textbooks,  teachers’  manuals  and  related  educational  materials  to 

elementary and secondary schools. 

Strengthening  of  DOH’s  public  health  program,  including  the  expanded  program  for 
2.
immunization, the national tuberculosis control program and the prevention and control of rabies, 
through the provision of anti-tuberculosis drugs, vaccines (including  animal rabies vaccines) and 
related supplies to health centers and facilities.

3.
Carrying  out  of  infrastructure  investment  Sub-projects,  income  generating  Sub-projects 
and  social  services  Sub-projects  in  Poor  Barangays  through  the  provision  of  CIDSS  Grants  to 
Peoples Organizations.

1.
Strengthening the capacity of  DEPED, DOH and DSWD to improve their management 
systems,  including  financial  management,  procurement  and  communications  and  information 
systems.

Strengthening  the  human  resources  management  capacity  of  DEPED  through  the 
2.
institutionalization  of  the  new-teacher  deployment  system,  including  teacher  deployment 
monitoring.

Strengthening and improving the capacity of DOH’s Bureau of Food and Drugs to issue 
3.
certificates  of  product  registration,  to  accredit  and  conduct  laboratory  testing  and  inspections, 
and  to  issue  Good  Manufacturing  Practice  certifications  in  accordance  with  acceptable 
performance standards.

Provision of technical assistance and staff training for purposes of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 

4.
of this Part of the Project.

PART B

PART C

Development and implementation by DBM of transparency and accountability initiatives 
for  the  Borrower’s  budgetary  processes  in  the  education,  health  and  social  welfare  sectors, 
including  provision  of  technical  assistance  to  DBM  and  provision  of  related  training  to 
government staff. 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayment  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as 
necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a 
Currency Conversion applies.

Installment Share

(Expressed as a %)

Payment Date

October 15, 2002
April 15, 2003
October 15, 2003
April 15, 2004
October 15, 2004
April 15, 2005
October 15, 2005
April 15, 2006
October 15, 2006
April 15, 2007
October 15, 2007
April 15, 2008
October 15, 2008
April 15, 2009
October 15, 2009
April 15, 2010
October 15, 2010
April 15, 2011
October 15, 2011
April 15, 2012
October 15, 2012
April 15, 2013
October 15, 2013
April 15, 2014
October 15, 2014
April 15, 2015

Payment Date

October 15, 2015
April 15, 2016
October 15, 2016
April 15, 2017
October 15, 2017

0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
1.70%
1.92%
2.16%
2.43%
2.73%
3.07%
3.46%
3.89%
4.37%
4.92%

5.54%
6.23%
7.01%
7.88%
8.87%

Installment Share

(Expressed as a %)

April 15, 2018
October 15, 2018
April 15, 2019

9.98%
11.22%
12.62%

If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
2. 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b)

Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of 
which  shall  be  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of  which  shall  be  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment 
Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date,  such  repayment  amounts  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.

(a)

Withdrawals  made  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal  Payment 
3.
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date,  be treated  as withdrawn and  outstanding on the  second Principal  Payment Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.

(b)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 

4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  said  Approved  Currency  that  shall  be  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  said 
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply 
separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), the provisions of the Supplemental Letter on Procurement Procedures of even date 
with this Agreement and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B: International Competitive Bidding

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  C  of  this  Section,  goods  shall  be  procured  under 
1.
contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  II  of  the  Guidelines  and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 

2.
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

(a)

Grouping of contracts

To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 

to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.

(b)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.54  and  2.55  of  the  Guidelines  and  Appendix  2  thereto 

shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures 

1.

National Competitive Bidding

Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 4 below, works shall be procured under contracts 

awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.

Direct Contracting

Mathematics  textbooks  which  are  of  a  proprietary  nature  and  costing  $2,750,000 
equivalent  or  less  in  the  aggregate,  and  pre-fabricated  school  classrooms  which  are  of  a 
proprietary nature and costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s 
prior  agreement,  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3.7  of  the 
Guidelines.

3.

Procurement from UN Agencies

Rabies vaccines, costing $1,010,000 or less in the aggregate, may be procured from the 
World Health Organization and other vaccines, costing $9,600,000 or less in the aggregate, may 
be procured through the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.

4.

Procurement of Small Works

Works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate 
amount  not  to  exceed  $5,900,000  equivalent,  may  be  procured  under  lump-sum,  fixed-price 
contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  quotations  obtained  from  three  (3)  qualified  domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of  the  works,  including  basic  specifications,  the  required  completion  date,  a  basic  form  of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior  to  the  issuance  of  any  invitations  to  bid  for  contracts,  the  proposed  procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines.  Procurement  of  all  goods  and 
works  shall  be  undertaken  in  accordance  with  such  procurement  plan  as  shall  have  been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With  respect  to  (i)  each  contract  for  works  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of 
$300,000 or more, (ii) the first three contracts for works estimated to cost $50,000 or more but 
less then $300,000, and (iii) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  Appendix  1  to  the 
Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With  respect  to  the  first  three  contracts  for  works  in  each  Fiscal  Year  to  be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C. 4 above and estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, and each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance  with  the  procedures  referred  to  in  paragraphs  C.2  and  C.3  above,  the  following 
procedures shall apply:

(i)

(ii)

prior  to  the  selection  of  any  supplier/execution  of  any  contract  under 
small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;

prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, 
from  UN  Agencies  or  small  works  procedures,  the  Borrower  shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and

(iii)

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 

forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

The  Borrower  shall  establish  by  Joint  Department  Order,  and  thereafter  maintain  until 
1.
completion  of  the  Project,  the  Steering  Committee,  chaired  by  the  Secretary  of  DBM,  as  lead 
agency,  and  consisting  of  representatives  from  DEPED,  DOH,  DPWH  and  DSWD,  to  monitor 
the progress of the Project and coordinate Project activities.

2.
The  Borrower  shall  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the  Project  Management 
Unit in each of DBM, DEPED, DOH, DPWH and DSWD, headed by a Project Coordinator, with 
qualifications  and  experience  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  reporting  to  the  designated 
Undersecretary, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and 
staffed  by  qualified  and  experienced  personnel  in  adequate  numbers,  including  financial, 
accounting,  procurement  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  specialists,  as  required  for  the 
management of the activities under the Project. 

3.
The Borrower shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, the 
Project Implementation Manual, and shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the 
Project Implementation Manual, without the prior approval of the Bank.

4.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that all land required for purposes 
of the Project is purchased from a willing seller following commercial practices in the area or is 
donated by a willing donor.

5.

The Borrower shall ensure, at all times, that:

(a)

in  carrying  out  Part  A.1  (b)  of  the  Project,  public  information,  aimed  at 
disclosing  to  inhabitants  of  Barangays  all  administrative,  financial,  environmental,  social, 
procedural  and 
the  selection,  design,  preparation  and 
implementation  of  Sub-projects,  including  the  Manual  for  the  School-based  Repair  and 

technical  aspects  pertaining  to 

Maintenance Scheme, is available free of charge at the offices of the School Head; and 

(b)

in carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, public information, aimed at disclosing to 
inhabitants  of  Barangays  all  administrative,  financial,  environmental,  social,  procedural  and 
technical  aspects  pertaining  to  the  selection,  design,  preparation  and  implementation  of 
Sub-projects, including the CIDSS Operations Manual is available free of charge at the offices of 
the Barangay Captain.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  Sub-projects  are  selected  for  purposes  of  Parts  A.1  (b) 
6.
and A.3 of the Project in accordance with the criteria and the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule and in the Project Implementation Manual.

7.

In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a)

avoid,  and,  if  not  possible,  minimize  cultural,  social  and  economic  adverse 

effects on Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the Project; and

(b)

through a process of informed consultation and participation, involve concerned 
Indigenous  Peoples  in  the  design  and  implementation  of  Sub-projects  so  as  to  ensure  that  the 
benefits  received  by  the  Indigenous  Peoples  under  the  Project  are  in  harmony  with  their 
economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights.

8.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DEPED, DOH and DSWD 
to  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  comments,  by  March  31,  2003,  draft  financial  management, 
procurement,  and  information  systems  and  technology  improvement  plans,  and,  promptly 
thereafter, carry out such improvement plans taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, 
if any. 

9.

In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DOH to:

(a)

furnish  to  the  Bank  for  comments  by  November  30,  2002,  a  draft  time-bound 
action plan to address: (i) the streamlining of the functions of its Bureau of Food and Drugs, (ii) 
the  strengthening  of  the  capacity  of  such  Bureau  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities,  and  (iii)  the 
accreditation of private laboratories; and

(b)

promptly thereafter, implement the action plan taking into account the comments 

of the Bank thereon, if any. 

10.
In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DEPED and DBM, by 
December  31,  2004,  to  institutionalize  the  new-teacher  deployment  system,  agreed  with  the 
Bank.

11.
In  carrying  out  Part  C  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  DBM  to  furnish  to  the 
Bank for comments, by December 31, 2003, draft action plans for the initiatives, and promptly 
thereafter, implement such action plans taking into account the comments of the Bank, if any.

12.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies  and procedures adequate  to enable it  to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 

the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the 
Bank,  on  or  about  January  31,  2004,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and 
evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  on  the  progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by February 29, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.

Annex to Schedule 5

Selection Criteria and Procurement Procedures for Sub-Projects

No  Sub-project  shall:  (a)  include  expenditures  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary 
1.
purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or religious purposes; (c) relate to 
the  manufacture  or  use  of  environmentally  harmful  products 
(including  pesticides, 
ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products, materials containing asbestos, arms and 
drugs);  (d)  relate  to  activities  producing  liquid  or  gaseous  effluents  or  emissions  at  harmful 
levels;  (e)  relate  to  activities  using,  producing,  storing  or  transporting  hazardous  materials  and 
wastes; (f) relate to logging; (g) relate to activities in protected areas; or (h) include the financing 
of government salaries or taxes.

2.
Goods  and  works  under  Sub-projects  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  community 
participation  procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as  set  forth  in  the  Project  Implementation 
Manual.

A.

Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part A.1 (b) of the Project

Each  Sub-project  proposed  shall  be  a  public  infrastructure  investment  project  which  is 

1.
technically, financially and environmentally viable, and socially and economically justified.

The  estimated  cost  of  a  proposed  Sub-project  shall  not  be  more  than  PHP100,000  per 

2.
year.

3.
A  Sub-project  Implementation  Agreement  shall  be  entered  into  between  the  Grantee 
school and DEPED, on terms and conditions set forth in the Manual for the School-based Repair 
and Maintenance Scheme.

B.

Selection Criteria for Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project

1.
Each  Sub-project  proposed  shall  be  a  public  infrastructure  investment  Sub-project,  an 
income  generating  Sub-project  or  a  social  services  Sub-project  which  is  technically  financially 
and environmentally viable, and socially and economically justified. 

2.

The estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall be not more than PHP300,000.

3.
A  Sub-project  Implementation  Agreement  shall  be  entered  into  between  the  Grantee 
Peoples’  Organization  and  DSWD,  on  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  CIDSS  Operations 
Manual.

SCHEDULE 6

Performance Indicators

A. 1: Basic Education
1. Textbook: pupil ratio in 4 core 

subjects (math, science, English 
and Filipino)

2. Distribution of textbooks
3. Construction of about 1,750 

new classrooms

4. Provision of Grants for repair 
and maintenance of school 
buildings

A.2: Basic Health
1. Reduction of measles cases by 

50%

2. Increase Child Protected at 

Birth (CPAB) for tetanus toxoid 
by 100%

3. Resume polio free certification 

immunized child
5. Rabies free Visayas

6. Increase TB smear-positive 

notification rate

7. Improve TB Cure rate
8. Administration of TB drugs
A.3: Social Services

1. Implement CIDSS 
Sub-projects

Baseline

December 31, 
2003

Closing Date

Source of Data

1:2.5

1: 1.5

1:1

DEPED MIS; 
textbook survey

20 million
750

50 million
1,750

20,000 Grants

40,000 Grants

FMR
FMR

FMR

7,194 cases

< 5,000

< 3,500

0.2/1000 live 
births

0.3/1000 live births 0.4/1000 live births

DOH/hospital 
reported cases
DOH/health 
records

Surveillance data

National Statistics 
Office survey
DOH

<1 case per 100,000 
in under 15 
population
67%

6 cases per 
million 
population
85

80%

< 4 cases per million < 1 case per million 

population

95

100

DOTS reports

83%
160,000 patients

85%
200,000 patients

DOTS reports
FMR

1000

2000

FMR

4. Increase coverage of fully 

61%

63%

Baseline

December 31, 
2003

Closing Date

Source of Data

7. Adopt contract distribution 

Adopted

Maintained

Maintained

8. Form interim IT organization in 

Completed

B.1: Strengthening of 
FM/Procurement/IT 
systems

1. Prepare draft FM- Procurement 

- IT improvement plans 

2. Spread sheet based accounting 
system installed in central 
offices of DEPED and DSWD

3. Implement a MIS flash 

reporting system in DEPED, 
DSWD and DOH

4. Implement streamlined budget 
process in DEPED, DOH and 
DSWD

5. Reconstitute procurement unit 
and streamline procurement 
processes in DEPED and DOH

6. DEPED Annual statistics 

published within 6 months of 
year end

system in DOH

DEPED

B.2: Human Resources 

Management Improvement
1. Reduce number of schools with 

pupil:teacher ratio > 50:1

2. Inter Quartile Ratio for teacher 
deployment at division, region 
and national level

3. Adopt new teacher deployment 

system in DEPED

B.3: Strengthen Bureau of Food 

and Drugs 

1. Adopt plan for streamlining 
Bureau of Food and Drugs
2. Define and maintain Bureau of 
Food and Drugs performance 
standards

C: Increase Transparency and  

Accountability

1. Develop and implement a 

Public Expenditure Tracking 
System
2. Increase in client 
satisfaction with basic social 
services

Completed

Completed

Completed

Completed

Initiated

Completed

SY 2002-2003 
stats published

SY 2003/2004 
stats published

500

2

250

1.5

<100

1

Completed

Completed

Defined

Maintained

Developed

Implemented

Report Card 
Survey 2000

Second Report 
Card Survey 
completed

SCHEDULE 7

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the  term  “eligible  Categories”  means  Categories  (1)  through  (6)  as  set  forth  in 

the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  $2,000,000 to 
be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the  Authorized  Allocation  shall  be  limited  to  the  amount  of  $1,000,000    until  the  aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 

2.
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at 
such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been  shown  by  said  documents  and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the 
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by  said 
documents and other evidence.

4.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 

at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  shall  not  be 

5.
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

(a)

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further  withdrawals 
should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this 
Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports  required  to  be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;

(c)

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  notified  the  Borrower  of  its  intention  to 
suspend  in  whole  or  in  part  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d)

once  the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible 
Categories,  minus  the  total  amount  of  all  outstanding  special  commitments  entered  into  by  the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  eligible 
expenditures.

(a)

6.
If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  payment  out  of  the 
Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure  or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so  request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the 
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  such  outstanding 
amount.

(c)

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or  any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b),  and  (c)  of  this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

