CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7181 RO 

Loan Agreement 

Electricity Market Project 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

TRANSELECTRICA S.A. 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

 

Dated July 15, 2003 

LOAN NUMBER 7181 RO 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

 
(B) 

 
(C) 

 
(D) 

AGREEMENT,  dated  July  15,  2003  between  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  TRANSELECTRICA 
S.A. (the Borrower), a joint stock company established and operating under the laws of 
Romania and further defined in Section 1.02 (m) of this Agreement. 

 
WHEREAS  (A)  Romania  (the  Guarantor)  and  the  Borrower,  having  been 
satisfied  as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

by  an  agreement  of  even  date  herewith  between  the  Guarantor  and  the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;  

Part  B  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  ANRE  (as  hereinafter 
defined),  and  the  Guarantor  has  obtained  from  the  European  Union  (EU)  a  grant  in  an 
amount  equivalent  to  (cid:0)900,000  (the  EU  Grant)  to  assist  in  carrying  out  Part  B  of  the 
Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  entered  into  between  the 
Guarantor, ANRE and the EU, dated November 6, 2000 (the EU Grant Agreement); and  

Part  C  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  OPCOM  (as  hereinafter 
defined)  with  the  Borrower’s  assistance  and  financial  monitoring,  and  as  part  of  such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to OPCOM part of the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided for in this Agreement. 

 
WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of  the  foregoing,  to 
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this 
Agreement and in the aforesaid Guarantee Agreement; 

 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

 

2-

-

ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 

 
Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective 
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following 
meanings: 

“ANRE” means the regulatory authority for electricity and heat, an entity 
duly  established  and  operating  in  Romania  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  
Law 99/2000, or any legal successor thereto; 

“Electricity  Market  Coordination  Committee”  means  a  committee 
established  by  the  Ministry  of  Industry  and  Resources  of  the  Guarantor  under  a 
Ministerial Order No. 231, dated April 8, 2003, to define the principles and modalities for 
the new electricity trading regime and consisting of representatives from the Guarantor, 
Borrower, OPCOM and ANRE; 

“Electricity  Market  Directorate”  means  a  management  team  established 
by the Electricity Market Coordination Committee and consisting of representatives from 
the  Borrower,  OPCOM  and  ANRE  and  their  consultants  engaged  under  Part  C  of  the 
Project; 
 
(d) 

“Electricity  Market  Working  Groups”  means  working  groups, 
established  by  the  Electricity  Market  Coordination  Committee  and  consisting  of 
representatives from the Borrower, OPCOM, ANRE and their consultants; 

“EMPs”  means  the  Environmental  Management  Plans  for  Fundeni  and 
Iernut substations, approved by the Bank in February 2003 and March 2003, respectively, 
describing the environmental issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for 
Part A of the Project; 

“Financing  and  Project 

the 
agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  OPCOM  pursuant  to  
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Financing and Project Implementation Agreement; 

Implementation  Agreement”  means 

“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means  each report prepared in 

accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

 

3-

-

(h) 

“New  Trading  Platform”  means  collectively  the  logistics,  rules  and 
procedures to be approved by ANRE, or any legal successor thereto, in accordance with 
the provisions of Law 99/2000, which defines the technical, operational and commercial 
modalities  for  implementation  of  the  new  electricity  trading  regime,  comprising  long-
term contracts for trading between electricity market participants, short-term transactions 
between electricity market participants on the OPCOM Power Exchange, and a real-time 
electricity balancing mechanism operated by the Borrower; 

“OPCOM”  means  a joint  stock  company  (and  a  subsidiary  company  of 
the  Borrower),  established  pursuant  to  Government’s  Decision  No.  627/2000  dated  
July  13,  2000, engaged  in the  operation  of  Romania’s  electricity  market,  and  operating 
pursuant to the Market Administration License 407/2001 issued by ANRE in accordance 
with the provisions of the Law 99/2000, or any legal successor thereto; 

“OPCOM  Power  Exchange”  means  collectively  the  set  of  commercial 
rules and operational mechanisms that OPCOM, pursuant to the Market Administration 
License  407/2001  issued  by  ANRE  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  
Law  99/2000,  will  implement  in  order  to  register,  intermediate  and/or  administer 
settlements  of  long-term  and  short  term  transactions  between  electricity  market 
participants,  and  also  register,  intermediate  and/or  administer  settlements  between 
electricity market participants and the Borrower;  

“Road  Map”  means  the  Guarantor’s  Road  Map  for  Energy  Field  in 
Romania,  submitted  to  the  Bank  on  March  20,  2003,  or  any  updated  version  formally 
approved by the Guarantor; 

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

 
(l) 
this Agreement; and 

“Transelectrica S.A.” means a national grid and transmission joint stock 
company  established  pursuant 
to  Government’s  Decision  No.  627/2000  dated  
July 13, 2000, engaged in the transmission of electric power and dispatch, and operating 
in  Romania  pursuant  to  Power  Transmission  License  161/2000  and  Electricity 
Dispatching  License  162/2000  issued  by  ANRE,  as  updated  in  October  25,  2002  by 
ANRE’s Decisions 784 and 785, in accordance with the provisions of the Law 99/2000, 
or any legal successor thereto. 

 
(i) 

 
(j) 

 
(k) 

 
(m) 

 

4-

-

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

 

 
(b) 

 
Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and 
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  seventy-four 
million  three  hundred  thousand  Euro  ((cid:0)74,300,000) as  such  amount  may  be  converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 

 
Section  2.02.  (a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan 
Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, in respect of any premium in respect of an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) 
of the General Conditions. 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euro a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits 
into each and payment out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 

 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date. 
 
Section  2.04.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  in  an 
amount  equal  to  one  percent  (1%)  of  the  amount  of  the  Loan  on  or  promptly  after  the 
Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  equal  to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the  General  Conditions  to  but  not  including  the  fourth  anniversary  of  such  date;  and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 

 
Section  2.06.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  the  Borrower  shall,  during  the  Conversion  Period,  pay  interest  on 
such  amount  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

5-

-

 
(i) 
 
 
 
(ii) 

Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 

 
Section  2.08.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following 

conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; 

(iii) 

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal  amount  of the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or 
vice versa; and 
 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  said 
Variable Rate. 
 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article 
the  Conversion  Guidelines.  
 

the  General  Conditions  and  of 

IV  of 

(b) 

(c) 

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  
 

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 
 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out 
Part  A  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and environmental practices, and shall 
provide,  promptly  as  needed, the  funds, facilities, services  and  other  resources required 

6-

-

for Part A of the Project; and (ii) cause OPCOM to carry out Part C of the Project with 
due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, 
engineering, financial and environmental practices, and shall cause OPCOM to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part C 
of the Project. 
 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  use  a  portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to  assist 
OPCOM  in  implementing  Part  C  of  the  Project  under  a  Financing  and  Project 
Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OPCOM, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 

 
(c) 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Financing  and  Project 
Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financing 
and Project Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.  

 
(d)  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out Part A of the Project, and shall cause OPCOM to carry out Part C of the Project, in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to  this 
Agreement. 
 

Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  Closing  Date  a  plan  for  the  future 
operation of the Project or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank; and 

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  the 

Borrower on said plan. 

 
Section  3.04.  The  Bank  and  the  Borrower  hereby  agree  that  the  obligations  set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports, 
maintenance  and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of:  (a)  Part  A  of  the  Project  
shall be carried out by the Borrower; and (b) Part C of the Project shall be carried out by 
OPCOM pursuant to the Financing and Project Implementation Agreement. 
 

7-

-

ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 

Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  and  shall  cause  OPCOM  to 
maintain  a  financial  management  system,  including  records  and  accounts,  and  prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently  applied,  adequate  to  reflect  its  operations  and  financial  condition  and  to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 

 
(b) 

The Borrower shall and shall cause OPCOM to: 

 
have  its  records,  accounts  and  financial  statements  (balance 
sheets),  statements  of 
income  and  expenses  and  related 
statements)  and  the  records  and  accounts  for  the  Project  and 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  consistently  applied, 
by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  selected 
not later than November 30, 2003 for the Borrower’s fiscal year 
2003;   

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year; (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such  statements  and  report  of  such  audit,  by  said  auditors,  of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 

(c) 

For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 
Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall: 
 

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained,  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records  and  separate  accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank  has  received  the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the  Loan  Account  was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, 

(i) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(i) 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 

(iii) 

8-

-

invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  such 
expenditures; 
 
enable the  Bank’s  representatives  to  examine  such  records; and 
 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit  referred  to  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as  to  whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during 
such  fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and  internal 
controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to 
support the related withdrawals. 

 
Section  4.02.  (a)  Without  limitation  upon  the  Borrower’s  progress  reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  Financial  Monitoring  Report  (FMR),  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 

 

sets  forth  sources  and  uses  of  funds  for  Parts  A  and  C  of  the 
Project,  both  cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said 
report,  showing  separately  funds  provided  under  the  Loan  and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 

describes  physical  progress  in  Project  implementation,  both 
cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  and 
explains  variances  between  the  actual  and  planned  Project 
implementation; and 
 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A and C of the 
Project,  as  at  the  end  of  the  period  covered  by  said  report. 
 

(b)  

The  first  FMR  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five 
(45)  days  after  the  end  of  the  first  calendar  quarter  after  the  Effective  Date,  and  shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  each  subsequent  calendar  quarter,  and  shall  cover 
such calendar quarter. 

 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to 
the  date  of  such  incurrence,  whichever  is  the  greater,  shall  be  at  least  1.3  times  the 
estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal 
year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred. 

9-

-

For the purposes of this Section: 

(b) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

The  term  “debt”  means  any  indebtedness  of  the  Borrower 
maturing  by  its  terms  more  than  one  (1)  year  after  the  date  on 
which it is originally incurred. 

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 

(iii) 

The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 

(A) 

(B) 

(A) 

(B) 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to 
operations  adjusted  to  take  account  of  the  Borrower’s 
rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though  they  were  not  in  effect  during  the  twelve  (12) 
month period to which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and 

the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to  operations  including 
administration,  adequate  maintenance, 
taxes  and 
payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision  for 
depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating  charges  and 
interest and other charges on debt. 

(iv) 

The  term  “net  non-operating  income”  means  the  difference 
between: 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to 
operations; and 

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 

(v) 

The  term  “debt  service  requirements”  means  the  aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 

(vi)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of 

10-

-

the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other 
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 

 
Section  4.04. (a) Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall 
maintain, for each of its fiscal years commencing from the year 2003, a ratio of current 
assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.2. 

Before June 30 of each year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts 
prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the 
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and  the  next  following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 

If  any  such  review  shows  that  the  Borrower  would  not  meet  the 
requirements  set forth  in  paragraph  (a) for  the  Borrower’s  fiscal  years  covered by  such 
review,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  take  all  necessary  measures  (including,  without 
limitation,  adjustments  of  the  structure  or  levels  of  its  rates)  in  order  to  meet  such 
requirements. 

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the  ordinary  course  of  business  be  converted  into  cash  within 
twelve  (12)  months,  including  accounts  receivable,  marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 

The  term  “current  liabilities”  means  all  liabilities  which  will 
become  due  and  payable  or  could  under  circumstances  then 
existing  be  called  for  payment  within  twelve  (12)  months, 
including  accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  taxes  and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 

 
(iii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of 
the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other 
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on  the  basis  of  a  rate  of  exchange  acceptable  to  the  Bank. 
 
The  term  “net  non-operating  income”  means  the  difference 
between: 

(iv) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 
 

 

11-

-

(A) 

(B) 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to 
operations; and 

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 

(v) 

The  term  “debt  service  requirements”  means  the  aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 

 

 

 

Section 4.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding Sections 
of this Article IV or the provisions of Section 9.01 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31 of each year during 
Project execution, updated business plan including an investment program and financial 
reports for the previous twelve-month period and projections for the next five (5) years of 
its revenues, capital expenditures, borrowings and debt service, and accounts receivables, 
and  financing  and  monitoring  indicators  which,  in  the  Bank’s  opinion,  are  relevant  for 
determining the Borrower’s financial condition and its operational performance.  

ARTICLE V 

Other Covenants 

 

 

 

Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a)  

carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
public utilities, financial, and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;  

at  all  times  operate  and  maintain  its  plants,  machinery,  equipment  and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices; and 

take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

ARTICLE VI 
 
Remedies of the Bank 

 
Section  6.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (p)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 

following additional events are specified: 

12-

-

(a) 

Law No. 99/2000 of the Guarantor shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  or  the  Guarantor  shall  have  enacted  new  legislation  or 
issued new directives so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower 
to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement  or  the  ability  of  ANRE  or 
OPCOM to implement Part B or Part C of the Project, respectively; 
 

(b) 

Guarantor shall have amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
its Road Map so as to affect materially and adversely the design or implementation of its 
power sector reform strategy;    
 

(c) 

OPCOM  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligation  under  the 

Financing and Project Implementation Agreement; and 
 

(d) 

(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of ANRE to 
use the EU Grant made to ANRE for the carrying out of Part B of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
EU Grant Agreement providing therefor. 

 
(ii)  Subparagraph  (i)  of  this  paragraph  shall  not  apply  if  ANRE  
establishes  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Bank  that:  (A)  such  suspension,  cancellation  or 
termination is not caused by the failure of ANRE  to perform any of its obligations under 
the EU Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for Part B of the Project are available 
to ANRE from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 

Section  6.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (k)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 

following additional events are specified: 

the  event  specified  in  paragraph  (c)  of  Section  6.01  of  this  Agreement 
shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for  a  period  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  notice  thereof  shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 

the  event  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  Section  6.01  of  this 

Agreement shall have occurred. 

 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

ARTICLE VII 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 

Section  7.01. The  following  event  is specified  as an additional  condition  to the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the 
General  Conditions,  namely,  that  the  Financing  and Project  Implementation  Agreement 
between the Borrower and OPCOM has been executed. 

13-

-

Section  7.02. The  following  is  specified  as  an  additional  matter,  within  the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions  to  be  furnished  to  the  Bank,  namely,  that  the  Financing  and  Project 
Implementation  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and 
OPCOM, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and OPCOM in accordance with its 
terms. 

 
Section 7.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

ARTICLE VIII 

 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

 
Section  8.01.  The  Director  General  of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as 
representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions: 

 
For the Borrower: 

Transelectrica S.A. 
33, General Gh. Magheru Blvd. 
Bucharest 1 
Romania - 70164 

Facsimile: 

40-1-303-5616  

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

14-

-

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

Telex:   
 
248423 (MCI) or 
64145 (MCI) 

Facsimile: 
(202) 477-6391 

 

 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly 
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

ROMANIA 

By 

/s/  Mihai Nicolai Tanasescu 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By 

/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 

Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

15-

-

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated  
(Expressed in 
 
Euro      )

61,500,000 
 
 

Category

Goods 
(including 
installation) 

Consultants Services 
(including computer 
based simulation and 
trading system for 
Parts A and C of the   
Project) and Audits 

7,500,000 
 
 
 
 
 

Unallocated 

5,300,000 

Premia for Interest  
Rate Caps and  
Interest Rate Collars 

TOTAL 

0 
 
 

_______

74,300,000

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

   % of  
Expenditures 
To be Financed

100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
100% of local 
expenditures (ex- 
factory), and 
80% for other items 
procured locally 

85% incurred by 
foreign consultants 
and 75% incurred by 
local consultants 
 
 

 

 

Amount due under 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
this Agreement 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)  
 
 
 
 
 
 

(3) 
 
(4) 
 
 
 

2. 
 

(a) 

the  term  “foreign  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of 
any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Guarantor    for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;  

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the  

Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the  Guarantor; 

 
(b) 

 

16-

-

(c) 

the  term  “local  consultants”  means  individuals  who  are  the  Romanian  
nationals and are legal residents on the territory of the Guarantor  for taxation purposes, 
and  companies  registered  as  Romanian  legal  entities  under  applicable  laws  of  the  
Guarantor; and 
 
(d) 

the  term  “foreign  consultants”  means  individual  consultants  and 
consulting firms who are not “local consultants” as defined in sub-paragraph (c) of this 
paragraph. 

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be 

3. 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
4. 
The  Bank  may  require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the 
basis  of statements of  expenditure  for  expenditures for  services under  contracts  costing 
less  than  (cid:0)100,000  equivalent  each  for  the  employment  of  consulting  firms  and  under 
contracts  costing  less  than  (cid:0)20,000  each  for  the  employment  of  individual  consultants, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 

17-

-

SCHEDULE 2 

 

Description of the Project 

 
The objective of the Project is to develop a well-functioning wholesale electricity 
market  through:  (a)  establishing  a  transparent  and  predictable  commercial  regulatory 
framework and a power exchange that will facilitate electric trading within a competitive 
market;  and  (b)  improving  the  efficiency  and  reliability  of  the  transmission  system  in 
order to support trading and supply electricity at least cost to consumers. 

 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objectives: 

 

Part A: Rehabilitation of Substations and Institutional Support

Supplying  and  installing  modern  equipment  at  all  voltages  at  the  Fundeni  and 

1. 
Iernut substations. 
 
2. 
Provision  of  consultants’  services  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  supervision  of 
rehabilitation works for the Fundeni and Iernut substations and in contract management. 
 
3. 
Design,  pilot 
balancing mechanism. 
 
Provision  of  consultants’  services  for  institutional  support  and  training  to  the 
4. 
Borrower  in  environmental  issues,  financial  management,  regional  cooperation  and 
operation of the balancing mechanism. 
 
Part B: Establishment of a Regulatory Framework

implementation  of  a 

real-time  electricity 

testing  and 

Provision of consultants’ services to ANRE to: 

Revise  the  regulatory  framework  and  develop  subsidiary  market  rules  for 

 
1. 
implementation of the New Trading Platform. 
 
2. 
to be charged by the Borrower and price-cap tariffs for distribution. 
 
Part C: Design, Pilot Testing and Implementation of the OPCOM Power Exchange

Design and implement a price-cap methodology for setting and adjusting tariffs 

Development  of  a  comprehensive  set  of  long-term  contracts  for  stabilizing 
1. 
trading  regime  for  electricity  market  participants  consistent  with  distribution  and 
generation entities, mechanism for market participants to meet their capacity obligations, 
and mechanism for hydropower regulation.   

18-

-

* * *

Design,  pilot  testing  and  implementation  of  the  OPCOM  Power  Exchange 

2. 
including a computer based simulation system for the New Trading Platform. 
 
3. 
Power Exchange.  
 

Provision of operational know-how for the commercial start-up of the OPCOM 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 2007. 

19-

-

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date,  such  repayment  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 

Installment Share 
Expressed as a %

Payment Date

July 15, 2008 
January 15, 2009 
July 15, 2009 
January 15, 2010 
July 15, 2010 
January 15, 2011 
July 15, 2011 
January 15, 2012 
July 15, 2012 
January 15, 2013 
July 15, 2013 
January 15, 2014 
July 15, 2014 
January 15, 2015 
July 15, 2015 
January 15, 2016 
July 15, 2016 
January 15, 2017 
July 15, 2017 
January 15, 2018 
July 15, 2018 
January 15, 2019 
July 15, 2019 
January 15, 2020 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 2.19% 
 2.44% 
 2.44% 
 3.05% 
 3.66% 
 4.27% 
 4.27% 
 4.88% 
 4.88% 
 5.49% 
 5.49% 
 5.49% 
 5.49% 
 5.49% 
 5.49% 
 6.10% 
 6.10% 
 4.88% 
 4.88% 
 4.88% 
 4.88% 
 2.44% 
 0.37% 
 0.45%

100.00  

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

20-

-

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  not  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first 
2.  
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any  withdrawal  made  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such  withdrawal  in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  (the  Original 
Installment  Share)  and  the  denominator  of  which  shall  be  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

3. 
Withdrawals  made  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if  at  any  time  the  Bank  shall adopt  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which invoices  are 
issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of  such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period, 
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  said  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  

21-

-

If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
5. 
shall  be  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan  Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule 
shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

22-

-

SCHEDULE 4 

Procurement 

 
Section I.

Part A: General

Procurement of Goods

Goods  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I  of  the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 

Part B: International Competitive Bidding

Goods  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the 

1. 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 

 
The  following  provisions  shall  apply  to  goods    to  be  procured  under  contracts 

2. 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 

Prequalification

Bidders  for  contracts  for  goods  shall  be  prequalified  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.54  and  2.55  of  the  Guidelines  and  Appendix  2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 

Notification and Advertising

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract for goods shall be advertised 
in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines. 

 

 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1. 

Procurement Planning

Prior  to  the  issuance  of  any  invitations  to  bid  for  contracts,  the  proposed 
procurement  plan  for  the  Project  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and 
approval,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  Appendix  1  to  the 

23-

-

Guidelines.  Procurement  of  all  goods    shall  be  undertaken  in  accordance  with  such 
procurement  plan  as  shall have  been  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  with  the  provisions  of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
Prior Review

2. 

With  respect  to  each  contract  for  goods  to  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Part  B  of  this  section,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  3  of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. 

Post Review

With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  paragraph  2  of  this  Part,  the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A: General

Consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of  Consultants  by 
World  Bank  Borrowers”  published  by  the  Bank  in  January  1997  and  revised  in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 

 

Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Services  under  Parts  A  and  C  of  the  Project  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3.13  through  3.18  of  the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1. 

Selection Planning

A plan  for  the  selection  of  consultants,  which  shall  include  contract  cost 
estimates,  contract  packaging,  and  applicable selection  criteria  and  procedures, shall  be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months during 
the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review  and  approval.    Selection  of  all  consultants’  services  shall  be  undertaken  in 
accordance  with  such  selection  plan  (as  updated  from  time  to  time)  as  shall  have  been 
approved by the Bank. 
 

24-

-

2. 

Prior Review

(a)        With  respect  to  each  contract  for  the  employment  of  consulting  firms  
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  (cid:0)100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth  in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 

(b)   With  respect  to  each  contract  for  the  employment  of  individual 
consultants  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  (cid:0)20,000  or  more,  the  qualifications, 
experience,  terms  of  reference  and  terms  of  employment  of  the  consultants  shall  be 
furnished  to  the  Bank  for  its  prior  review  and  approval.  The  contract  shall  be  awarded 
only  after  the  said  approval  shall  have  been  given.  The  provision  of  paragraph  3  of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. 

Post Review

With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  paragraph  2  of  this  Part,  the 
procedures  set  forth  in  paragraph  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Consultant  Guidelines  shall 
apply. 

25-

-

SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 

 
Institutional Arrangements

1. 
The Borrower shall designate its Investment Project Management Department to 
take  responsibility  for:  (i)  implementation  of  Part  A  of  the  Project,  including 
procurement,  planning,  monitoring  and  reporting,  disbursement  and  internal  controls, 
maintenance  of  Project  accounts  and  preparation  of  FMRs  with  the  assistance  of  the 
Financial  Department,  and  shall  ensure  that  said  Departments  at  all  times  shall  have 
adequate  staff  and  resources  to  fulfill  their  responsibilities  with  respect  to  Project 
implementation; and (ii) coordination of Transelectrica’s responsibilities for Part C of the 
Project in accordance with the Financing and Project Implementation Agreement. 
 
2. 
In  order  to  ensure  the  overall  coordination  of  the  Project  activities  and  the 
provision  of  policy  guidance  in  respect  thereof,  the  Borrower  shall  participate  on  the 
Electricity  Coordination  Committee,  Electricity  Market  Directorate  and  the  Electricity 
Market Working Groups. 
 
Project Monitoring

The Borrower shall:  

3. 
 

(a)  

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and 
evaluate  on  an  ongoing  basis,  in  accordance  with  the  indicators  set  forth  in  a 
supplemental letter to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

submit  to  the  Bank,  at  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  quarterly 

progress reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; 

prepare with OPCOM, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  on  or  about  March  31,  2005,  a  mid-term  review  report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  protection  of  the 
environment  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof  during  the  period  following 
such date; and 
 
(d) 

review with the Bank, by June 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, 
take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the  Project  and  the 

26-

-

achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 

 

Project Management

Not  later  than  December  31  of  each  year  during  execution  of  the  Project,  the 
4. 
Borrower  shall  cause  OPCOM  to  submit  for  the  Bank’s  review  their  updated  business 
plans  for  an  upcoming  calendar  year,  including  the  investment  program  and  financial 
projections. 
 
5
The  Borrower  shall  implement  the  Environmental  Management  Plans  (EMPs) 
approved  for  the  Fundeni  and  Iernut  substations  and  shall  include  in  the  quarterly 
progress reports to the Bank substation-specific environmental reports providing results 
of the monitoring programs included in these EMPs for each substation. 
 
6. 
Not  later  than  June  30,  2004,  or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed  between  the 
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall enter into a concession contract, satisfactory 
to the Bank, for its public domain assets with the Guarantor. 
 

27-

-

SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 

 
1. 
 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the 

table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

the  term  “eligible  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  respect  of  the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

the  term  “Authorized  Allocation”  means  the  amount  of  (cid:0)8,000,000  in 
respect of the Special Account for the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and  deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a)  of  this  Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to the amount of (cid:0)4,000,000 in respect of the Special Account until the 
aggregate  amount  of  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  plus  the  total  amount  of  all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  (cid:0)12,000,000. 

 
Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible 

2. 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 

(a) 

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the  Bank  a request  or requests  for  deposit  into  the  Special  Account of an amount  or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

 
(b) 

 

(i) 
 
 

(ii) 
 
 
 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 

Prior to  or  at the  time  of  each  such request, the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required 
pursuant  to  paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 

28-

-

basis  of  each  such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall  have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible  expenditures.  All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by 
the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible 
Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
4. 
For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special  Account,  the 
Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 

Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph  3  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  shall 

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further 
withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of  time  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank 
shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.    Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only 
after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

29-

-

(a) 

6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the 
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)  provide  such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until  the  Borrower  has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit  or  refund,  as  the 
case may be. 
 

(b) 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  amount 
outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or 

any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of 
this  Schedule  shall  be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

