CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 4705-CHA 

 

 

Loan Agreement 

(Shanghai Urban Environment Project) 
 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated November 10, 2003 
 

2

LOAN NUMBER      4705 -CHA 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

AGREEMENT, dated  November 10, 2003, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from Shanghai Municipality (Shanghai) a 
letter  dated  February  7,  2002, which  describes  a  program  designed  to  improve  urban 
environmental conditions in an integrated and sustainable manner throughout Shanghai, 
and  to  increase  access  to  environmental  services  in  poorer  and  less  well-served  areas 
within said area so as to foster sustainable growth and improve the living conditions of its 
population  (the  Program),  and  declare  Shanghai’s  commitment  to  the execution  of  said 
Program; 

(B) 

the Borrower has requested that the Bank support Shanghai’s execution 
of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately eight years to be 
utilized in the implementation of the Program;  

(C) 

the  Borrower,  having  been  satisfied  as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase 
of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 

(D) 

the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  Shanghai  with  the  Borrower’s 
assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make  the  proceeds  of  the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Shanghai, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and 

WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of  the  foregoing,  to 
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Shanghai 
(the Project Agreement); 

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 

- 2 -

through October 6, 1999) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  9.07  of  the  General  Conditions  is  modified  to  read  as 

follows: 

"(c) 

Not  later  than  six  months  before  the  Closing  Date  and  or  such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan." 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective 
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following 
meanings: 

(a) 

 “Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 

1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

“Chengtou”  means  Shanghai  Chengtou  Environment 

Industry 
Development Company Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
February  25,  2003,  and  to  Business  License  No.  3101151018232  of  the  Shanghai 
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 

(c) 

 “Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, 
title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any 
other  fixed  or  movable  asset  acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  (iii) 
access  to  productive  assets  adversely  affected,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (iv) 
business,  occupation,  work  or  place  of  residence  or  habitat  adversely  affected;  and 
“Displaced Person” means any of the Displaced Persons. 

(d) 

“Environmental  Management  Plan”  means  the  plan  prepared  by 
Shanghai, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which 
is  an  integral  part  of  the  Environmental  Assessment  Report  dated  March  2002  and  the 
supplement thereto dated March 2003, both  prepared by Shanghai; said Plan sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as said plan may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  

(e) 

“Fengxian”  means  Fengxian  District  of  Shanghai,  and  any  successor 

thereto. 

- 3 -

(f) 

“Fengjing  WPC”  means  the  Fengjing  Water  Purification  Company 
Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated September 16, 2002, and 
to  Business  License  Number  3102281012668  of  the  Jinshan  Branch  of  the  Shanghai 
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 

(g) 

“Jinshan” means Jinshan District of Shanghai, and any successor thereto. 

(h) 

“Jinshan OOC” means the Shanghai Jinshan Ocean Outfall Engineering 
General  Company  Limited,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  its  Charter  dated 
January 1993, and to Business License Number 3102281006890 of the Jinshan Branch of 
the  Shanghai  Municipal  Industrial  and  Commercial  Administration  Bureau,  and  any 
successor thereto. 

(i) 

“Hongkou”  means  Hongkou  District  of  Shanghai,  and  any  successor 

thereto. 

(j) 

“Nanpai  SDC”  means the Shanghai  Nanpai  Sewage Disposal  Company 
Limited  of  Fengxian  District,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  its  Charter  dated 
April  28,  2002  and  to  Business  License  Number  3102261013137  of  the  Shanghai 
Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 

(k) 

“Participating Districts” means, collectively, Jinshan and Fengxian; and 

“Participating District” means either of said Participating Districts.   

 

(l) 

“Project  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank  and 
Shanghai  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time;  and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(m) 

“Resettlement  Action  Plans”  and  “RAPs”  mean,  collectively:  (i)  the 
Resettlement Action Plan for Laogang Daily Waste Disposal Site dated April 2002; (ii) 
the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  for  Shanghai  Sewerage  Project  Phase  III,  dated  April  5, 
2002; (iii) the Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai Fengxian Sewage Treatment Plant 
Project,  dated  March  28,  2002;  (iv)  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  for  Fengjing  Water 
Decontamination Project in Jinshan, dated March 2002; and (v) the Resettlement Action 
Plan for Shanghai Jinshan Treated Wastewater Drainage Project – Phase II, dated March 
2002; prepared by Shanghai and the Participating Districts, respectively, and referred to 
in  paragraphs  3(b)  and  5  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,  which  set  out  the 
principles  and  procedures  governing  land  acquisition,  resettlement,  compensation  and 
rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons,  as  well  as  administrative, reporting  and  monitoring 
arrangements  to  ensure  compliance  with  said  plans,  as  said  plans  may  be  revised  from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” and “RAP” 
mean any of said Resettlement Action Plans or RAPs. 

(n) 

“Resettlement  Policy  Framework”  means  the  Policy  Framework  for 
Resettlement and Land Acquisition, dated April 2002, prepared by Shanghai, and referred 

- 4 -

to in paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the policies 
and  procedures  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement,  compensation  and  rehabilitation  of 
Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of resettlement action plans whenever required 
during the implementation of the Project, as said Policy Framework may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  

(o) 

“Respective  Parts  of  the  Project”  means:  (i)  in  respect  of  SMSC  (as 
hereinafter defined), Parts A, E and F.1 of the Project; (ii) in respect of Fengjing WPC, 
Parts D.3, E and F.1 of the Project; (iii) in respect of Jinshan OOC, Parts D.2, E and F.1 
of the Project; and (iv) in respect of Nanpai SDC, Parts D.4, E and F.1 of the Project. 

(p) 

“Respective  Resettlement  Action  Plan”  means:  (i)  in  respect  of  SMSC 
(as  hereinafter  defined)  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  for  Shanghai  Sewerage  Project 
Phase  III;  (ii)  in  respect  of  Shanghai  and  Chengtou,  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  for 
Laogang  Daily  Waste  Disposal  Site;  (iii)  in  respect  of  Jinshan  and  Jinshan  OOC,  the 
Resettlement  Action  Plan  for  Shanghai  Jinshan  Treated  Wastewater  Drainage  Project; 
(iv) in respect of Jinshan and Fengjing WPC, the Resettlement Action Plan for Fengjing 
Water  Decontamination  Project  in  Jinshan;  and  (v)  in  respect  of  Fengxian  and  Nanpai 
SDC,  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  for  Shanghai  Fengxian  Sewage  Treatment  Plant 
Project. 

(q) 

“Respective  Sewerage  Companies”  means:  (i)  in  respect  of  Jinshan, 
Fengjing  WPC  and  Jinshan  OOC,  and  any  successors  thereto;  and  (ii)  in  respect  of 
Fengxian, Nanpai SDC, and any successor thereto. 

(r) 
successor thereto. 

“Shanghai”  means  the  Borrower’s  Shanghai  Municipality,  and  any 

(s) 

“Shanghai Water Authority” and “SWA” mean the agency established in 
2000  by  Shanghai  to  manage  all  water  resources  for  Shanghai  Municipality  and 
responsible  for  planning  and  investment  strategies  for  urban  environmental  services 
related to water within Shanghai. 

(t) 

“SMSC” means the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company  Limited, a 
wholly state-owned entity, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated August 
1995 and to Business License No. 3101081016391 of the Shanghai Municipal Industrial 
and Commercial Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto, which is the recipient 
of a subsidiary loan from Shanghai in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 

(u) 

“SWEC”  means  the  Shanghai  Water  and  Environment  Construction 
Company Limited, established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated July 1999, as 
revised,  and  to  Business  License  No.  3101071019027  of  the  Shanghai  Municipal 
Industrial  and  Commercial  Administration  Bureau,  and  any  successor  thereto,  and 
referred to in paragraph 6(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 

- 5 -

(v) 

“Special  Account”  means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section  2.02  (a) of 

this Agreement. 

(w) 

“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be 
entered  into  between  Shanghai  and  SMSC,  and  between  each  Participating  District  and 
its  respective  Sewerage  Company  or  Companies,  as  the  case  may  be,  pursuant  to 
paragraphs  6  and  9,  respectively,  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,  as  the  same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to said agreements; and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, individually, 
any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 

Section  1.03.  Each  reference  in  the  General  Conditions  to  the  Project 
implementation  entity  shall  be  deemed  as  a  reference  to  Shanghai,  Shanghai  Chengtou 
Environment  Industry  Development  Company  Limited,  Shanghai  Municipal  Sewerage 
Company  Limited,  Shanghai  Water  Authority,  Shanghai  Water  and  Environment 
Construction  Company  Limited,  Jinshan  and  Fengxian  and  each  of  their  Respective 
Sewerage Companies, and Hongkou. 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and 
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000). 

Section  2.02.  (a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan 
Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars  a  special  deposit  account  in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  seizure  and 
attachment.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 

- 6 -

Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 

Section  2.05.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  at  the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 

(b) 

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date  of  this  Agreement  to,  but  excluding,  the  first  Interest 
Payment  Date  occurring  thereafter,  and  after  the  initial  period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 

“Interest  Payment  Date”  means  any  date  specified  in  Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or  next  preceding  the  first  day  of  such  Interest  Period),  as 
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a 
percentage per annum. 

“LIBOR  Total  Spread”  means,  for  each  Interest  Period:  (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted  average  margin,  for  such  Interest  Period,  below  (or 
above)  the  London  interbank  offered  rates,  or  other  reference 
rates,  for  six-month  deposits, 
the  Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include  the  Loan;  as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 

in  respect  of 

(c) 

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  LIBOR  Base  Rate  and  LIBOR 

Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)  Whenever,  in  light  of  changes  in  market  practice  affecting  the 
determination  of  the  interest  rates  referred  to  in this Section  2.06,  the  Bank  determines 

- 7 -

that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining  the  interest  rates  applicable  to  the  Loan  other  than  as  provided  in  said 
Section, the  Bank  may  modify  the  basis  for  determining  the interest  rates  applicable  to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower  
notifies  the  Bank  during  said  period  of  its  objection  thereto,  in  which  case  said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 

on February 15 and August 15 in each year.  

Section  2.08.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project,  and,  to  this  end,  without  any  limitation  or  restriction  upon  any  of  its  other 
obligations  under  the  Loan  Agreement,  shall  cause  Shanghai  to  perform  in  accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Shanghai therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shanghai to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 

(b) 

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Shanghai  

on the following principal terms: 

 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The  principal  amount  shall  be  made  available  in  Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or of payment out of the Special Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out.   

The  following  shall  be  recovered  over  a  period  of  twenty  (20) 
years,  inclusive  of  a  grace  period  of  five  (5)  years:  (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Loan.  

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn 
and  outstanding  from  time  to time  at  a  rate equal to the rate  of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 

- 8 -

(iv) 

A commitment fee shall be charged on such principal amount of 
the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to time 
at  a  rate  equal  to  three  fourths  of  one  percent  (3/4  of  1%)  per 
annum. 

Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  procurement  of  the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 

Section  3.03.  The  Bank  and  the  Borrower  hereby  agree  that  the  obligations  set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports, 
maintenance  and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  shall  be  carried  out  by  Shanghai  
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 

Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

maintain,  or  cause  to  be  maintained,  in  accordance  with  sound 
accounting  practices,  records  and  separate  accounts  reflecting 
such expenditures; 

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained, 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan 
Account was made; and 

(iii) 

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 

(b) 

The Borrower shall: 

have  the records  and accounts referred to in  paragraph  (a)(i) of 
this  Section  and  those  for  the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently  applied,  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the 
Bank;  

- 9 -

(ii) 

furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, but in any case not later 
than six (6)  months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the  Bank  shall  have  reasonably  requested,  including  a  separate 
opinion  by  said  auditors  as  to  whether  the  statements  of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and  

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank 

Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02(p)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a) 
Project Agreement. 

Shanghai  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the 

(b) 

As  a  result  of  events  which  have  occurred  after  the  date  of  the  Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shanghai will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 

(c) 

As  a  result  of  events  which  have  occurred  after  the  date  of  the  Loan 
Agreement,  a  situation  shall  have  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  Shanghai 
will carry out a substantial part of the Program. 

Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01(k)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination 

Section  6.01. The  following  event  is specified  as an additional  condition  to the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the 
General  Conditions,  namely,  that  Shanghai  and  SMSC  have  entered  into  a  Subsidiary 

- 10 -

Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 

Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional  matters,  within  the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that: 

(a) 

the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Shanghai, 

and is legally binding upon Shanghai in accordance with its terms; and 

(b)  

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Shanghai and SMSC has been 
duly executed by the parties thereto and is valid and binding on said parties in accordance 
with its terms.  

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 

specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section  7.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as 
representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions: 

- 11 -

For the Borrower: 

Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 

Cable address:    

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

FINANMIN 
Beijing  

 

22486 MFPRC CN 

(86-10) 68551125 

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
 64145 (MCI) 

(1-202) 477-6391 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

- 12 -

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly 
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective 
names in   Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 

 

 

 
 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

By 

/s/ Zou Jiayi 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By 

/s/ Yukon Huang 

Authorized Representative 

- 13 -

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be  financed  out  of  the 
1.  
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:  

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)

% of 

       Expenditures 
to be Financed

 

 

 

 

       48% 

 

 

Category

(1)  Works   
 

(a) under Part A of the Project                 108,200,000 
  (b) under Part D.2 of the Project                  5,000,000 
  (c) under Part D.3 of the Project                  2,500,000 
  (d) under Part D.4 of the Project                  1,900,000 
  (e) under other Parts of the Project 
     19,400,000 
 
(2) 

Goods   

   

 

 

 

(a) under Part A of the Project  
  (b) under Part D.2 of the Project 
  (c) under Part D.3 of the Project 
  (d) under Part D.4 of the Project 
  (e) under other Parts of the Project 

 
      

     20,000,000 
       3,100,000 
       1,600,000    
       2,000,000      
     14,200,000 

 

 

 

 
 
     100% of foreign 
     expenditures, 100% 
     of local expenditures 
     (ex-factory cost) and 

 

 

expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 

                  75% of local 

(3) 

Consultants’services 

   

 

 

     91%  

 

(a) under Part A of the Project                     2,000,000 
  (b) under other Parts of the Project              4,700,000 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

- 14 -

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)

% of 

       Expenditures 
to be Financed

Training 

       3,400,000 

                    100% 

Front-end fee 

       2,000,000 

                    Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 

Category

 
 
 

(4) 
 
(5) 
 
 
 
(6) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unallocated 

      10,000,000

TOTAL 
 

    200,000,000 

=========== 

2. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a) 

The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the 
territory  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that 
expenditures  in  the  currency  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
Borrower  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  said  region,  and  expenditures  in  the 
currency  of  the  Macau  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  Borrower  for  goods  or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 

The  term  “local  expenditures”  means  any  expenditures  that  are  not 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be 

(b) 
foreign expenditures. 

3. 
made in respect of: 

(a) 

payments  made  for  expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 1, 2002, and subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs 
(b) and (c) of this paragraph 3;  

(b)  

expenditures  under  Category  (1)(a)  until  SMSC  shall  have  engaged  the  
services  of  a  consultancy  firm  to  provide  technical  assistance  in  construction 
management  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  8  of  Schedule  2  to  the 
Project Agreement; and 

(c) 

expenditures under: 

- 15 -

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Categories  (1)(b)  and  (2)(b)  until  the  Bank  shall  have  received 
satisfactory  evidence  that  Jinshan  and  Jinshan  OOC  have  duly 
entered  into  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  9    of 
Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,  and  that  said  Subsidiary 
Loan  Agreement  is  valid  and  binding  on  Jinshan  and  Jinshan 
OOC in accordance with the terms thereof;  

Categories  (1)(c)  and  (2)(c)  until  the  Bank  shall  have  received 
satisfactory evidence that Jinshan and Fengjing WPC have duly 
entered  into  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  9    of 
Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,  and  that  said  Subsidiary 
Loan  Agreement  is  valid  and  binding  on  Jinshan  and  Fengjing 
WPC in accordance with the terms thereof; and 

Categories  (1)(d)  and  (2)(d)  until  the  Bank  shall  have  received 
satisfactory  evidence that Fengxian  and  Nanpai  SDC  have  duly 
entered  into  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  9    of 
Schedule  2  to  the  Project  Agreement,  and  that  said  Subsidiary 
Loan  Agreement  is  valid  and  binding  on  Fengxian  and  Nanpai 
SDC in accordance with the terms thereof. 

4. 
The  Bank  may  require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less $500,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $10,000,000 
equivalent  each;  (c)  services  under  contracts  (i)  with  firms,  costing  less  than  $100,000 
equivalent each, and (ii) with individuals, costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 

- 16 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project 

The Project is the first phase of the Shanghai Urban Environment Program. The 
objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality to: (i) develop 
policies  and  plans  to  support  and  enable  an  integrated  municipality-wide  approach  to 
urban environment issues, and (ii) improve environmental management and infrastructure 
services in the core city and in the upper Huangpu catchment areas. 

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objectives: 

PART A:

Urban Wastewater Management

Completion  of  the  wastewater  collection  systems  in  the  urban  core  area  of 
1. 
Shanghai  within  its  Outer  Ring  Road,  consisting  of  the  construction  of  collection  and 
trunk  sewers,  stormwater  conveyors  and  pumping  stations  in  the  Baoshan,  Zhabei, 
Hongkou, Yangpu and Pudong areas. 

2. 
Construction  of  a  main  conveyor,  including  associated  pumping  stations,  and  a 
wastewater  treatment  plant  at  Zhuyuan,  incorporating  secondary  treatment,  effluent 
discharge, and sludge disposal. 

PART B:

Urban Solid Waste Management

1. 
Expansion of the sanitary landfill at Laogang, including installation of facilities 
for leachate collection and treatment, for collection of landfill gas, and the provision of 
equipment for landfill operations. 

Establishment  of  a  food  waste  collection  system  through  the  provision  of 

2. 
equipment. 

Design  and  installation  of  a  computerized  management  information  system  for 

3. 
the management of urban solid waste. 

PART C:

Urban Planning and Upgrading

Carrying out of a pilot urban upgrading program in Hongkou District through the 
construction  of  off-site  environmental  infrastructure,  on-site  building  renovation  and 
associated infrastructure, and improvement of surrounding neighborhoods.  

 

- 17 -

PART D:

Upper Huangpu River Catchment Environmental Management

1. 
Preparation  of  an  Upper  Huangpu  Catchment  Management  Plan,  including 
analysis  of  pollution  sources,  development  of  strategies  for  pollution  control  and 
formulation of an investment plan.  

2. 
Construction  and  operation  of  a  wastewater  treatment  plant  and  sea  outfall  at 
Xinjiang in Jinshan District; construction of conveyor, secondary and tertiary collection 
sewers  and  connections  to  conveyor;  and  provision  of  mechanical  and  electrical 
equipment for related pumping stations. 

Construction  and  operation  of  a  wastewater  treatment  plant  in  the  town  of 

3. 
Fengjing in Jinshan District; and construction of collection sewers and conveyor.  

4. 
Construction and operation of a wastewater treatment plant in Fengxian District; 
extension of an existing trunk conveyor, and construction of a new trunk conveyor and 
secondary and tertiary collection sewers.  

Carrying  out  of  a  program  of  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  for  Displaced 

PART E:

Resettlement

Persons under the Project. 

PART F:

Institutional Strengthening

Strengthening the institutional capacity of Shanghai, Jinshan and Fengxian, and 
1. 
their respective relevant agencies, including institutional capacity for construction design 
and supervision, wastewater treatment plant operation, project management, procurement 
management,  and  preparation  for  successive  phases  of  the  Program,  through  the 
provision of technical assistance and training. 

2. 
Carrying  out  of  strategic  studies  and  preparatory  works,  including  studies  on 
metropolitan  water  resource  and  policy,  and  on  pollution  reduction  measures,  and 
preparatory studies on alternative funding for environmental services.  

 

 

 

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 

- 18 -

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 

 
 
Date Payment Due

Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)*

February 15, 2009 
August 15, 2009 
February 15, 2010 
August 15, 2010 
February 15, 2011 
August 15, 2011 
February 15, 2012 
August 15, 2012 
February 15, 2013 
August 15, 2013 
February 15, 2014 
August 15, 2014 
February 15, 2015 
August 15, 2015 
February 15, 2016 
August 15, 2016 
February 15, 2017 
August 15, 2017 
February 15, 2018 
August 15, 2018 
February 15, 2019 
August 15, 2019 
February 15, 2020 
August 15, 2020 
February 15, 2021 
August 15, 2021 
February 15, 2022 
August 15, 2022 
February 15, 2023 
August 15, 2023 
 
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions. 

5,840,000 
5,895,000 
5,945,000 
6,000,000 
6,055,000 
6,105,000 
6,160,000 
6,215,000 
6,275,000 
6,330,000 
6,385,000 
6,445,000 
6,500,000 
6,560,000 
6,615,000 
6,675,000 
6,735,000 
6,795,000 
6,855,000 
6,920,000 
6,980,000 
7,045,000 
7,105,000 
7,170,000 
7,235,000 
7,300,000 
7,365,000 
7,430,000 
7,495,000 
7,570,000 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 19 -

SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 

1. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a) 

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  

(b) 

the  term  “eligible  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  respect  of  the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c) 

the  term  “Authorized  Allocation”  means  the  amount  of  $14,000,000  to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate  amount  of  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  plus  the  total  amount  of  all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000. 

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible 

2. 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
3. 
has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a) 

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the  Bank  a request  or requests  for  deposit  into  the  Special  Account of an amount  or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b) 

(i) 

 

(ii) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 

Prior to  or  at the  time  of  each  such request, the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required 
pursuant  to  paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis  of  each  such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the 

- 20 -

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall  have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible  expenditures.  All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by 
the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible 
Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special  Account,  the 
4. 
Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph  3  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  shall 

5. 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further 
withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b) 

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of  time  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c) 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 

(d) 

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions,  shall  equal  the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 

(a) 

6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 

- 21 -

paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the 
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)  provide  such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until  the  Borrower  has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit  or  refund,  as  the 
case may be. 

(b) 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  amount 
outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 

(c) 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or 

any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d) 

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of 
this  Schedule  shall  be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 

 

wb204079 

 

M:\CHINA\HOI-CHAN\ShanghaiUrban\Board\LA-BOARD.doc 

June 

3, 

2003 

6:58 

PM

