CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 4683 RO 

 

 

 

 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Forest Development Project) 
 

between 
 

ROMANIA 
 

and 
 

Dated January 31, 2003 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

2

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4683 RO 

 
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 2003, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the 
Bank).  

 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project. 

 
WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of  the  foregoing,  to 
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this 
Agreement; 

 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 

 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

Section 1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through  October  6,  1999)  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of  this 
Agreement. 

 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in  the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective 
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following 
meanings: 

“DOF”  means  the  Department  of  Forests  within  MAFF  (as  defined 

hereinafter); 

“Environmental  Management  Plan”  means  the  plan,  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  providing  for  the  environmental 
requirements  for  carrying  out  of  the  Project  and  proposed  mitigation  measures,  and 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 

“Financial Monitoring Report”, or “FMR” means each report prepared in 

accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 

- 2 -

(d) 

“ForSBIC”  means  the  Forest  Business  Sector  Information  Center,  an 
independent  business  development  and  advisory  services  center,  to  be  established  and 
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 

“IAPSO”  means  the  Inter-Agency  Procurement  Services  Office  of  the 

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); 

“MAFF”  means  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Food  and  Forests  of  the 

 
(f) 
Borrower; 

“NFA”  means  the  National  Forest  Administration  under  MAAF 

established in accordance with the Borrower’s Government Decision No. 173/2001; 

“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower, 

and referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 

“PMU” means the Project Management Unit under MAFF to be formally 
established  pursuant  to  a  Borrower’s  Ministerial  Order,  or  any  legal  successor  thereto 
satisfactory to the Bank; 

“POC” means the Project Oversight Committee to be established by the 

Borrower and referred to in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 

“Special  Account”  means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section  2.02(b)  of  

this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 

 
Section 2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-five  
million Dollars  ($25,000,000). 

 
Section 2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan 
Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars  a  special  deposit  account  in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  seizure  and 

 
(e) 

 
(g) 

 
(h) 

 
(i) 

 
(j) 

 
(k) 

 
(b) 

- 3 -

attachment.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  

 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 

one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan on or promptly after the Effective Date.  

 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 

 
Section 2.06. 

 
(b) 

For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date  of  this  Agreement  to,  but  excluding,  the  first  Interest 
Payment  Date  occurring  thereafter,  and  after  the  initial  period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 

“Interest  Payment  Date”  means  any  date  specified  in  Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in U.S. dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial  Interest  Period,  for  value  the  Interest  Payment  Date 
occurring  on  or  next  preceding  the  first  day  of  such  Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 

“LIBOR  Total  Spread”  means,  for  each  Interest  Period:  (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted  average  margin,  for  such  Interest  Period,  below  (or 
above)  the  London  interbank  offered  rates,  or  other  reference 
rates,  for  six-month  deposits, 
the  Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include  the  Loan;  as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 

in  respect  of 

- 4 -

(c) 

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  LIBOR  Base  Rate  and  LIBOR 

Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

 
(d)  Whenever,  in  light  of  changes  in  market  practice  affecting  the 
determination  of  the  interest  rates  referred  to  in this Section  2.06,  the  Bank  determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining  the  interest  rates  applicable  to  the  Loan  other  than  as  provided  in  said 
Section, the  Bank  may  modify  the  basis  for  determining  the interest  rates  applicable  to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies  the  Bank  during  said  period  of  its  objection  thereto,  in  which  case  said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 

 
Section 2.07. 

Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable  semiannually  in 

arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 

 
Section 2.08.   The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 

 
(b)  

 
(c) 

 
Section 3.01. 

(a)  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of 
the  Project,  and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  through  MAFF,  with  due 
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  financial, 
technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, 
the Borrower shall open a Project account under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank  promptly  after  effectiveness  and  shall  ensure  that  adequate  budgetary  allocations 
shall be made to the Project account each calendar quarter during Project implementation 
for financing Project expenditures. 

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  procurement  of  the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

- 5 -

 
(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

Section  3.03.    For  the  purposes  of  Section  9.07  of  the  General  Conditions  and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed  for  this  purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  a  plan  for  the  future 
operation of the Project; and 
 

(b) 

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  the 

Borrower on said plan. 

 
ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

 
Section 4.01. 

(a)  The  Borrower,  through  MAFF,  shall  maintain  a  financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations,  resources  and 
expenditures related to the Project. 

The Borrower shall, through MAFF: 
 
(i) 

have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  consistently  applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this  Section  for  such  year as  so  audited, and  (B)  an opinion  on 
such  statements,  records  and  accounts  and report  of such  audit, 
by  said  auditors,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 

For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 
Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure,  the  Borrower,  through 
MAFF, shall: 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 
 
(iv) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

- 6 -

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained,  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records  and  separate  accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank  has  received  the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the  Loan  Account  was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  such 
expenditures; 

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit  referred  to  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as  to  whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during 
such  fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and  internal 
controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to 
support the related withdrawals. 

(a)  Without  limitation  upon  the  Borrower’s  progress  reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, 
through MAFF, prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 

 
Section 4.02. 

 

sets  forth  sources  and  uses  of  funds  for  the  Project,  both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 

describes  physical  progress  in  Project  implementation,  both 
cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  and 
explains  variances  between  the  actual  and  planned  Project 
implementation; and 

(iii) 

sets forth  the  status  of  procurement  under  the  Project,  as  at  the 
end of the period covered by said report. 

 

 

- 7 -

(b)  

The  first  FMR  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five 
(45)  days  after  the  end  of  the  first  calendar  quarter  after  the  Effective  Date,  and  shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  each  subsequent  calendar  quarter,  and  shall  cover 
such calendar quarter. 

 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness and Termination 

 
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the 
General  Conditions,  namely  that  the  procurement  specialist  for  the  PMU  has  been 
appointed with qualifications, experiences and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 

 
Section 5.02.  The  date  one-hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of 
this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the  General 
Conditions. 
 

ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 

For the Borrower: 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 

Telex:   

11239 

 

 

 

Facsimile: 

401 312 6792 

- 8 -

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 

Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
  64145 (MCI) 

(202) 477-6391 

 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly 
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

ROMANIA 

By 

/s/  Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By 

/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 

Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

- 9 -

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

1.  

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 

 

 
 

Category

(1)  Works 
 
(2)  Goods 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)  Consultants’ Services 
including audit 
 
 
services and training 
 
(4) 
 
(5)      Incremental Operating 
 
 

Technical Services 

Costs: 

(a)  other than for  
 Part C of the Project 
 
(b)  for ForSBIC under 
Part C of the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars)

% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed

12,700,000 

 

 

80% 

3,000,000 

100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of  
local expenditures for other items  
procured  locally 

3,000,000 
 

100% of foreign expenditures and 
80% of local expenditures 

2,350,000 

 

 

80% 

 

 

2,400,000 

 

 

80% 

250,000 
 

95% of expenditures incurred 
prior to July 31, 2004;  
75% of expenditures incurred  
prior to July 31, 2005;  
50% of expenditures incurred  
prior to July 31, 2006;   
25% of expenditures incurred  
prior to July 31, 2007 

(6)  Unallocated 

1,300,000

TOTAL 

25,000,000

- 10 -

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

2. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 

the  term  “foreign  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of 
any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;   

the  term  “technical  services”  means  the  design  and  installation  of  new 

software packages, including maintenance and software upgrades; and 
 

(d) 

the  term  “incremental  operating  costs”  means  the  following  recurrent 
expenditures  incurred  with  the  respect  of  management  and  coordination  of  Project 
activities: (i) for the PMU: staff salaries (excluding government employees) and staff per 
diems as well as travel costs for field trips related to the implementation of the Project; 
insurance  and 
office  supplies  and  utilities;  communications  costs;  operations, 
maintenance for vehicles and equipment procured for the Project; and (ii) for ForSBIC: 
staff  salaries  (excluding  government  employees),  office  maintenance,  vehicle  operation 
and maintenance, publications, promotions and auditing services. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement  has  been  paid; and  (b)  payments  made  for  expenditures prior to the  date  of 
this  Agreement  except  for  withdrawals:  (i)  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the 
equivalent of $200,000, may be made in respect of Category (3); and (ii) in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, may be made in respect of Category (5), 
on  account  of  payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that  date  but  after  November  1, 
2002. 
 
4. 
The  Bank  may  require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and technical services 
under  contracts  costing  less  than  $100,000  equivalent  each;  (b)  works  under  contracts 
costing  less  than  $1,000,000  equivalent  each;  (c)  consultants’  services  under  contracts 
with  consultant  firms  costing  less  than  $200,000  equivalent  each;  (d)  consultants’ 
services under contracts with individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent 
each; (e) training; and (f) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 

- 11 -

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 

 
The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  maintain  and  improve  environmentally 
sustainable  management  of  private  and  state  owned  forests  so  as  to  increase  the 
contribution from forest resources to the national and rural economies.  

 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Establish a system to ensure sustainable management of private forest lands

1. 
Strengthen the capacity of the DOF to provide extension and advisory services to 
meet  the  needs  of  private  forest  owners,  as  well  as  supervise,  regulate  and  monitor 
sustainable forest management activities in private and state owned forest lands, through: 
(a)  provision  of  services  and  training;  and  (b)  provision  of  goods  and  equipment, 
including  office furniture and  equipment,  equipment  for  operating  in the field,  vehicles 
needed for field inspections and training equipment. 
 
Support,  through  MAFF,  the  establishment  and  operation  of  national  and  local 
2.   
associations of private forest owners, including providing assistance for the development 
of  membership  profiles, 
recruitment  plans,  service-delivery  profiles,  business 
development  plans,  and  capacity  building  for  financial  and  procurement  management 
through the provision of training and services. 
 
3. 
Support  the  establishment  of  a  national  forest  management  information  and 
monitoring  system,  through  the  provision  of  services,  including  technical  services,  and 
training. 
 
Part B: Mitigate the consequences of forest land 

  restitution on management of state forest land

1. 
Support the NFA in developing and implementing a strategic plan, acceptable to 
MAFF, to strengthen and finance NFA’s role in managing state owned forests, through 
provision of services, training, and goods. 
 
2. 
Rehabilitate and expand forest road network to reduce the environmental impact 
and improve the economic viability of wood harvesting in state owned production forests, 
through the provision of works, services and goods. 
 

- 12 -

Part C: Support increased productivity and competitiveness of forest industry

Support  the  establishment  and  operation  of  ForSBIC  in  order  to  increase  the 
productivity and competitiveness of the forest industry, through provision of services and 
goods. 
 
Part D: Build public support for sustainable forest management

Prepare and implement a public awareness strategy and campaign targeting key 
stakeholders,  including  the  general  public,  non-governmental  organizations,  NFA  and 
Government decision makers,  to build public support for sustainable forest management, 
through provision of services, training, and goods. 
 
Part E: Project management

Provision  of  services,  training,  goods  and  financing  of  operating  costs  to  assist 

the PMU in Project management and implementation. 

 

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 

- 13 -

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)

1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,040,000 
1,040,000
1,080,000

25,000,000

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Date Payment Due

August 15, 2008 
February 15, 2009 
August 15, 2009 
February 15, 2010 
August 15, 2010 
February 15, 2011 
August 15, 2011 
February 15, 2012 
August 15, 2012 
February 15, 2013 
August 15, 2013 
February 15, 2014 
August 15, 2014 
February 15, 2015 
August 15, 2015 
February 15, 2016 
August 15, 2016 
February 15, 2017 
August 15, 2017 
February 15, 2018 
August 15, 2018 
February 15, 2019 
August 15, 2019 
February 15, 2020 

TOTAL 

- 14 -

SCHEDULE 4 

Procurement 

 
Section I. Procurement of Goods, Works and Technical Services

 

Part A: General

Goods,  works  and  technical  services  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September  1997  and  January  1999  (the  Guidelines)  and  the  following  provisions  of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  C  of  this  Section,  goods,  works  and 
1. 
technical  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
The following provisions shall apply to goods, works and technical services to be 
2. 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of 
this Part B. 

Grouping of contracts

To the  extent  practicable, contracts for  goods  shall  be  grouped  in  bid packages 

estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.54  and  2.55  of  the  Guidelines  and  Appendix  2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1. 

National Competitive Bidding

Works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $1,000,000  equivalent  per  contract,  may  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 

- 15 -

2. 

International Shopping

Goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000  equivalent  per  contract,  may  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  international  shopping  procedures  in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 

National Shopping

Goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  per  contract,  may  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  national  shopping  procedures  in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 

Procurement from UN Agencies

Goods and technical services under Part C.2. of this Schedule, may be procured 

from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D: Additional Provisions Regarding the National Competitive Bidding Procedures

When  procuring  works  in  accordance  to  the  procedure  referred  to  in  Section  I, 
C.1. of this Schedule, the following procedures shall be followed: (a) a point system of 
evaluation will not be used; (b) domestic preference will not be applied; (c) international 
bidders  will  not  be  excluded  from  bidding;  (d)  the  draft  bidding  documents  will  be 
prepared  and  submitted  to  the  Bank  for  review  and  no-objection  before  any  tender  is 
issued; (e) no bids will be rejected at the bid opening; (f) all bids submitted on or before 
the deadline for submission of bids will be opened and read out at public bid opening; (g)  
bidders  shall  demonstrate  availability  of  obtaining  securities  and  reasonable  access  to 
credit;  (h)  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  pre-disclosed  to  bidders;  and  (i)  technical 
specifications shall be clearly written. 

 

Part E:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1. 

Procurement Planning

Prior  to  the  issuance  of  any  invitations  to  bid  for  contracts,  the  proposed 
procurement  plan  for  the  Project  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and 
approval,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  Appendix  1  to  the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 

- 16 -

2. 

Prior Review

(a) 

With  respect  to  each  contract  for:  (i)  each  contract  procured  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Part  B  of  this  Section;  and  (ii)  the  first  contract 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 

(b)  With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.2 of this Section above, the following procedures shall apply: 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

prior  to  the  selection  of  any  supplier/execution  of  any  contract 
under  shopping  procedures,  the  Borrower  shall  provide  to  the 
Bank  a  report  on  the  comparison  and  evaluation  of  quotations 
received; 

prior  to  the  execution  of  any  contract  procured  under  shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 

the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2(f),  2(g)  and  3  of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  paragraph  2  of  this  Part,  the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II. Employment of Consultants

3. 

Post Review

Part A: General

Consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  “Guidelines:    Selection  and  Employment  of  Consultants  by 
World  Bank  Borrowers”  published  by  the  Bank  in  January  1997  and  revised  in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection

1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the  Consultant  Guidelines,  and  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3.13  through  3.18  thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 

- 17 -

2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list  of  consultants  for  services  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $200,000  equivalent  per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

1. 

Selection Under a Fixed Budget

Services under Part D of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 

accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 

Least-cost Selection

Services for auditing estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

3. 

Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

Services  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000  equivalent  per  contract  may  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 

Individual Consultants

Services  for  tasks  that  meet  the  requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  5.1  of  the 
Consultant  Guidelines  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  to  individual 
consultants  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  5.1  through  5.3  of  the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1. 

Selection Planning

A plan  for  the  selection  of  consultants,  which  shall  include  contract  cost 
estimates,  contract  packaging,  and  applicable selection  criteria  and  procedures, shall  be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any  requests  for  proposals.    Such  plan  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  during  the 
execution  of  the  Project,  and  each  such  updating  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  for  its 
review  and  approval.    Selection  of  all  consultants’  services  shall  be  undertaken  in 
accordance  with  such  selection  plan  (as  updated  from  time  to  time)  as  shall  have  been 
approved by the Bank. 
 

- 18 -

2. 

Prior Review

(a) 

With  respect  to  each  contract  for  the  employment  of  consulting  firms  
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth  in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 

(b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  the  employment  of  individual 
consultants  to  be selected on  a  sole source basis,  or estimated  to  cost the equivalent  of 
$25,000  or  more,  the  report  on  the  comparison  of  the  qualifications  and  experience  of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the  consultants  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  for  its  prior  review  and  approval.    The 
contract  shall  be  awarded  only  after  the  said  approval  shall  have  been  given.    The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
3. 

Post Review

With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  paragraph  2  of  this  Part,  the 
procedures  set  forth  in  paragraph  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Consultant  Guidelines  shall 
apply. 

- 19 -

SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 

 
1. 

The Borrower, through MAFF, shall: 
 
(a) 

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about April 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and  evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  on  the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out  of  the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof  during  the  period 
following such date; and 

review  with  the  Bank,  by  June  30,  2005 or such later  date  as  the  Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the  Project  and  the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
 

The Borrower, through MAFF, shall: 

(a) 

maintain the PMU within MAFF with such staff and resources as shall be 
required  for  the  PMU  to  perform  its  duties  in  respect  of  the  overall  management  and 
implementation of the Project, in accordance with the PIP and satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 

(b) 

establish,  not  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  Effective  Date,  and 
thereafter  maintain  a  Project  Oversight  Committee  comprising  the  representatives  of 
DOF, MAFF, Ministry of Public Finance, and civil society representatives, which shall 
provide  oversight  and  policy  guidance  for  Project  implementation.  The  Borrower  shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP including an implementation plan for the 
Project and key instruments for the execution and coordination of the Project (including 
procurement and financial management procedures); and shall not amend the PIP without 
the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
3. 
For the purposes of  Part B of the Project,  NFA shall assist the Borrower to carry 
out the Project by providing supervision and oversight in the implementation of this Part 
of  the  Project,  and  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  NFA  receives  adequate  support  and 
resources for this purpose. 
 

- 20 -

4. 
 

8. 
 

For the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower, through MAAF, shall:  

(a)  

ensure  that  the  guidelines  for  environmental  review  and  screening  of 
the 

included 

in 

forest  road  network  expansion  and  rehabilitation  sub-projects 
Environmental Management Plan are followed by NFA; and  
 

(b)  

take all necessary actions to mitigate, if necessary, any aggregate effects 
of Part B.2 of the Project on the environment in accordance with applicable laws and the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through MAFF, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Environmental  Management  Plan,  including  environmental  mitigation,  monitoring,  and 
institutional measures for the execution of the Project; and shall ensure that all measures 
necessary for the carrying out such Plan shall be taken in a timely manner. 
 
6. 
Not later than March 30, 2004, the Borrower, through MAAF, shall provide for 
the  establishment  of  ForSBIC,  under  applicable  Romanian  law,  with  objectives  
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
7. 
The Borrower, through MAAF, shall develop and agree with the Bank by June 
30,  2004  on  an  action  plan,  supported  by  studies  as  necessary,  which  shall  include  an 
implementation  schedule,  addressing  the  human  resource  and  institutional  needs  of  the 
DOF and immediately thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the schedule. 

 
The Borrower, through MAAF, shall :  

(a)  

undertake  and  complete  by  September  30,  2004  a  study  on  a  timber 
pricing policy, as a part of the activities to be carried out under Part B of the Project, in 
accordance with terms and reference acceptable to the Bank; and 
 

(b) 

develop  and  agree  with  the  Bank  by  November  30,  2004  on  an  action 
plan, including an implementing schedule, addressing the recommendations of the study 
referenced  in  paragraph  (a)  above,  and  immediately  thereafter  implement  the  plan  in 
accordance with the schedule. 
 

- 21 -

SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 

 
1. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

the  term  “eligible  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  respect  of  the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and incremental operating costs required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 

the  term  “Authorized  Allocation”  means  an  amount  equivalent  to 
$1,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Authorized  Allocation  shall  be  limited  to  an  amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
plus  the  total  amount  of  all  outstanding  special  commitments  entered  into  by  the  Bank 
pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  shall  be  equal  to  or  exceed  the 
equivalent of $3,000,000. 
 
2. 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
3. 
has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible 

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the  Bank  a request  or requests  for  deposit  into  the  Special  Account of an amount  or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(i) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 

 
(b) 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

- 22 -

(ii) 

Prior to  or  at the  time  of  each  such request, the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required 
pursuant  to  paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis  of  each  such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall  have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible  expenditures.  All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by 
the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible 
Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 

 
4. 
For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special  Account,  the 
Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph  3  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  shall 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further 
withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of  time  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 

(d) 

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special  commitments  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank 
shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only 
after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts 

- 23 -

(a) 

remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the 
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)  provide  such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until  the  Borrower  has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit  or  refund,  as  the 
case may be. 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  amount 
outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or 

any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of 
this  Schedule  shall  be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

