CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN  NUMBER 7226 HR 

Loan Agreement 

(Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project)  
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated July 2, 2004 

- 2 -

 

LOAN NUMBER 7226 HR 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

 
AGREEMENT,  dated  July  2,  2004,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  CROATIA  (the 
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

and 
Borrower) 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated May 29, 2003, 
describing a program designed to improve the provision of efficient and sustainable sanitation 
services  in the  Borrower’s  coastal cities  and  improve  coastal  water  quality  along  the  Adriatic 
Coast  (the  Program)  and  declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  such 
Program; and 

the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of three phases of 
the  Program  through  a  series  of  loans  up  to  Euro  140,000,000  equivalent  over  a  period  of 
approximately  ten  (10)  years  to  be  utilized  by  the  Borrower  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Program; and 

the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Program; 

Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by Hrvatske vode (HV), 
through the Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC), with the Borrower’s assistance and, 
as  part  of  such  assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make  the  proceeds  of  the  loan  provided  for  in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to HV, as set forth in this Agreement, and Part 
C.1 of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through the Ministry of Environmental 
Protection and Physical Planning and Construction Environment (MoE); and 

 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and HV (the Project Agreement); 
 

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  

 
(B)  

 
(C)  

 
(D)   

 

ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 

 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for  Fixed-Spread  Loans”  of  the  Bank,  dated  September  1,  1999  (the  General  Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 

- 2 -

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in  the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 

 
(a) 

“Financial  Monitoring  Report”  or  “FMR”  means  each  report  prepared  in 

accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 

(b) 

“Hrvatske vode” or “HV” means the state agency of the Borrower responsible 
for  national  water  resource  management,  established  pursuant  to  the  Water  Act  of  1995 
(Official Gazette No. 107/95); 
 

(c) 

“MoE”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Environmental  Protection  and 

Physical Planning and Construction, or any legal successor thereto; 
 

(d) 

“MWSC”  means  Municipal  Water  and  Sewerage  Company  duly  established 
under  the  Borrower’s  laws  and  eligible,  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the 
Operational Manual, for receiving a Sub-project Loan to be financed from the Loan proceeds 
under Part A of the Project; 
 

(e) 

“Operational Manual” means a manual adopted by HV setting forth eligibility 
criteria  for  participating  MWSCs  and  Sub-projects,  the  procedures  for  selecting,  appraising, 
approving and supervising of Sub-projects, and the terms and conditions of Sub-project Loans;  
 

(f) 

 “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and HV of even 
date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time;  and  such  term  includes  all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 

“Special  Account”  means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section  2.02  (b)  of  this 

(g) 
Agreement; 
 

(h) 

“SPSC”  means  the  Special  Purpose  Subsidiary  Company  of  HV  to  be 
established  pursuant  to  Section  6.01  (b)  of  this  Agreement  and  which  will  be  responsible  for 
implementation  of  Sub-projects,  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  for  the  benefit  of  MWSCs  and 
under Parts B and C.2 for the benefit of HV;  
 

(i) 

“Sub-project”  means  an  investment  project  eligible,  in  accordance  with  the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, for financing from the Loan proceeds under Part A 
of the Project; 
 

(j) 

“Sub-project Loan” means a loan to be provided to an eligible MWSC from the 

proceeds of the Loan for financing a Sub-project under Part A of the Project; and  
 

(k) 

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the  Borrower  and  HV  pursuant  to  Section  3.01  (b)  of  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be 
amended  from  time  to  time;  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  to  the  Subsidiary  Loan 
Agreement. 
 

- 3 -

ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 

Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 

entity shall be deemed as a reference to HV. 

 

 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  forty  million  Euro               
(Euro  40,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 

 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the  Bank  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works  and 
services  required for  the  Project and to  be financed out  of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan,  and  any 
premium  in  respect  of  an  Interest  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  payable  by  the  Borrower  in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 

 
(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Euro a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  seizure  and  attachment.  Deposits  into,  and 
payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2008, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 

one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan on or promptly after the Effective Date. 

 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  equal  to:  (i)  eighty-five  one-
hundredths of one percent (0.85%) from the date on which such charge commences to accrue in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including 
the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) 
thereafter. 

 
Section  2.06.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the  Loan,  the  Borrower  shall,  during  the  Conversion  Period,  pay  interest  on  such  amount  in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 

 
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 

- 4 -

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 

with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  

 
Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; 

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 

the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  said 
Variable Rate. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly  after  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate 
Collar  in  respect  of  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be  paid  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan 
Account and pay to itself that amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 

 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Loan  Agreement,  shall cause  HV  to  perform  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of  the  Project 
Agreement  all  the  obligations  therein  set  forth,  shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  actions, 
including  the  provision  of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources,  necessary  or 
appropriate  to  perform  such  obligations,  and  shall  not  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  any  action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 

 
(b)  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  and 
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  HV  to 

- 5 -

(i) 
 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 

(c) 

For the purpose of implementing Parts A, B, and C.2, the Borrower shall relend 
the proceeds of the Loan to HV, allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) in the 
table  in  paragraph  1  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  (Subsidiary  Loan),  under  a  Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HV under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include inter alia, the following 
conditions:  
 

the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Euro; 

the  Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be  charged  semi-annually,  on  the  principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest 
at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.06 of this Agreement; 

the  Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be  repaid  with  an  amortization  schedule 
calculated  to  have  a  maturity  of  not  more  than  fifteen  (15)  years, 
including a grace period of not more than five (5) years.  

 

(d) 

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the 
purposes  of  the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 

 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use  of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance  and  land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by HV, through SPSC, pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 

Section  4.01.  (a) The  Borrower  shall  and  shall  cause  HV,  through  SPSC,  to  maintain 
financial management systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 

- 6 -

The Borrower shall: 

(b) 
 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 
 
(iii) 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(c) 

 

 

commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  Effective  Date  falls,  to 
and  including  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  last  withdrawal  from  the 
Loan is made, have the  financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of  this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited,  in  accordance  with 
consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six  (6)  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year  or  such  other  period 
agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 

 

(iii) 

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts,  and  the  audit  of  such  financial  statements,    and  concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 

were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank  has  received  the  audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the  Loan  Account  was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are included in 
the  audit  for  each  fiscal  year  or  other  period  agreed  to  by  the  Bank, 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 

Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 

sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  showing  separately  funds 
provided under the Loan and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds; 

describes  physical  progress 
implementation,  both 
cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  and  explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 

in  Project 

(iii) 

sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 

 

(b) 

The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after  the  end  of  the  first  calendar  quarter  after  the  Effective  Date,  and  shall  cover  the  period 
from  the  incurrence  of  the  first  expenditure  under  the  Project  through  the  end  of  such  first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 

- 7 -

 

ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 

 
Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (p)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  following 
additional events, which may give the right to the Bank to suspend withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, are specified: 
 

HV  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project 

(a) 
Agreement; 
 

(b) 

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that HV will be able 
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
 

(c) 

The Water Act of 1995 (Official Gazette No. 107/95) shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
HV to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 

Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (k)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  following 

additional events are specified: 

The  event  specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.01  of  this  Agreement  shall 
occur  and  shall  continue  for  a  period  of  sixty  (60)  days  after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 

Any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 
shall occur. 

 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 

 
Section  6.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional  conditions  to  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General 
Conditions:   

- 8 -

that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the 

(b) 

SPSC has been established in accordance with applicable laws of the Borrower; 

(a) 
Borrower and HV;  
 

and  

 
(c) 

the  Accounting  Manual  of  Procedures  has  been  adopted  by  SPSC  and  a 

satisfactory financial management system has been established within SPSC. 

 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section  12.02  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be 
furnished to the Bank: 
 

(a) 

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HV, and is 

legally binding upon HV in accordance with its terms; and 
 

(b) 

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower  and  HV  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  HV  in  accordance  with  its 
terms.  

 
Section 6.03. The date one-hundred twenty (120) days after the date of the signing of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 

ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 

the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 

 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 

the General Conditions: 
 

For the Borrower: 

Ministry of Finance 
Katan(cid:0)i(cid:0)eva 5 
Zagreb 10000 
Republic of Croatia 

 

 

862-21215   
862-21833 

Telex:   

Facsimile: 

(385-1) 4922-598 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

- 9 -

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
  64145 (MCI) 

(202) 477-6391 

 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly  authorized 
representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective  names  in  Zadar, 
Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 

By  /s/  Ivan Suker 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By  /s/  Anand K. Seth 

 

Authorized Representative  
 

- 10 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the  Loan,  the  allocation  of  the  amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Category

(1)  Works 

(2)  Goods 

(3)  Consultants’ services 

and training 

(5)  Unallocated 

TOTAL 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
Expressed in Euro

 

% of Expenditures 
to be financed

28,500,000 

50% 

 

 

 

 

 
 

50% 

50% 

5,100,000 

3,400,000 
 

3,000,000

40,000,000 
======== 

(4)  Premia for Interest Rate 

Caps and Interest Rate Collars 

- 
 

Amount due under  
Section 2.09 (c) of this  
Agreement 

 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an amount not exceeding Euro 4,000,000 may be made on account of payments 
made  for  expenditures  under  Categories  (1),  (2)  and  (3)  before  that  date  but  after          
September  1,  2003;  and  (b)  any  expenditures  under  any  Category  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1 
above  unless  the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of  the  front-end  fee  referred  to  in          
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures  under  contracts  for:  (a)  goods  costing  less  than     
Euro  500,000  equivalent  per  contract,  with  the  exception  of  the  first  contracts  procured  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Part  C.1  and  C.2  of  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Project 
Agreement; (b) works costing less than Euro 1,000,000 equivalent per contract, except for the 
first  contracts  procured  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Part  C.1  and  C.3  of  Section  I  of 
Schedule I to the Project Agreement; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
Euro  50,000  equivalent  per  contract;  and  (d)  for  services  of  consulting  firms  under  contracts 
costing less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 

- 11 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 

 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of the Borrower’s Adriatic coastal 
waters through: (a) supporting the strengthening of the institutional arrangements for financing 
and  management  of  wastewater  management  in  Croatia;  and  (b)  financing  of  wastewater 
collection, treatment and disposal infrastructure in selected coastal municipalities. 

 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 

Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Investments

Financing and carrying out of Sub-projects for construction and expansion of sewerage 
networks  and  for  construction,  rehabilitation  and  expansion  of  main  collectors,  pumping 
stations, wastewater treatment facilities and submarine outfalls in selected MWSCs. 
 
Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Program Management 

1. 

Design and implementation of an institutional framework for water pollution control. 

Completion  of  engineering  designs  and  environmental  and  social  assessments  for 
2. 
investments after the first phase of the Program and supervision of investments financed under 
Sub-projects. 
 
3. 
monitoring and financial management. 

Strengthening  SPSC’s  capacity  for  Project  implementation,  including  evaluation, 

4. 

Strengthening management, operational efficiency and financial viability of MWSCs. 

Part C: Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network

Improving  the  capacity  of  the  MoE  network  of  laboratories  for  environmental 

1. 
monitoring to assess Program impact on coastal waters quality. 
 
2. 
Improving  the  capacity  of  HV’s  laboratories  to  assess  individual  discharges  of 
municipalities  and  industries,  to  determine  the  overall  pollutants  load  contributed  by  the 
Borrower  to  the  Adriatic  sea  and  evaluate  and  control  the  efficiency  of  the  financed 
infrastructure. 

 
* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2008. 

- 12 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 
The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by       
(b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayment  amount  to  be 
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to 
which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 

 

Payment Date

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)

On each April 15th and October 15th  
beginning October 15, 2009 through April 15, 2019 

 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

5% 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of 
which  shall  be  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum  of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date,  such  repayment  amounts  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to 
deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
3. 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(a) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (a)  of  this  paragraph  3,  if  at 
any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

- 13 - 

after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 

 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the 
Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  said 
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall 
be  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply 
separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 

- 14 - 

SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 

The Borrower shall delegate to HV the responsibility for implementation of  Parts A, B 

 
1. 
and C.2  of the Project, and to MoE for the implementation of Part C.1 of the Project.    
 
2. 
The Borrower: (a) shall cause HV, through SPSC, to implement Parts A, B and C.2  of 
the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the 
Operational Manual; and (b) shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual 
or any provisions thereof, without the Bank’s prior concurrence.  
 
3. 

The Borrower shall and shall cause HV, through SPSC, to: 
 
(a)  

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  them  to  monitor  and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 

prepare,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the 
Bank,  on  or  about  September  1,  2005,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient  carrying  out  of  the  Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 

review with the Bank, by January 1, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request,  the  report  referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  (b)  of  this  paragraph,  and,  thereafter,  take  all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives  thereof,  based  on  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the  said  report  and  the 
Bank’s views on the matter.  

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

- 15 - 

SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 
1. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 

table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 

the  term  “eligible  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  respect  of  the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

the  term  “Authorized  Allocation”  means  the  amount  of  Euro  1,500,000 
equivalent  in  respect  of  the  Special  Account  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and 
deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a)  of  this  Schedule,  provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to the amount of Euro 500,000 equivalent until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions    shall  be  equal  to  or  exceed  the 
equivalent of Euro 2,000,000. 
 
2. 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
After  the  Bank  has  received  evidence  satisfactory  to  it  that  the  Special  Account  has 
3. 
been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible 

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the  Bank  shall,  on behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw from  the  Loan  Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 

(i) 

(ii) 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the  Bank  requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish 
to  the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which  replenishment  is  requested.  On  the  basis  of  each  such  request, 
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan 
Account  and  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  such  amount  as  the 
Borrower  shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been  shown  by  said 

- 16 - 

documents  and  other  evidence  to  have  been  paid  out  of  the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible 
Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 

 
For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower 
4. 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further  withdrawals 
should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this 
Agreement; 

if  the  Borrower  shall  have  failed  to  furnish  to  the  Bank,  within  the  period  of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  notified  the  Borrower  of  its  intention  to 
suspend  in  whole  or  in  part  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 

(d) 

once  the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible 
Categories  for  the  Special  Account,  minus  the  total  amount  of  all  outstanding  special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  payment  out  of  the 
Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an  expenditure  or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 

(a) 

- 17 - 

into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 

 
(b) 

 
(d) 

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  such  outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c) 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or  any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of  this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of this  Agreement,  including  the  General  Conditions.

 

