CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 4734 MK 
 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan) 
 

between  
 

and 
 

FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
(The Borrower) 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
(The Bank) 

Dated July 15, 2004 
 

P:\MODEL\LOAN\LA-SAL.DOC 

LOAN NUMBER 4734 MK 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2004, between the Borrower and  the Bank. 
WHEREAS  (A)  the  Bank  has  received  from  the  Borrower,  a  letter  dated 
April 9,2004,  describing  a  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s public sector (the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  

(B) 

 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided, in support 
of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

 Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through  October  6,  1999),  with  the  modifications  set  forth  below  (the  General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 

(a) 

Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: 

 

“‘Project’  means  the  program,  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to  the  Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 

 (b) 

Section 4.01 is modified to read: 

the  Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree, 
“Except  as  the  Bank  and 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”; 

(c) 

Section 5.01 is modified to read: 

- 2 -

“The  Borrower  shall  be  entitled  to  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 

(d) 

The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 

(e) 

Section 9.07(c) is modified to read: 

“(c) 
Not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date  or  such  later 
date  as  may  be  agreed  for  this  purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the 
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  a  report  of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution  of  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to  the  Loan 
Agreement,  the  performance  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  of  their 
respective  obligations  under 
the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”;  and 

the  Loan  Agreement 

and 

(f) 

Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 

and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.  

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective 
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following 
meanings: 

 (a) 

“Deposit  Account”  means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section  2.02(b)  of 

this Agreement; 

(b) 
successor thereto; 

thereto;  

(d) 
thereto; and 

“HIF”  means  the  Health  Insurance  Fund  of  the  Borrower,  or  any 

(c) 

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, or any successor 

“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower, or any successor 

(e) 

 “Memorandum  of  Understanding”  means 

the  Memorandum  of 
Understanding  regarding  the  procedures  to  be  used  for  procurement  of  pharmaceuticals 
agreed upon between the MOF, MOH and HIF on October 27, 2003. 

- 3 -

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and 
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of the Loan from the Loan 
Account in support of the Program. 

(b)  

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account,  and  thereafter  maintain  in  its  central  bank,  a 
deposit  account  in  Dollars  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.    All 
withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  the  Deposit 
Account. 

(c) 

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to  finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall  have  been  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  expenditure so  excluded, the  Borrower 
shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (i)  deposit  into  the  Deposit  Account  an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such  amount  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  Bank  upon  such  request  shall  be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 

(d) 

No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  have  reached  the 
amount of $10,300,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 

(A) 

(B) 

with the progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  the  carrying  out 
of the Program; 

that  the  macroeconomic  policy  framework  of  the  Borrower  is 
satisfactory,  as  measured  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and 

- 4 -

(C) 

that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken. 

If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have  taken  steps  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  in  respect  of  (A),  (B),  and  (C)  above,  as  the 
case  may  be,  then  the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  cancel  the  unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent  (1%)  of  the  amount  of  the  Loan.    On  or  promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.  

Section  2.05.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  at  the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 

(b) 

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date  of  this  Agreement  to,  but  excluding,  the  first  Interest 
Payment  Date  occurring  thereafter,  and  after  the  initial  period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 

“Interest  Payment  Date”  means  any  date  specified  in  Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or  next  preceding  the  first  day  of  such  Interest  Period),  as 

- 5 -

reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a 
percentage per annum. 

(iv) 

“LIBOR  Total  Spread”  means,  for  each  Interest  Period:  (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted  average  margin,  for  such  Interest  Period,  below  (or 
above)  the  London  interbank  offered  rates,  or  other  reference 
rates,  for  six-month  deposits, 
the  Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include  the  Loan;  as  reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 

in  respect  of 

(c) 

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  LIBOR  Base  Rate  and  LIBOR 

Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)  Whenever,  in  light  of  changes  in  market  practice  affecting  the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines that it 
is  in  the  interest  of  its  borrowers  as  a  whole  and  of  the  Bank  to  apply  a  basis  for 
determining  the  interest  rates  applicable  to  the  Loan  other  than  as  provided  in  said 
Section, the  Bank  may  modify  the  basis  for  determining  the interest  rates  applicable  to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
basis  shall  become  effective  on  the  expiry  of  the  notice  period  unless  the  Borrower 
notifies  the  Bank  during  said  period  of  its  objection  thereto,  in  which  case  said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 

Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 

Section  2.08.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Particular Covenants 

 
Section  3.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the 
request  of  either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

- 6 -

(b) 

Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 

(c) 

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the  Borrower  shall  exchange  views  with  the  Bank  on  any  proposed  action  to  be  taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the  objectives  of  the  Program,  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 

(a) 

have  the  Deposit  Account  audited  in  accordance  with  appropriate 

auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

(b) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in  any  case  not  later than 
four  months  after  the  date  of  the  Bank’s  request  for  such  audit,  a  certified  copy  of  the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 

(c) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  the  Deposit 

Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 

Section  4.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (p)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 
following  additional  event  is  specified,  namely,  that  a  situation  has  arisen  which  shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 

ARTICLE IV 

Additional Event of Suspension 

ARTICLE V 

Termination 

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 

specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

- 7 -

ARTICLE VI 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section  6.01.  The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as 
representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions: 

 

For the Borrower: 

Ministry of Finance 
Dame Gruev 14 
1000 Skopje 

Telex:   

51119 

 

Facsimile: 

(389-2) 311-7280 

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

Facsimile: 

 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
  64145 (MCI) 

(202) 477-6391 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly 
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective 
names in the city of Skopje, as of the day and year first above written. 

- 8 -

BORROWER 

BANK  

By: /s/ Nikola Popovski  

Authorized Representative 

By: /s/ Sandra Bloemenkamp 

 

Authorized Representative 
 

 

 

 

 

- 9 -

SCHEDULE 1 

Excluded Expenditures 

For  purposes  of  Section  2.02  (c)  of  this  Agreement,  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 

 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 

expenditures  in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower  or  for  goods  or  services  supplied 

1.  
from the territory of the Borrower; 

2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or  international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 

3. 
expenditures  for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  subgroups  of  the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

112                           

121                           

122                           

525                           

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

- 

- 

 

 

- 

 

- 

 

Alcoholic beverages 

Tobacco, unmanu- 
factured, tobacco 
refuse 

Tobacco, manufactured  
(whether or not 
containing tobacco 
substitutes) 

Radioactive and  
associated materials 

Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious 
stones, unworked 
or worked 

667 

- 

        

- 10 -

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

718                          

718.7 

 

728 

728.43 

897                          

897.3 

 

 

Nuclear reactors, and  
parts thereof; fuel  
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 

Tobacco processing 
machinery 

 

Jewelry of gold,  
silver or platinum 
group metals (except 
watches and watch 
cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or  
silversmiths’ 
wares (including  
set gems) 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

971                          

- 

 

Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 

expenditures  for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for 

 
 
 
4. 
luxury consumption; 
 
expenditures  for  environmentally  hazardous  goods  (for  purposes  of  this 
5. 
paragraph  the  term  “environmentally  hazardous  goods”  means  goods,  the  manufacture, 
use  or  import  of  which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 

6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank  or  for  goods  procured  in,  or  services  supplied  from,  such  territories;  or  (b)  on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import  is  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations  Security  Council  taken  under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 

expenditures  under  a  contract  in  respect  of  which  the  Bank  determines  that 
7. 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 

- 11 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Amortization Schedule 

 
Date Payment Due

Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)*

 

On each May 15 and November 15 
 

beginning November 15, 2009 
through May 15, 2021 

 

 
 

 
 

1,250,000.00 

 

 
 

*

 

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 

- 12 -

SCHEDULE 3 

Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 

A state administration body for public procurement, without a status of a separate 
1.  
legal  entity,  has  been  established  within  the  MOF,  and  is  fully  operational  with  staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  

The  Borrower  has  achieved  satisfactory  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the 

2.  
wage decompression time-bound action plan agreed with the Bank.  

The HIF financial control systems audit has been completed and accepted by the 
3.  
Borrower’s  Government,  and  an  action  plan  based  on  audit  recommendations  and 
satisfactory to the Bank has been approved by the Government of the Borrower. 

4.  
Pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding the Borrower has adopted  new 
practices  for  procurement  of  pharmaceuticals,  except  pharmaceuticals  from  the  list 
agreed with the Bank, and new supply contracts sufficient to meet the requirements of the 
HIF  and  healthcare  institutions  for  pharmaceuticals  for  at  least  one  year  have  been 
HIF.
concluded 

the 

by 

 

