CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7278-ES 

Loan Agreement 

(Second Land Administration Project) 
 

REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated August 29, 2005 

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

 

 

 

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 7278-ES 

 

 

AGREEMENT,  dated  August  29,  2005,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  EL 
FOR 

INTERNATIONAL 

Borrower) 

BANK 

SALVADOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

(the 

and 

 
WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to  the  feasibility  and 
priority  of  the  project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  (the  Project),  has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 

 
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this 
Agreement; 

 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 

ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 

 
Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through  May  1,  2004),  with  the  modification  set  forth  below  (the  General  Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 

Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 

 
(a) 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 

Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the 
goods  or  services  to  be  financed  under  the  Loan,  or  on  their  importation,  manufacture, 
procurement  or  supply.  Financing  of  such  taxes  is  subject  to  the  Bank’s  policy  of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if 
the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect 
of  any  item  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  is  excessive  or  otherwise 
unreasonable,  the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  adjust  the  percentage  for 
withdrawal  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  respect  of  such  item  in  the  Loan  Agreement  as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 

- 2 –

(b) 

Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 

 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective 
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following 
meanings: 

“Cadastre  Law”  means  the  Borrower’s  Legislative  Decree  No.  604, 
published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  dated  June  24,  1974,  as  amended  by  the 
Borrower’s  Legislative  Decree  No.  611,  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette, 
dated February 9, 1996; 

“CNR”  means  Centro  Nacional  de  Registros,  the  Borrower’s  National 
Center of Registries: (i) created by the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 62 of December 
5, 1994 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 227, Volume No. 325 of 
December  7,  1994,  as  amended  by    Executive  Decree  No.  94  of  September  19,  1997, 
Executive Decree No. 6 of June 1, 1999 and Executive Decree No. 23 of March 19, 2001; 
and  (ii)  granted  administrative  and  financial  autonomy  by  the  Borrower’s  Legislative 
Decree No. 462, dated October 5, 1995, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 
187, Volume 329 of October 10, 1995; 

“CONCULTURA”  means  Consejo  Nacional  para  la  Cultura  y  el  Arte, 
the Borrower’s National Cultural and Art Council, created by the Borrower’s Executive 
Decree No. 55 of September 20, 1990; 

“CONCULTURA  Participation  Agreement”  means 

the  agreement 

referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement; 

“Eligible  Categories”  means  Categories  (1)  through  (6)  set  forth  in  the 

table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

“Eligible  Expenditures”  means  the  expenditures  for  goods,  works  and 

services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 

accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 

“ILP”  means Instituto Libertad y Progreso, the Borrower’s Institute for 
Liberty  and  Progress  created  by  the  Borrower’s  Legislative  Decree  No.  16  of  February 
26, 1991; 

“ILP  Participation  Agreement”  means  the  Agreement  referred  to  in 

Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

 
(h) 

 
(i) 

 

- 3 –

(j) 

“ISTA”  means  Instituto  Salvadoreño  de  Transformación  Agraria, the 
Borrower’s  Agrarian  Institute,  created  by  Legislative  Decree  No.  302  of June  26,  1975 
and published in the Borrower’s Oficial Gazette No. 120, Volume 247 of June 30, 1975; 

“ISTA  Participation  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in 

Section 3.01(e) of this Agreement; 

“MARN”  means  Ministerio  de  Medio  Ambiente  y  Recursos  Naturales, 

the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources; 

“MARN  Participation  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in 

Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 

“Municipality” means an autonomous entity governed by the Borrower’s 
Legislative Decree No. 274 of February 3, 1986 and published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette  No.  23,  Volume  290  of  February  5,  1986,  as  amended  to  the  date  of  this 
Agreement; 

“Municipality  Agreement”  means  any  of  the  Agreements  mentioned  in 

Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement; 

“Operational  Manual”  means  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  3.03  of 

this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
CONCULTURA; 
 
(r) 

this Agreement; 
 
(t) 

“Participating  Agencies”  means 

ILP,  MARN, 

ISTA 

and 

“Participation Agreements” means the ILP Participation Agreement, the 
the 

the  MARN  Participation  Agreement,  and 

ISTA  Participation  Agreement, 
CONCULTURA Participation Agreement; 

“PCU” means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan,  dated 
January  11,  2005  covering  the  initial  18  month  period  (or  longer)  of  Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 

“Protected Area” means an area officially designated by the Borrower to 
be  under  a  special  management  regime  for  the  primary  purpose  of  ensuring  its 
biodiversity and ecological integrity; 

 
(k) 

 
(l) 

 
(m) 

 
(n) 

 
(o) 

 
(p) 

 
(s) 

 
(u) 

 

- 4 –

 
(w) 

 
(x) 

 
(y) 

(v) 

“Report-based  Disbursements”  means 

the  Borrower’s  option  for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 

“SIRyC”  means  Sistema  de  Información,  Registro  y  Catastro,

the 
Borrower’s  Property  Registry  and  Cadastre  Information  System  registered  in  the 
intellectual property registry of the CNR; 

to this Agreement; and 

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 

“Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into 
between  the  Borrower  and  CNR  pursuant  to  Section  3.01(b)  of  this  Agreement,  as  the 
same may be amended from time to time. 

 
Section  1.03.    Each  reference  in  the  General  Conditions  to  the  Project 

implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CNR. 

 

ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 

 
Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty million two 
hundred thousand Dollars ($40,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any  premium  in  respect  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  payable  by  the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 

 
Section  2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be July  1,  2011  or  such  later  date  as  the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to fifty one-hundredths of one per cent (0.50%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 

 

- 5 –

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  equal  to:  (i) 
eighty  five  one-hundredths  of one per  cent (0.85%)  per  annum  from  the  date  on  which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 

 
Section  2.06.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  the  Borrower  shall,  during  the  Conversion  Period,  pay  interest  on 
such  amount  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 

 
Section  2.08.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

- 6 –

payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 

 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower: (i) declares its commitment to the objective of 
the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and,  to  this  end,  shall  cause 
CNR, with the cooperation of the Participating Agencies and Municipalities as set forth 
below, to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate  engineering,  economic,  administrative,  financial,  technical,  environmental 
and surveying practices and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, 
the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  the  Participation  Agreements  and  the  Municipality 
Agreements;  (ii)  shall  take  and  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including  the  provision  of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CNR to 
perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  relend  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to  CNR  under  a 
subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  CNR  (the 
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement),  under  terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have  been 
approved by the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to 
financial  management,  procurement, environmental, social  and  other  procedures  for  the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 

(c) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  above, 
prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
CNR to enter into an agreement with ILP (the ILP Participation Agreement), under terms 
and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  those  set  forth  in  the  Operational 
Manual with respect to the role of ILP in the titling in areas of social interest under Part 
A.3 of the Project. 
 

(d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, 
prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
CNR  to  enter  into  an  agreement  with  MARN  (the  MARN  Participation  Agreement), 
under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  those  set  forth  in  the 
Operational  Manual  with  respect  to  the  role  of  MARN  in  the  delimitation  of  Protected 
Areas under Part A.4 of the Project. 
 

(e) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a),  (b),  (c)  and  (d) 
above, prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause  CNR  to  enter  into  an  agreement  with  ISTA  (the  ISTA  Participation  Agreement), 

- 7 –

under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  those  set  forth  in  the 
Operational  Manual  with  respect  to  the  role  of  ISTA  in  the  delimitation  of  Protected 
Areas within the agrarian sector under Part A.4 of the Project. 
 

(f) 

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) 
above, prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause  CNR  to  enter  into  an  agreement  with  CONCULTURA  (the  CONCULTURA 
Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role of CONCULTURA in 
the delimitation of areas of cultural value under Part A.4 of the Project. 
 

(g)  Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a),  (b),  (c),  (d),  (e) 
and (f) above, the Borrower shall cause CNR to enter into an agreement (a Municipality 
Agreement)  with  each  Municipality  responsible  for  keeping  the  cadastre  databases 
updated  under  Part  B.2  of  the  Project,  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 

(h) 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan 
Agreement and shall cause CNR to exercise its rights under each Participation Agreement 
and  each  Municipality  Agreement  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  and  CNR  shall  not  amend,  assign,  abrogate, 
suspend,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  any 
Participation Agreement, any Municipality Agreement, or any provision thereof. 

 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  

The  Borrower  shall  cause  CNR  to  update  the  Procurement  Plan  in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 

(a)    The  Borrower  shall  cause  CNR  to  issue  an  operational 
manual  (the  Operational  Manual),  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  rules  and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, such manual to include, inter alia: 

 
(b) 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  CNR,  Participation  Agencies 
and Municipalities in Project implementation; 
 
the  technical,  legal,  administrative,  financial,  procurement  and 
monitoring procedures for Project implementation; and 
 

- 8 –

(iii) 

the  standard  bidding  documents  for  procurement  of  non-
consultant services. 

(b) 

 
The  Operational  Manual  may  be  amended  by  CNR  from  time  to  time 
with  the  prior  approval  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank.    In  the  case  of  any  conflict 
between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 

 
Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall, 

the  course  of  Project 
implementation,  cause  CNR  to  maintain  a  Project  coordinating  unit  (the  PCU)  with 
functions,  staffing  and  responsibilities  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  without 
limitation  a  coordinator  responsible  for  overseeing  the  day-to-day  implementation  of 
Project activities, a procurement officer, and a financial management officer. 

throughout 

 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, and shall cause CNR, to: 
 
(a) 

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this  Agreement,  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the  Bank,  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Effective  Date  and  semestrally  thereafter 
during  the  period  of  Project  implementation,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date  of  said  report  and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient 
carrying  out  of  the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof  during  the 
period following such date; and 

review  with  the  Bank,  not  later  than  two  months  after  the  date  of  such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of  this  Section,  and,  thereafter,  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient 
completion  of  the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof,  based  on  the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 

 
Section  3.06.  For  the  purposes  of  Section  9.07  of  the  General  Conditions  and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and 
 

 
(c) 

 
(a) 

- 9 –

(b) 

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  the 

Borrower on said plan. 

 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the Borrower’s obligations in Section 3.01 of 

this Agreement, the Borrower shall and shall cause CNR to: 

carry  out  the  recommendations  included  in  the  environmental  analysis, 
dated January 5, 2005, as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of 
the Bank, in accordance with its terms; and 

carry  out  the  terms  of  the  indigenous  peoples  development  plan,  dated 
January 12, 2004, as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the 
Bank. 

 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall ensure that no private land titles are issued:  
(a)    in  areas  considered  critical  natural  habitats,  areas  of  cultural  value  and/or  under 
dispute,  or  in  areas  known  to  be  at  high  risk  of  natural  disaster;  and/or  (b)  in  private 
property  in  which  the  possessor  acquires  ownership  by  means  of  mechanisms  such  as 
adverse possession. 

 
Section 3.09.  The  Borrower  shall  obtain  the  Bank’s  no-objection  before 
initiating  any  Project  activity  to  be  carried  out  in  any  part  of  the  Borrower’s  territory 
bordering on the territory of another country. 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall:  
 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts,  and  prepare  financial  statements,  all  in  accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank,  adequate 
the  operations,  resources  and 
expenditures related to the Project; and 

to  reflect 

cause  CNR  to  maintain  a  financial  management  system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  accounting  standards 
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  adequate  to  reflect  its  operations  and 
financial  condition  and  to  register  separately  the  operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 

 
(b) 

The Borrower shall, and shall cause CNR to: 

- 10 –

have the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by  the  Bank),  audited,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied 
auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  by  independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than  six  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year  (or  such  other 
period  agreed  to  by  the  Bank):  (A)  certified  copies  of  the 
respective financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  for  such  year  (or  such  other  period  agreed  to  by  the 
Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning  said  auditors,  as  the  Bank  may  from  time  to  time 
reasonably request. 

(c) 

 
For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement  (Report-based  Disbursements)  or  on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, 
the Borrower shall and shall cause CNR to: 

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

ensure  that  such  reports  and  statements  of  expenditure  are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in  paragraph (b) of this Section. 

Section  4.02.    (a)  Without  limitation  upon  the  Borrower’s  progress  reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare or cause 
CNR  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  financial  monitoring  report,  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 

(i) 

sets  forth  sources  and  uses  of  funds  for  the  Project,  both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 
 
(iii) 

 

 

 

- 11 –

separately  funds  provided  under 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 

the  Loan,  and  explains 

describes  physical  progress  in  Project  implementation,  both 
cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  and 
explains  variances  between  the  actual  and  planned  Project 
implementation; and 

sets forth  the  status  of  procurement  under  the  Project,  as  at  the 
end of the period covered by said report. 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar  quarter; thereafter,  each  FMR  shall  be  furnished to the  Bank  not later than  45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 

 

ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 

 
Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02(p)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 

following additional events are specified: 

 
CNR  has  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its  obligations  under  the 

Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 

 
Any  Participating  Agency  has  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its 

obligations under its respective Participation Agreement. 

The Cadastre Law or any of the Decrees referred to in the definition of 
CNR  in  Section  1.02  (b)  of  this  Agreement  or  any  provision  thereof  shall  have  been 
amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNR. 

 
Section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01(k)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the 

following additional events are specified: 

 
(b)  

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

- 12 –

 
(b) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

Any  event  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  or  (b)  of  Section  5.01  of  this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

Any  event  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  or  (d)  of  Section  5.01  of  this 

Agreement shall occur. 

ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 

 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  additional conditions to the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the 
General Conditions: 

the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the 

 
(a) 
Borrower and CNR; 

the Operational Manual and a detailed action plan for the implementation 
of the Project satisfactory to the Bank have been adopted by the Borrower and CNR; and 

the PCU has been established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.04 of 

this Agreement. 
 
Section  6.02.  The  following  is  specified  as  an  additional  matter,  within  the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to  be furnished to  the  Bank,  namely,  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CNR and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and CNR in accordance with its terms. 

 
Section 6.03. The date November 28, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 

Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 

ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance (Ministro de Hacienda) of the Borrower is 
designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions: 

- 13 –

For the Borrower: 

Ministerio de Hacienda 
Boulevard de los Héroes #1231 
San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. 

With a copy to: 

Executive Director, CNR 
1a. Calle Poniente y 43 Av. Norte, No. 2310 
San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. 

Facsimile: 
(503) 225-7491 

Facsímile: 
(503) 260-6409 

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
  64145 (MCI) 

(202) 477-6391 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

- 14 –

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly 
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 

 

 

 
 

By /s/ René León 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By  /s/ Jane Armitage 

Authorized Representative 
 

- 15 –

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

1.  
The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be  financed  out  of  the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)

% of 
Expenditures 
to be financed

 
A. 

General

 
 
 

Category

services 

(1)  Goods 
 
(2)  Consultants’ 
 
 
(3)  Training 
 
(4)  Non-Consultant 
 
Services 
 
(5)  Works 
 
(6) 
 
(7) 
 
 
 
 
(8) 
 
 
 
(9)  Unallocated 
 

Front-end fee 

 

TOTAL 

Incremental Operating Costs 

1,600,000 

Premia for Interest  
Rate Caps and Interest  
Rate Collars 

83% 

83% 

83% 

83% 

83% 

83% 

Amounts due  
pursuant to  
Section 2.09 (c) 
of this Agreement 

Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 

2,100,000 

6,950,000 

1,000,000 

27,600,000 

350,000 

0 
 
 

201,000 

399,000 

_________ 
40,200,000

- 16 –

2. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 

the  term  "incremental  operating  costs"  means  the  reasonable  and 
necessary  incremental  operating  expenditures, as  approved  by  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of 
the  Procurement  Plan,  incurred  by  the  Borrower  with  respect  to:  (i)  remuneration  of 
personnel  hired  under  the  Project;  and  (ii)  recurrent  costs  associated  with  the 
implementation of the Project, including: (A) operation, leasing and maintenance of: (a) 
office  equipment,  vehicles  (including  fuel,  repairs  and  spare  parts);  and  (b)  office 
facilities under the Project; (B) insurance for equipment and vehicles procured under the 
Project;  (C)  office  utilities  associated  with  the  functioning  of  the  PCU;  (D) 
communications expenses required for the implementation of the Project; and (E) office 
materials; 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

the term “non-consultant services” means services for land regularization 
activities  covering  areas  such  as  promotion  and  publicity,  geodesy  and  mapping,  field 
data acquisition and quality and control activities, and legal and cadastral data transfer; 
and 

the  term  "training"  means  the  reasonable  and  necessary  training 
expenditures, as approved by the Bank on the basis of the Procurement Plan, incurred by 
the  Borrower  with  respect to:  (i)  training  materials;  (ii) rental  of training  facilities;  (iii) 
transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and subsistence 
expenses  for  such  trainees;  (iv)  scholarships  and  fellowships  for  training  courses  to  be 
provided in the Borrower's territory or abroad; and (v) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be 
made  in  respect  of:    (a)  payments  made  for  expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,000,000, 
may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that  date  but  after 
March 15, 2005 (but in no case earlier than twelve months immediately before the date of 
this Agreement); and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) set forth in 
the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  unless  regulations  to  the  Cadastre  Law 
satisfactory to the Bank have been approved and entered into effect. 
 
4. 
The  Bank  may  require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the 
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures  under  contracts  for:  (a)  operating 
costs; and (b) goods, works, services and training not subject the Bank’s Prior Review as 
set forth in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Upon receipt by the Borrower of written notice from the Bank, the Borrower may 
5. 
request  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the  basis  of  reports  to  be 
submitted  to  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  such  reports  to 
include  the  FMR  and  any  other  information  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the 

- 17 –

Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to 
the  Bank  before  any  withdrawal  has  been  made  from  the  Loan  Account,  the  Borrower 
shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request.  
 
B. 

Special Account

1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which in 
the  case  of  a  commercial  bank,  would  include  appropriate  protection  against  set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 

(a) 

if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 

shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 

(b) 

if  the  Borrower  is  making  Report-based  Disbursements,  withdrawals 

shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 

3. 
Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 

(a) 

if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5  of  this  Schedule  1  adequately  provide  the  information  required  for  Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 

(b) 

if  the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that  all  further  withdrawals  for 
payment  of  Eligible  Expenditures  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the 
Loan Account; or 
 

(c) 

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of  time  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A)  the  records  and  accounts  for  the  Special  Account;  or  (B)  the  records  and  accounts 
to  which  withdrawals  were  Report-based 
reflecting  expenditures  with  respect 

- 18 –

Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  pursuant  to  Section  6.02  of 
the  General  Conditions.    Upon  such  notification,  the  Bank  shall  determine,  in  its  sole 
discretion,  whether  further  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  may  be  made  and  what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

If  the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that  any  amount  outstanding  in  the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the  six-month  period  following  such  determination,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 

(c) 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or 

any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 

(d) 

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph  6  shall  be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 

- 19 –

Annex A  
To 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 

 
1. 
For  the  purposes  of  this  Annex,  the  term  “Authorized  Allocation”  means  the 
amount  of  $2,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  into  the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 

Withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to 

(a) 

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the  Bank  a request  or requests  for  deposit  into  the  Special  Account of an amount  or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each  such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan 
Account and  deposit into  the  Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall have 
requested.  
 

(b) 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.    Prior to  or at the  time  of  each  such  request,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this  Agreement  for  the  payment  or  payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each  such  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special  commitments  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the  Loan  shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  Eligible 
Expenditures. 

- 20 –

Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 

 

 
2. 

1. 

Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each  such  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 

Upon  receipt  of  each  application  for  withdrawal  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit  into  the  Special  Account  an  amount  equal  to  the  lesser  of:  (a)  the  amount  so 
requested;  and  (b)  the  amount  which  the  Bank  has  determined,  based  on  the  reports 
referred  to  in  Part  A.5  of  this  Schedule  1  applicable  to  such  withdrawal  application,  is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 

 

- 21 –

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 

 
The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  the  Borrower’s  land  tenure  security 
and  land  transactions  through  the  provision  of  efficient,  equitable  and  accessible  land 
administration services to facilitate better land-related investments and more productive 
and environmentally sustainable land use. 

 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objectives: 
 
Part A: Land Regularization

1. 

Review of Legal, Regulatory and Administrative Frameworks

(a) 

Provision  of  technical  assistance  to  support  the  improvement  of  the 
Borrower’s legal, regulatory and administrative frameworks related to property rights and 
land administration to ensure that the CNR and other entities involved in the provision of 
such services are able to:  (i)  provide more efficient, decentralized, accessible and fluid 
registration and cadastre services; and (ii) provide adequate legal solutions to land tenure 
irregularities; 
 

(b) 

carrying  out  of  consultation,  dissemination  and  public  awareness 

activities related to the regulatory improvements referred to in (a) above; and 
 

(c) 

provision  of  training  and  carrying  out  of  workshops  on  the  regulatory 

improvements referred to in (a) above. 

2. 

Land Regularization

(a) 

Preparation  of  basic  cartography  for  cadastre  surveys,  including  digital 

mapping in departments within the Borrower’s territory; 
 

(b) 

verification of rights and delimitation of properties within the Borrower’s 
territory, including a dissemination campaign, analysis of existing cadastral and registry 
information,  field  surveys,  field  conflict  resolution,  notification  and  consultation  of 
results, and integration in SIRyC; and 
 

(i) 

(c) 

transfer  to  SIRyC  of  registry  data  in  folio  personal  (property 
registry kept by name of registrant/owner), in folio real (paper record kept by parcel), and 
in mechanized records of all previous property registry systems; and (ii) linkage of such 
registry data with cadastre data in order to have a one-to-one link between the property 
registry and the map of parcels within the Borrower’s territory. 

- 22 –

3. 

Legalization and/or Titling of Lands in Areas of Social Interest

Legalization and/or titling of lands, selected by CNR jointly with the Borrower’s 
Technical  Secretariat  of  the  Presidency  according  to  a  poverty  map  published  by  the 
Borrower’s social investment fund for local development, whose ownership or good faith 
possession is demonstrated by low-income populations of the Borrower. 
 
4. 

Delimitation and Limited Demarcation of Protected Areas

(a) 

Delimitation of boundaries of Protected Areas and of mangroves; 

 

(b) 

demarcation of three selected Protected Areas identified by MARN and 

acceptable to the Bank, which have no internal or external tenure conflicts; 
 

(c) 

delimitation of three priority cultural sites identified by CONCULTURA 

and acceptable to the Bank, which have no internal or external tenure conflicts; and 
 

(d) 

inclusion  of  specific  notations  for  registered  parcels  with  elements  of 

cultural value in SIRyC and other registration systems of the Borrower. 
 
Part B: Decentralization of Land Administration Services

1. 

Consolidation of the Strengthening of CNR Offices

Strengthening of the capacity of CNR’s departmental and other offices to provide 
local  services related  to registration  of  sales,  inheritance,  and  mortgages,  as  well  as re-
measurements or preparation of cadastre plans, including: 
 

institutional  improvements  to  make  services  more  accessible  to  end-

users; 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

improvements  with  the  use  of  information  technology  including  web-

based services to improve service execution at a highly local and decentralized level; 

training  campaigns  involving  different  sectors  to  create  a  culture  of 
registry rights and of how the cadastre is an important input for property registration; and 

support to the Borrower’s national geographic and cadastre institute and 
land  and  mortgage  registry  to  obtain  and  maintain  the  International  Organization  for 
Standardization’s (ISO) standard 9000 certification. 

- 23 –

2. 

Modernization of Land Administration Services at Local Level

Strengthening of the ability of Municipalities to provide maintenance of cadastre 

data and of land administration services. 
 
Part C: Project Administration

Provision  of 

technical  assistance,  equipment, 

1. 
training,  workshops  and 
incremental operating costs, as necessary, to operate and strengthen PCU and other units 
within  CNR  involved  in  Project  implementation,  as  well  as  to  coordinate  with  other 
entities of the Borrower and to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
 
3. 
sustainable development, as well as studies to evaluate the Project. 
 

Carrying  out  of  studies  related  to  land  administration  and  other  aspects  of 

Provision of audit services for purposes of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 2011. 

- 24 –

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
1. 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date,  such  repayment  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)

Payment Date

August 15, 2011 
February 15, 2012 
August 15, 2012 
February 15, 2013 
August 15, 2013 
February 15, 2014 
August 15, 2014 
February 15, 2015 
August 15, 2015 
February 15, 2016 
August 15, 2016 
February 15, 2017 
August 15, 2017 
February 15, 2018 
August 15, 2018 
February 15, 2019 
August 15, 2019 
February 15, 2020 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4.08% 
4.22% 
4.37% 
4.52% 
4.68% 
4.85% 
5.02% 
5.19% 
5.37% 
5.56% 
5.76% 
5.96% 
6.17% 
6.38% 
6.60% 
6.84% 
7.07% 
7.36% 

2.  
If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  not  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

 

- 25 –

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any  withdrawal  made  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such  withdrawal  in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  (the  Original 
Installment  Share)  and  the  denominator  of  which  shall  be  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
Withdrawals  made  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 

(a) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if  at  any  time  the  Bank  shall adopt  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which invoices  are 
issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of  such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period, 
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  said  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall  be  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan  Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule 
shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

- 26 –

SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 

 
Section I.

General

A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I  of  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of  the  “Guidelines:    Selection  and  Employment  of  Consultants  by  World  Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Schedule  to  describe  particular 
C. 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)

A. 

International Competitive Bidding

1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
2. 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
 

To  the  extent  practicable  contracts  for  goods  shall  be  grouped  in  bid  packages 

B. 

Other Procurement Procedures

1. 

Limited  International  Bidding. Goods  which the  Bank  agrees  can  only 
be  purchased  from  a  limited  number  of  suppliers  may  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 

 
2. 

National  Competitive  Bidding. Goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract, works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
per  contract,  and  services  (other  than  consultants’  services)  estimated  to  cost  less  than 

- 27 –

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

$1,000,000  equivalent  per  contract,  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1, 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 

Shopping. Goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  per 
contract, works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and services 
(other  than  consultant’s  services)  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000  equivalent  per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 

Direct Contracting. Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services)  which the  Bank  agrees  meet  the  requirements  for  Direct  Contracting    may  be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
 
Section III.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

A. 
Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  B  of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 

Other Procedures

1. 

Least-cost  Selection. Services  for  assignments  which  the  Bank  agrees 
meet  the  requirements  of  paragraph  3.6  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  may  be  procured 
under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  Least-cost  Selection  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Selection  Based  on  Consultants’  Qualifications. Services  estimated  to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the  requirements  of  paragraph  3.10  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  Single  Source 
Selection,  may,  with  the  Bank's  prior  agreement,  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Individual  Consultants.

Services  for  assignments  that  meet  the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  to  individual  consultants  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  paragraphs  5.2  through  5.3  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines.    Under  the 
circumstances  described  in  paragraph  5.4  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  such  contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
by the Bank. 

- 28 –

Section IV.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of  all  evaluated  candidates,  the  terms  of  reference  and  the  terms  of  employment  of  the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

- 29 –

SCHEDULE 5 

Project Monitoring Indicators 

COMPONENT 

INDICATOR 

Part A:  Land Regularization 
Part A.1 of the Project 
Review of Legal/Regulatory/ 
Administrative Frameworks 

Part A.2 of the Project 
Land Regularization 

Part A.3 of the Project 
Titling  in Areas of Social 
Interest 
Part A.4 of the Project 
Delimitation and Limited 
Demarcation of Protected 
Areas 

• Legal,  regulatory  and  administrative  diagnostics  and 

recommendations issued 

• Land  stakeholders,  including  all  Project  stakeholders, 

•
•

consulted 
98% of the Borrower’s territory surveyed (unit: sq. km.) 
95% of properties transferred into SIRyC with one-one 
registry/cadastre linkage 

• 100% of properties titled/legalized and registered into 

SIRyC (target:  15,000) 

• 90% of the areas included within the Borrower’s official 
natural protected area system (SANP) as of February 9, 
2005 delimited (unit:  km.), 3 protected areas demarcated 
and 3 cultural sites delimited 

•

Part B:  Decentralization of Land Administration Services 
Part B.1 of the Project 
Consolidation of the 
Strengthening of CNR 
Departmental Offices 
Part B.2 of the Project  
Modernization of Land 
Administration Services at 
local level 

100% of offices providing cadastre and registry 
services based in SIRyC 
80% of CNR offices for which revenues and 
operating costs can be monitored 
90% of municipalities whose maintenance 
agreements with CNR are operating (target:  60 
municipalities) 
90% of municipalities whose revenue base has 
increased (target:  60 municipalities) 

•

•

•

Part C:  Project Administration 
Part C of the Project 
Project administration 

• Monitoring and Evaluation reports issued on time as 

per this Agreement. 

• Completion report issued six months after Closing 

Date 

- 30 –

