CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 4824-TU 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Electricity Generation Rehabilitation and  
Restructuring Project) 
 

ELEKTR(cid:0)K (cid:220)RET(cid:0)M A.(cid:0) . 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 12, 2006  
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT dated September 12, 2006, between ELEKTR(cid:0)K (cid:220)RET(cid:0)M A.(cid:0) . 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01 

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  eighty  million  Euro 
((cid:0) 280,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 
1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 

 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 

2.06.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 

 

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

2

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as  the  Borrower,  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the 
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 

4.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the amendment to the Regulation on the Control of Air Pollution from Industrial 
Sources to allow a transition period for existing thermal plants, including Afsin-
Elbistan A Power Plant, to install flue gas desulfurization controls to meet sulfur 
dioxide emission standards, shall have become effective upon publication in the 
Official Gazette.   

 
4.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 

the date of this Agreement. 

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the General Manager of the Borrower. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

 

 

Elektrik Üretim A.(cid:0) .
Genel Müdürlügü 
In(cid:246)n(cid:252) Bulvar(cid:0) No. 27 
Bahçelievler 
Ankara, Turkey 
 

 

Facsimile: 

(90-312) 212 9430 

3

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

ELEKTR(cid:0)K (cid:220)RET(cid:0)M A.(cid:0) . 

By /s/ Sefer Bütün 

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Muzaffer Basaran 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink 

Director 
Turkey Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 

4

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  supply  security  during  the  reform 

transition and restructure the state-owned generation business into corporatized entities. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
I. 

Afsin-Elbistan-A Rehabilitation

Rehabilitation  of  Afsin-Elbistan  A  Power  Plant,  including:  (a)  the  repair, 
replacement  and  upgrade  of  power  plant  systems  to  restore  reliability,  availability  and 
power output, and improve plant efficiency; (b) the upgrade of environmental protection 
systems  and  environmental  monitoring;  (c)  the  improvement  of  operational  and 
maintenance  practices  -  particularly  maintenance  monitoring  systems,  predictive 
maintenance based on historical data analysis, and maintenance planning/scheduling; and 
(d)  investments  to  meet  UCTE  standards  for  primary  and  secondary  frequency  control 
required to integrate with the South East European market. 

 
Support for Financial and Operational Restructuring of the Generation Business 

II. 

Provision  of  assistance  to  support  the  Borrower  in  restructuring  its  generation 
business  into  financially  and  operationally  viable  portfolio  companies  and  a  hydro 
corporation and implementing mechanisms to address generation supply security needs in 
the medium-term.  
 

5

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Institutional and Other Arrangements

The Borrower shall, through the PMT, oversee the overall implementation of the 
1. 
Project. 
  To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  PMT,  throughout  the 
implementation of the Project, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with 
sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources. 
 
2. 
The  Borrower  shall  implement  the  EIA  and  EMP  and  shall  include  in  the 
quarterly  progress  reports  to  the  Bank  specific  environmental  reports,  as  required, 
providing results of any monitoring programs undertaken as part of the EIA and EMP. 
 
3. 
Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  7.02  (h)  of  the  General 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  consult  with  the  Bank  prior  to  the  finalization  of  any 
strategy  related to the  sale,  lease,  transfer, assignment  or  disposal  of  the  Afsin-Elbistan 
power sector assets, comprising power plant A, power plant B and the mining assets in 
the Afsin Elbistan area owned by the Borrower. 
 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation

Project Reports.   

A. 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project  Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution  of  the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
 
1. 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, 
2. 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

6

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
3. 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 

The Borrower shall have the enterprise resource planning program installed and 

4. 
functional by December 31, 2007. 
 
Section III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

1. 
Goods (Including Supply and Installation).   All goods required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.

3. 
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
 

Particular Method of Procurement of Goods  

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Goods  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 

awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

C. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

7

Procurement Method

Selection based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications 

Individual Consultants  

(a) 

 
(b)  
 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 

Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General.   

A. 
 
1. 
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions, included in the Disbursement 
Letter, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
1. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 

Category 

(1) Goods (including supply 
 

and installation) 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 
 
273,600,000 

 

 

 

 

(2) Consultants’ services 

5,700,000 

100% 

(3) Front-end Fee 

700,000 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

280,000,000

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be financed 

100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of other 
items procured locally 

Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
 

8

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   

B. 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed (cid:0) 500,000 may be made for payments made prior to 
this date but on or after April 30, 2006 for Eligible Expenditures under Category (2). 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 

2. 
 
Section V. 

Other Undertakings

(a)  

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall:  (i) 
1. 
produce,  for  each  of  its  fiscal  years,  funds  from  internal  sources  equivalent  to  not  less 
than 25% for the fiscal year 2006 and in each succeeding fiscal year of the Borrower’s 
capital expenditures during the fiscal year concerned; and (ii) ensure that the net revenues 
of the Borrower shall be at least 1.2 times in 2006 and each succeeding fiscal year, the 
estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any such fiscal year 
on all debt of the Borrower. 
 

(b) 

If  any  fiscal  projections  show  that  the  Borrower  would  not  meet  the 
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  for  the  Borrower’s  fiscal  years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all measures necessary on its 
part in order to meet such requirements. 
 

(c) 

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i) 

The  term  “funds  from  internal  sources”  means  the  difference 
between: 

(A) 

(B) 

customer 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to 
operations, 
customer 
contributions  in  aid  of  construction, net  non-operating 
income and any reduction in working capital other than 
cash; and 

deposits 

and 

the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to operations,  including  
administration,  license  fees,  adequate  maintenance  and 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision 
for  depreciation  and  other  non-cash  operating  charges 
and  income  taxes),  debt  service  requirements,  all  cash 
dividends  and  other  cash  outflows  other  than  capital 
expenditures,  increase  in  working  capital  other  than 
cash. 

 

 

 

9

(ii) 

The  term  “net  non-operating  income”  means  the  difference 
between: 

(A) 

(B) 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to 
operations; and 

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 

The term “working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between  current  assets  excluding  cash  and  current  liabilities  at 
the end of each fiscal year. 

The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than  cash  which  could  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  be 
converted  into  cash  within  twelve  months,  including  accounts 
receivable,  marketable  securities, 
inventories  and  prepaid 
expenses  properly  chargeable  to  operating  expenses  within  the 
next fiscal year. 

The  term  “current  liabilities”  means  all  liabilities  which  will 
become  due  and  payable  or  could  under  circumstances  then 
existing  be  called  for  payment  within  12  months,  including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 

The  term  “debt  service  requirements”  means  the  aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 

The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on  account  of  fixed  assets,  including  interest  charged  to 
construction, related to operations, averaged over a 3 year period 
covering the year concerned and the year preceding and the year 
succeeding such year. 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii)  The  term  “debt”  means  any  indebtedness  of  the  Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred. 

(ix) 

The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 

(A) 

(B) 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 

the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to operations,  including  
license fees, administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision 
for  depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating  charges  and 
interest and other charges on debt. 

(x)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of 
the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other 
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 

 

 

 

 

11 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

Principal Payment Date

Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro∗)

On each March 15 and September 15 
 

beginning September 15, 2011 

through March 15, 2021 

14,000,000 
 

 

 

∗

The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 

12 

APPENDIX 

Definitions 
 
1. 

 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Disbursement  Letter”  means  the  letter,  dated  as  of  the  same  date  of  this 
Agreement, including the additional instructions as referred to in Section IVA.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be revised from time to time. 

“EIA”  means  the  environmental  impact  assessment  dated  September  9,  2005, 
describing the environmental issues for the Project. 

“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated January 18, 2006 and 
approved  by  the  Bank  describing 
issues,  mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measures for the Project. 

the  environmental 

“Elektrik  (cid:220)retim  A.(cid:0) .” means  a  joint  stock  company  established  and  operating 
pursuant  to  the  Council  of  Ministers’  Decree  No.  2001/2026  dated  February  5, 
2001. 

“fiscal  year”  means  the  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower  starting  on  January  1  and 
ending on December 31 of each year.  

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

“PMT”  means  the  Project  Management  Team  established  within  EUAS  to 
oversee Project implementation. 

“Procurement  Guidelines” means  the  “Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  April  26,  2006  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

13 

“Regulation on the Control of Air Pollution from Industrial Sources” means the 
regulation  published  in  the  Guarantor’s  Official  Gazette  No.  25606,  dated 
October 7, 2004. 

“UCTE” means the Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in 
Europe.

 

12. 

 
13. 

 

