CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7413-CO 

Loan Agreement 

 
(Second Programmatic Business Productivity and Efficiency  
Development Policy Loan) 
 

between 
 

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated December 6, 2006 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7413-CO 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 6, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of  the 
Program  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).    The  Bank  has  decided  to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $300,000,000 (three hundred million 
Dollars) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. In the event that the Borrower selects 
not to capitalize the Font-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date.  

2

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread,  subject  to  any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 

 
2.06.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

 

 

 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.10  of  the  General 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

ARTICLE III—PROGRAM 

To this end: 

(a) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 

 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  exchange  views  with  the  Bank  on  any 
proposed  action  to  be  taken  after  the  disbursement  of  the  Loan  which 
would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program,  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided  for  in  Section  3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement,  the  Bank  has 
determined that a situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program  or  a  significant  part  thereof 
will be carried out. 

At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided  for  in  Section  3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower’s 
macroeconomic  policy  framework  has,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank, 
become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 

At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided  for  in  section  3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement,  the  Bank  has 
determined that an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to 
reverse  any  action  or  policy  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
listed under Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that 
would,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  adversely  affect  the  achievement  of 
the objectives of the Program. 

ARTICLE V—EFFECTIVENESS 

5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expires on June 9, 
2008. 

3

 

 

4

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 

 

Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

5

 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States of  America,  as  of  the  day 

and year first above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 

By /s/ Mariana Pacheco 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 

Authorized Representative 

 

 
 

 

 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 

1. 

To  enhance  competitiveness,  specifically 
implementation of regional and sector competitiveness plans, the Borrower has: 

in  respect  of  advancing 

the 

 

 

 

2. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c)  

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c)   

Issued,  through  CONPES,  policy  directive  No.  3439  dated  August  14, 
2006, which establishes the basis for the development of a productivity 
and  competitiveness  policy,  including  the  institutional  framework  in 
relation thereto. 

Issued  Presidential  Decree  No.  2828  dated  August  23,  2006,  which 
establishes  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  Borrower’s  agencies  and 
contents  and  substance  of  the  programs  involved  in  or  concerned  with 
the  formulation,  implementation  and  monitoring  of  its  competitiveness 
policy. 

Published  electronically,  through  DNP  and  on  its  website  Agenda 
Interna,  implementation  plans  for  no  less  than  10  regions  and  10 
economic sectors. 

To strengthen its financial system and capital markets, the Borrower has: 

Issued,  through  CONPES,  for  the  purpose  of  strengthening  supervision 
of the sector, policy directive No. 3399 dated November 28, 2005, which 
mandates  that:  (i)  an  evaluation  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  merger 
process  of  the  banking  and  securities  superintendencies  be  carried  out; 
and  (ii)  all  the  enabling  legislation  required  to  increase  the  legal  and 
budgetary  independence  of  the  resulting  merged  superintendency  be 
elaborated.  

Issued, through MHCP, for the purpose of ensuring increased access to 
and  diversity  of  financial  products,  a  mid-term  roadmap  dated  October 
02, 2006, for selected reforms of the financial sector supported by sound 
analytical underpinnings.  

(i)  Submitted  on  July  21,  2006,  through  MHCP,  for  adoption  by  the 
Borrower’s legislative branch,  the draft credit information Law No. 27S 
(Ley  de  Habeas  Data);  (ii)  issued,  through  MHCP,    Decree  No.  2233 
the  establishment  of  banking 
dated  July  07,  2006,  authorizing 

7

correspondents; and (iii) issued, through MHCP,  Decree No. 2230 dated 
July  06,  2006,  mandating  the  disclosure  of  fees  charged  by  issuers  of 
payment  and  credit  cards,  all  for  the  purpose  of  modernizing  the  legal 
framework  for  the  supply  of  credit  with  a  view  to  promoting 
transparency and access to financial services.

Issued,  through  MHCP,  for  the  purpose  of  fostering  development  and 
integrity of the Borrower’s capital markets as required pursuant to Law 
No. 964 of the Borrower, the following Decrees which together set forth 
the  implementing  regulations  to  the  Borrower’s  securities  law  and 
establish new supervisory powers in the Borrower’s Superintendency of 
Finance with respect to: 

(i) 
 
 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v)  

 

 

 

 

 

(vi) 

qualifications and registry requirements for financial   market 
intermediaries, through Decree No. 3139 dated   September  12, 
2006;  

self-regulation of market participants, through Decree No. 1565 
dated May 19, 2006;  

investor  protection  rules,  through  Decree  No.  4759  dated 
December 30, 2005; 

agricultural  commodities  exchanges,  through  Decree  No.  1511 
dated May 15, 2006;  

the  custody  and  settlement  and  payment  of  foreign  exchange, 
through Decree No. 700 dated March 08, 2006;  

foreign  issuers,  through  Decree  No.  1564  dated  May  19,  2006; 
and  

(vii)  

public  tender  offers,  through  Decree  No.  1941  dated  June  13, 
2006. 

Issued, through MHCP, for the purpose of supporting the development of 
a sound  money  market,  Decree  No.  4708  dated  December  26,  2005, 
legal  characteristics  of  selected  financial 
which  establishes 
instruments.  

the 

Submitted on December 19, 2005, to the Borrower’s legislative branch, 
through  MHCP,  MIJ  and  MD  for  the  purpose  of  combating  money 
laundering  and  the  financing  of  terrorism,  draft  Law  No.  208  of  2005, 
which  would  criminalize  the  financing  of  terrorism  and  strengthen  the 

(d)   

 

 

 

 

(e) 

(f) 

3. 

 

(a) 

(i) 

 
 
 
 

(ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 

 

(b) 

8

budgetary  and  institutional  capacity  of  the  Unidad  de  Información  y 
Análisis Financiero. 

(g) 

Issued,  through  MHCP,  Decree  No.  2515  dated  July  22,  2005,  for  the 
strengthening  of  the  budgetary  and  institutional  capacity  of  the  Unidad 
de Información y Análisis Financiero.

To  improve  product  quality  standards  and  foster  technological  innovation,  the 
Borrower has: 

issued,  through  CONPES,  policy  directive  No.  3446  dated 
October  30,  2006,  which,  for  the  purpose  of  improving  the 
quality and conformity assessment framework needed to enhance 
the 
competitiveness 
guidelines  for  establishing 
independent  accreditation  and 
metrology entities to facilitate their international recognition;  

international  markets,  sets 

forth 

in 

issued, through CONPES,  document No. 3375 dated September 
05, 2005, which establishes the national policy for the system of 
sanitary  and  phytosanitary  measures    destined  to  improve  the 
health and innocuity conditions of national food and agricultural 
products  and  to  facilitate  their  admission  to  international 
markets; and 

adopted, through its legislative branch, on October 18, 2006, the 
national  budget  for  2007  which  records  no  less  than  a  six  fold 
increase of the resources devoted to strengthening the metrology 
infrastructure, as compared to the national budget for 2006.  

 
Carried  out,  through  Colciencias, for  the  purpose  of  strengthening  the 
foundations  of  the  science,  technology  and  innovation  policies  of  the 
Borrower,  an  evaluation  of  the  ongoing  support  mechanisms  and 
institutions involved in technology support and transfer to the productive 
sector,  the  conclusions  of  which  are  recorded  in  several  reports  
furnished to the Bank on October 13, 2006. 

 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

A. 

 

B. 

 

C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

9

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
300,000,000 

0

 

300,000,000 

Allocation 

Single Tranche 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Payment of Front-end Fee. Subject to applicable provisions of Section 2.04. in 
respect  of  any  waiver  of  the  Front-end  Fee,  if  the  Borrower  selects  not  to 
capitalize  the  Front-end  Fee,  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
2.  

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

F. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 

10

SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

Principal Payment Date 

On each February 15 and August 15 
Beginning:  
 
February 15, 2013 through August 15, 
2013; 
 
February 15, 2016 through August 15, 
2017; 
 
February 15, 2018 through August 15, 
2019; 
 
February 15, 2020 through August 15, 
2020; 
 
February 15, 2021 through February 15, 
2023; and  
 
On August 15, 2023.  
 

 

2.  

 

8.33 % 

6.67 % 

10.00 % 

3.33 % 

1.67 % 

1.65 % 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

11

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

 

12

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 
 

“Agenda Interna” means the Internal Productivity and Competitiveness Agenda 
developed  by  the  Borrower  following  a  wide  consultative  process  of  local 
to 
businesses  and  enterprises  and  aimed  at 
competitiveness and key policies for addressing them. 

identifying  bottlenecks 

“Colciencias” means  Instituto  Colombiano  para  el  Desarrollo  de  la  Ciencia  y 
Tecnología  Francisco  José  de  Caldas,  a  Borrower’s  agency  under  the 
administrative  authority  of  the  Borrower’s  DNP,  established  in  1968  and 
entrusted  with  the  responsibility  of  implementing  the  Borrower’s  programs  in 
matters of science and technology. 

“CONPES”  means  Consejo  Nacional  de  Política  Económica  y  Social,
Borrower’s National Council on Economic and Social Policy. 

the 

“DNP”  means  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeación,  the  Borrower’s  National 
Planning Department.  

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 

Sub-group 

112 
121 

122 

525 
667 

 
 

 

 
 

Description of Item 
 

Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated materials 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 

Group 

Sub-group 

13

718.7 
 

728.43  
897.3 

718 

728 
897 

971 

 

Description of Item 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent,  collusive  or  coercive  practices  were  engaged 
in  by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during  the  procurement  or  execution  of  such  contract,  without  the 
Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 

 
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  with  the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

“MCIT”  means  Ministerio  de  Comercio,  Industria  y  Turismo, the  Borrower’s 
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism. 

“MD”  means  Ministerio  de  Defensa  Nacional,
National Defense. 

the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of 

“MHCP”  means  Ministerio  de  Hacienda  y  Crédito  Público, the  Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 

10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

14

“MIJ”  means  Ministerio  del  Interior  y  de  Justicia, the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of 
Interior and Justice. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred to in the  letter  dated  October  27,  2006  from  the  Borrower to the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 

“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

“Unidad de Información y Análisis Financiero” means the financial intelligence 
unit of MHCP. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The  modifications  to  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 

(c) 

15

 
6. 

 

 

 

 
7. 

under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  as  set  forth  in  the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified to read as follows:  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support  of  which  the  Loan  is  made.”    All  references  to  “Project” 
throughout  these  General  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to 
“Program.” 

 

