CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7333-PA 

Loan Agreement 

(Mother and Child Basic Health Insurance Project) 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated  May 4, 2006 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 7333-PA 

 
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

Borrower)  and 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

 
WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to  the  feasibility  and 
priority  of  the  project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  (the  Project),  has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

WHEREAS  the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter  alia, of the  foregoing,  to 
extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this 
Agreement; 

 

 

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 

ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 

 
Section  1.01.  The  “General  Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May  1,  2004)  with  the  modifications  set forth  below (the  General  Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 

Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 

 
(a) 
 
“Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes 

Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor  on  the  goods  or  services  to  be  financed  under  the  Loan,  or  on  their 
importation,  manufacture,  procurement  or  supply.  Financing  of  such  taxes  is  subject  to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied  on  or  in  respect  of  any  item  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage  for  withdrawal  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  respect  of  such  item  in  the  Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 

 
(b) 

Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 

- 2 –

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the  General  Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective 
meanings  therein  set  forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the  following 
meanings: 

“Annual  Management  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in 

Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; 

“Authorized  Health  Service  Providers”  means  the  public  and  private 
health  facilities  and  other  entities  that  meet  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational 
Guidelines to provide the EPS (as hereinafter defined); 

“Capitation  Payment”  means  a  financial  transfer,  analogous  to  a  health 
insurance  premium,  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Participating  Department  (as  hereinafter 
defined), in an initial amount equivalent to 5.60 Dollars per person enrolled (or eligible to 
be so enrolled in those cases where the amount is advanced pursuant to Section 3.09 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement) in the MCBI (as hereinafter defined) as of each relevant year; 

“Department”  means  a  political  subdivision  of  the  Borrower  as  per  the 
Borrower’s  Constitution,  and  the  term  “Departments”  means  all  of  said  political 
subdivisions; 

“DR”  means  Dirección  Regional  de  Salud, any  of  the  Borrower’s 
MSPBS  (as  hereinafter  defined)  Regional  Health  Directorates  with  jurisdiction  over 
health service delivery in a Participating Department; 

 “Eligible  Department”  means  any  of  the  Departments  of  Itapúa,  San 
Pedro,  Amambay,  Canendiyú,  Alto  Paraná,  Presidente  Hayes,  Boquerón,  Concepción, 
Caazapá  y  Caaguazú,  and  any  other  Department  that  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may 
agree from time to time; 

“Eligible  Population”  means  all  women  of  child  bearing  age  and  all 
children  under  5  years  of  age,  within  the  territory  of  a  Participating  Department  (as 
hereinafter defined); 

“Enrolled Population” means the Eligible Population that has voluntarily 

enrolled in the MCBI (as hereinafter defined) in each Participating Department; 

“EPS”  means  the  Essential  Package  of  Health  Services  that  may  be 

provided through MCBI to the  Enrolled Population; 

“Financial Concurrent Auditor” means the independent financial auditor 

mentioned in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

 
(h) 

 
(i) 

 
(j) 

 

- 3 –

 
(l) 

 
(m) 

(n) 

 
(o) 

 
(r) 

 
(s) 

(t) 

 
(u) 

 
(v) 

 
(w) 

 
(x) 

(k) 

“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 

accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 

“Fiscal  Year”  means  the  Borrower’s  fiscal  year  from  January  1  to 

December 31 of each year; 

“Guaraníes” or “Gs.” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 

“Health Service Provider Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 

Section 3.08 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 

“ITU” means the insurance technical unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 

“MCBI”  means  the  Borrower’s  Maternal  and  Child  Basic  Health 

Insurance Program (Programa de Aseguramiento Materno Infantil); 

“MCBI Fund” means the fund administered by the Borrower to support 

 

this Agreement; 
 
(p) 

 
(q) 
the MCBI; 

“MCBI Fund Administrative Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 

3.04 of this Agreement;  

“MSPBS”  means  Ministerio  de  Salud  Pública  y  Bienestar  Social, the 

Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social Welfare; 

“Monitoring  Indicators”  means  the  indicators  set  forth  in  the  letter  of 

even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;  

“Operational  Guidelines”  means  the  guidelines  referred  to  in  Section 

3.07 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 

(ii) of this Agreement; 

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.07 (a) 

“Participating  Department”  means  any  Eligible  Department  that  has 
fulfilled  the  requirements  of  the  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Operational  Manual  to  
participate in, and receive funds under the Project; 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June 
24, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02  to  this  Agreement,  to  cover  succeeding  18  month  periods  (or  longer)  of  Project 
implementation; 
 

- 4 –

(y) 

“Regional  and  Local  Health  Councils”  means  the  councils  created  by 
  1032/96  and  regulated  under  Decree  19.996/98,  with  participation  of 
Law 
representatives of MSPBS, civil society and departmental or municipal authorities, as the 
case may be; 

 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

 
(z) 

this Agreement; 
 
(aa) 

“Superintendencia  de  Salud” means  Health  Superintendency, 

the 
Borrower’s  entity  in  charge  of  certifying  public  and  private  health  service  providers, 
established  by  the  Borrower’s  Law  1032/96  and  regulated  by  the  Borrower’s  Decree 
20.553/98; 

“Technical Concurrent Auditor” means the independent technical auditor 

mentioned in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; and 

“UAPI” means Unidad de Administración de Préstamos Internacionales,
the Borrower’s international loans administration unit within the MSPBS specialized in 
financial  management  and  procurement  procedures  for  all  multilateral  projects  being 
implemented  by  the  MSPBS  and  established  further  to  Ministerial  Resolution  1385  of 
November 18, 2004. 

 
(bb) 

 
(cc) 

 

ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 

 
Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and 
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  twenty  two 
million  Dollars  ($22,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 

 
Section  2.02.    (a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan 
Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of Capitation Payments, works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 

 
(b) 

Upon  confirmation from  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  may,  for  the  purposes 
of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special  Account  shall  be made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule 5  to this 
Agreement. 

- 5 –

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2011 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

 
Section  2.04.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  in  an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 

 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  equal  to:  (i) 
eighty  five  one-hundredths  of one per  cent (0.85%)  per  annum  from  the  date  on  which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 

 
Section  2.06.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  the  Borrower  shall,  during  the  Conversion  Period,  pay  interest  on 
such  amount  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on May 15 and November 15  in each year. 

 
Section  2.08.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 

- 6 –

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

 
Section 2.10 

The Minister of Public Health and Social Welfare or any person or 
persons  whom  he  or  she  shall  designate  in  writing  is  designated  as  representative  of  the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 

 

ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 

 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MSPBS, with the assistance 
of  the  Participating  Departments  through  their  respective  DRs,  with  due  diligence  and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, social, health care 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 

 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  

The  Borrower  shall  update  the  Procurement  Plan  in  accordance  with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 

 
Section  3.03.  For  the  purposes  of  Section  9.07  of  the  General  Conditions  and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed  for  this  purpose  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  a  plan  for  the  future 
operation of the Project; and 
 

(b) 

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  the 

 
(b) 

 
(a) 

Borrower on said plan. 
 

Section 3.04.  For the purposes of assisting MSPBS in the overall management of 
the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  maintain  throughout  the  execution  of  the  Project, 

- 7 –

within  MSPBS,  a  project  administration  unit  (the  UAPI)  with  functions  and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; (b) create and maintain throughout the execution 
of the Project, within MSPBS, an insurance technical unit (the ITU) with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts 
and other personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank;  and  (c)  create  and  maintain  throughout  the  execution  of  the  Project,  an 
administrative  unit  for  the  MCBI  Fund  (the  MCBI  Fund  Administrative  Unit)  with 
functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  staffed  with  personnel  in 
number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 

Section  3.05.  For  the  purposes  of  implementing  Part  A.1  of  the  Project,  the 
Borrower shall prepare, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a list 
of  eligible  health  services  which  constitute  the  EPS  and  prices  for  such  services  (the 
Nomenclador), to be provided by the Authorized Health Service Providers, acceptable to 
the Bank.  
 

Section 3.06.  The Borrower and the Bank shall jointly review once every year 
during  Project  implementation,  beginning  on  January  1,  2007,  the  Capitation  Payments 
amounts,  the  eligible  health  services  and  prices  for  such  services  included  in  the 
Nomenclador  referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement and adjust as necessary in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.  

 
Section  3.07.  (a)  Without  limitation  of  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this 

Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: 

(i) 

the  Project  (the 
operational  guidelines  for  Part  A.1  of 
Operational  Guidelines),  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall 
contain, inter alia:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

(E) 

the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for 
the  personnel  of  the  ITU  responsible  for  Project 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 

the  criteria,  detailed  rules  and  procedures  for  the 
Capitation Payments; 

the  indicators  to  be  used  in  the  monitoring  and 
evaluation of the Project; 

draft  models  for  the  Annual  Management  Agreement 
and the Health Service Provider Agreements; 

criteria  for  the  conversion  of  Eligible  Population  into 
Enrolled Population, including procedures, activities and 
the  enrollment  of  said 
monitoring 

indicators  for 

 

 

 

 

 

- 8 –

population, (such criteria shall also ensure adequate and 
culturally  appropriate  access  by  indigenous  peoples  to 
the MCBI); 

criteria  for  the  conversion  of  Eligible  Departments  into 
procedures, 
Participating  Departments, 
activities  and  monitoring  indicators  for  the  compliance 
of the requirements for such conversion; 

including 

procedures  for  deletion  from  lists  of  the  Enrolled 
Population  of  children  as  they  become  older  than  five 
years; and 

criteria  for  selection  of  Authorized  Health  Service 
Providers 
the  
and 
Superintendencia de Salud; and 

certification 

their 

by 

(F) 

(G) 

(H) 

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

an operational manual for Parts A.2 through E of the Project (the 
Operational  Manual),  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall 
contain, inter alia: (A) the procedures for procurement of works, 
goods  and  services,  as  well  as  for  financial  management  and 
audits  of  the  Project;  and  (B)  the  flow  and  disbursement 
arrangements of Project funds except for funds under Part A.1 of 
the Project. 

 

(b) 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual and the Operational Guidelines, or any 
provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and 
those  of  the  Operational  Manual  and  the  Operational  Guidelines,  the  provisions  of  this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 

Section 3.08.  For  the  purposes  of  implementing  Part  A.1  of  the  Project  the 

Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 

each  year  during  Project  implementation,  enter  into  an  agreement  (the 
Annual  Management  Agreement)  with  each  Participating  Department  through  its 
respective DR, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative and  fiduciary aspects 
of the national and departmental participation in the implementation of the Project, all on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;  

 
(b) 

cause  each  Participating  Department  (through  the  respective  Annual 
Management  Agreement)  to:  (i)  enter  into  an  agreement  with  an  Authorized  Health 
Service  Provider  (the  Health  Service  Provider  Agreement),  setting  forth,  inter  alia,  the 
Participating Department’s payment mechanisms with respect to each of the Authorized 
Health  Service  Providers;  and  (ii)  ensure  that  payments  to  each  Authorized  Health 

- 9 –

Service  Provider  are  solely  in  payment  for  services  provided,  and  at  prices,  that  are 
included in the Nomenclador referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and 

 
(c) 

(i) 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each 
Annual  Management  Agreement  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan;  (ii)  cause  each 
Participating  Department  to  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each 
Health  Service  Provider  Agreement  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (iii) except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Annual Management Agreement. 

 
Section 3. 09. 

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  make  Capitation  Payments  available  to 
an  Eligible  Department,  but  only  after  said  Eligible  Department  has  fulfilled  the 
requirements set forth  in  the  Operational  Guidelines in  order  to  become  a  Participating 
Department  and  is  party  to  an  Annual  Management  Agreement  that  is  in  effect.  Such 
Capitation Payments shall be made in the following manner: 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

within the first twelve months after the date on which an Eligible 
Department  converts  into  a  Participating  Department,  the 
Borrower shall make available to such Participating Department 
an  amount  from  the  Loan  calculated  on  the  basis  of  estimated 
Eligible  Population  in  such  Participating  Department  based  on 
the  2002  census  as  reflected  in  the  Annual  Management 
Agreement for such Participating Department; and 

after  said  first  twelve  months,  the  Borrower  shall  disburse  the 
Capitation  Payment  every  quarter,  or  with  such  frequency  as 
agreed  from  time  to  time  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank, 
immediately  after  the  Participating  Department  has  sent  to  the 
Borrower  the  registry  with  said  Participating  Department’s 
Enrolled  Population  as  of  the  previous  year  and  the  Borrower, 
through ITU, has certified and validated said registry.  

 

(b) 

For the purposes of the certification and validation procedure referred to 
in (a)(ii) above, the Borrower shall appoint and thereafter maintain during the execution 
of  the  Project,  unless  the  Bank  otherwise  agrees,  an  independent  financial  auditor  (the 
Financial  Concurrent  Auditor)  and  an  independent  technical  auditor  (the  Technical 
Concurrent  Auditor)  responsible  for  producing  quarterly  audit  reports  on  the  technical 
and  administrative  functioning  of  the  MCBI  in  the  Participating  Departments,  under 
terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.    Said  auditors  shall  provide    such  audit 
reports  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  within  30  days  after  the  end  of  each  relevant 
quarter. 
 

- 10 –

(c) 

In  case  that  a  Technical  Concurrent  Auditor  or  Financial  Concurrent 

Auditor shall have determined at any time that: 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

any Capitation Payment to a Participating Department was made 
based on inaccurate information of Enrolled Population provided 
by such Participating Department; or 

a Participating Department has issued an instruction of payment 
for  a  service  not  provided  or  at  a  price  not  included  in  the 
Nomenclador referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; or 

a  Participating  Department  has  carried  out  an  action  that  the 
Borrower  and 
the  Bank  consider  as  such  Participating 
Department not complying with its obligations under the relevant 
Annual  Management  Agreement  or  Health  Service  Provider 
Agreement, such Participating Department shall, promptly upon 
notice  from  the  Borrower  provide  instructions  for  deposit  into 
the  Special  Account  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such 
Capitation  Payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or 
inaccurately  justified,  without  the  prejudice  to  the  right  of  the 
Borrower  to  suspend  the  right  of  said  Participating  Department 
to receive funds under Part A.1 of the Project. 

 

 

Section 3.10.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 15 and July 15 of each year, a report integrating the results 
of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this 
Section,  on  the  progress  achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  during  the  period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 

review  with  the  Bank,  by  January  31  or  July  31  of  each  year,  or  such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and,  thereafter,  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the 
Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof,  based  on  the  conclusions  and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

- 11 –

Section 3.11.  The Borrower shall conduct a mid-term review with the Bank of 
the progress of the Project, by not later than when 50% of the resources of the Loan have 
been disbursed or two and a half years of Project implementation, whichever comes first, 
based  on  an  assessment  with  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as  well  as  the 
reports referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement. 

 

Section 3.12.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  not  later  than  August  1  of  each  year 
during  Project  implementation,  starting  August  1,  2005,  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its 
approval,  an  annual  implementation  plan,  each  said  plan  to  include,  inter  alia: (i)  the 
Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower  during the calendar year following 
the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the updated  Procurement Plan for each said 
calendar  year;  and  (b)  thereafter  implement  each  said  annual  implementation  plan, 
approved by the Bank, in accordance with its terms. 

ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 

Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  a  financial  management  system, 
including  records  and  accounts,  and  prepare  financial  statements  in  accordance  with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.  

The Borrower shall: 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  for  each  fiscal  year  (or  other  period  agreed  to  by  the 
Bank),  audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  by  independent  auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than  six  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year  (or  such  other 
period  agreed  to  by  the  Bank):  (A)  certified  copies  of  the 
financial  statements  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section 
for  such  year  (or  other  period  agreed  to  by  the  Bank),  as  so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 

 

 
(b) 
 

 

- 12 –

 

 

 

 

(c) 

For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

(i) 

ensure  (as  the  case  may  be)  that  all  records  (contracts,  orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year after the end of 
the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan 
Account was made; 

enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

 
(ii) 
 
(iii)  ensure (as the case may be) that such statements of expenditure are 
included in any audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 

Section  4.02.  (a)  Without  limitation  upon  the  Borrower’s  progress  reporting 
obligations  set  out  in  Section  3.10  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall,  through 
MSPBS,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  financial  monitoring  report,  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

sets  forth  sources  and  uses  of  funds  for  the  Project,  both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately  funds  provided  under 
the  Loan,  and  explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 

describes  physical  progress  in  Project  implementation,  both 
cumulatively  and  for  the  period  covered  by  said  report,  and 
explains  variances  between  the  actual  and  planned  Project 
implementation; and 

(iii) 

sets forth  the  status  of  procurement  under  the  Project,  as  at  the 
end of the period covered by said report. 

(b)  

 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar  quarter; thereafter,  each  FMR  shall  be  furnished to the  Bank  not later than  45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter 
 

- 13 –

ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 

 
Section  5.01. The  following  event  is specified  as an additional  condition  to the 
effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.01(c)  of  the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Operational Manual shall have been finalized in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank. 

 
Section  5.02.  The  date  August  2,  2006  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of 

Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 

 

ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

 
Section  6.01.    The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as 
representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 

For the Borrower: 

Ministerio de Hacienda 
Chile 128 c/ Palma 
Asunción, Paraguay 
Facsimile:   (595-21) 448 283 

Copy to: 

Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social 
Silvio Pettirossi y Brasil 
Asunción, Paraguay 
Facsimile: (595 21) 214741 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

- 14 –

For the Bank: 

International Bank for 

Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
  64145 (MCI) 

(202) 477-6391 

- 15 –

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their  duly 
authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 

 

 

 
 

By /s/ Ernst Bergen 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Pamela Cox 

Authorized Representative 
 

- 16 –

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be  financed  out  of  the 
1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars)

% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed

68,000 

3,732,000 

1,789,000 

3,970,000 

8,288,000 

2,100,000 

 1,998,000 

100%  

100% 

100% 

100%  

80% first two 
years up to a 
maximum of 
$2,000,000; 
and 60% 
thereafter 

100% 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Category

and Audits 

(1)  Works 
 
(2)  Goods  
 
(3)  Consultants’ Services 
 
 
(4)  Training 
 
(5)  Capitation Payments 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(6)  Operating Costs 
 
(7)  Unallocated 
 

(8)  Front-end fee 

 55,000 

TOTAL 

_________
22,000,000.

Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of this  
Agreement 

- 17 –

2. 

For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 

the  term  “operating  costs”  means  reasonable  ITU  and  UAPI  recurrent 
expenditures,  which  would  not  have  been  incurred  absent  the  Project,  including  office 
supplies  and  maintenance,  communications,  vehicle  operation  and  rental,  transport  and 
per diems and travel expenses for ITU, UAPI staff and mobile  teams under Part A.2 of 
the Project; and  
 
(b) 

the  term  “training”  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower  to 
finance reasonable expenditures for rental of training facilities, materials and equipment, 
non-consultant training services and per diems of trainers and trainees. 
 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no  withdrawals  shall  be 
3. 
made  in  respect  of:  (a)  payments  made  for  expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,200,000, 
may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that  date  but  after 
July 1, 2005; and (b) payments in respect of Category 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 to  this  Schedule;  until:  (i)  the  MCBI  Fund  Administrative  Unit  shall  have  been  duly 
established; (ii) the Technical Concurrent Auditor and Financial Concurrent Auditor shall 
have  been  contracted;  (iii)  the  Operational  Guidelines  shall  have  been  finalized  in  a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) with respect to each Participating Department, the 
relevant  Annual  Management  Agreement  shall  have  been  duly  executed;  and  (v)  the 
financial management system for the MCBI Fund shall have been established in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
The  Bank  may  require  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  to  be  made  on  the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less  than  $150,000  equivalent  per  contract;  (b)  works  costing  less  than  $350,000 
equivalent  per  contract;  (c)  services  of  individual  consultants  costing  less than  $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms and training under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 

- 18 –

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 

 
The objective of the Project is to reduce infant and maternal mortality through: 
(a)  the    increase  of  the  effective  access  to  maternal  and  child  health  services  by  the 
Borrower’s targeted population; and  (b)  the creation and implementation of the MCBI.  

 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objective: 

 

Part A:

Implementation of the MCBI 

Making Capitation Payments for MCBI services. 

1. 
 
Reaching  dispersed  and  isolated  populations  in  Participating  Departments 
2. 
through the delivery of EPS, enrollment of population in MCBI and provision of health 
education services.  

Strengthening of Stewardship and Capacity

Strengthening the MSPBS’ capacity to launch, regulate, manage and monitor the 

 
Part B:

1. 
MCBI  through the: 

 
(a) 

2. 

establishment of the ITU; and 
 
development  of  the  MSPBS’  service  purchasing  capacity,  as  well  as 
setting up of managerial and administrative systems for overseeing the implementation of 
the MCBI  and the delivery of the EPS by Authorized Health Service Providers. 

(b) 

 

Strengthening  the  capacity  and  the  service  quality  needed  to  launch  and 

3. 
implement the MCBI and to deliver the EPS, through the: 
 

(a) 

establishment  of  start-up/monitoring  teams  to  enhance  the  DRs’  and 
Authorized  Health  Services  Providers’  technical,  managerial,  service  quality  and 
supervision capacity; 
 

(b) 

implementation  of 

the  remedial  actions  suggested  by 

the  start-

up/monitoring teams under 2(a) above; and 
 

equipment for the health facilities to deliver the EPS.  
 

(c) 

provision  of  basic  waste  management,  transport  and  communication 

- 19 –

Part C:

Communication and Community Outreach

1. 
Disseminating  of  information  about the  Project’s  activities  in  the  Participating 
Departments, as well as  promoting the  Eligible Population’s enrollment in the MCBI, 
with special attention to the dissemination of information regarding services available to 
Enrolled  Population  including  indigenous  peoples  groups,  through  the  provision  of 
technical  assistance  to:  (a)  Regional  and  Local  Health  Councils  to  establish  social 
monitoring  and  auditing  mechanisms  for  the  MCBI;  (b)  support  Authorized  Health 
Services Providers through the enrolment and training of community health workers; and 
(c)  Regional  and  Local  Health  Councils  that  request  support  to  establish  social 
pharmacies. 

 

Carrying  out  of  selected  studies  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the  results  of  the 

2. 
activities under this Part C of the Project.  
 
Part D: MCBI Program Monitoring, Evaluation and Concurrent Auditing

1. 

Strengthening the capacity of MSPBS to: 
 
(a) 

monitor, evaluate and audit the MCBI, through the provision of technical 
assistance  and  support  for  the  carrying  out  of  auditing  services  under  the  Project, 
purchasing of software and equipment, and the provision of specialized training; and 

 

(b) 

develop and implement operational and strategic changes to increase the 

Carrying out of technical and financial concurrent audits and standard financial 

effectiveness of the MCBI. 
 
2. 
audits. 
 
3. 
demographic and sexual and reproductive health survey scheduled for 2010-2011.  
 
Part E: Project Management

Carrying  out  of  end-of-Project  evaluation  activities,  including  a  national 

Strengthening  of  the  ITU  through  the  provision  of  technical  assistance, 

equipment and the financing of operating costs.  

 

* * *

The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2011. 

- 20 –

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date,  such  repayment  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 

 

 

 
 

Payment Date

On each May 15 and November 15 

Beginning November 15, 2010 
through November 15, 2027 

On May 15, 2028 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)

2.78% 

2.70% 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
2.  
If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  not  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any  withdrawal  made  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such  withdrawal  in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  (the  Original 
Installment  Share)  and  the  denominator  of  which  shall  be  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
Withdrawals  made  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 

(a) 

- 21 –

Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 

 
(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if  at  any  time  the  Bank  shall adopt  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which invoices  are 
issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of  such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period, 
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  said  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
5. 
shall  be  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan  Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule 
shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

- 22 –

SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 

Section I.

General

All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
A. 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I  of  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of  the  “Guidelines:    Selection  and  Employment  of  Consultants  by  World  Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Schedule  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)

A. 
International  Competitive  Bidding. Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  B  of 
this  Section,  contracts  shall  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of  International  Competitive 
Bidding.    The  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines, 
providing  for  domestic  preference  in  the  evaluation  of  bids,  shall  apply  to  goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 

Other Procurement Procedures

1. 

National  Competitive  Bidding. Goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than 
$250,000  equivalent  per  contract  and  works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $3,000,000 
equivalent  per  contract,  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
National Competitive Bidding. 

Shopping. Works    estimated  to  cost  less  than  $250,000  equivalent  per 
contract  and goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 

Direct  Contracting. Goods  and  works  which  the  Bank  agrees  meet  the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

- 23 –

4. 

Procurement  from  UN  Agencies. Vehicles  regardless  of  cost,  may  be 
procured  directly  from    the  Inter  Agency  Procurement  Services  (IAPSO),  vaccines 
regardless of cost may be procured directly from the Pan American Health Organization 
(PAHO), and drugs regardless of cost may be procured directly from the United Nations 
Procurement  and  Assembling  Center  (UNIPAC),  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Section III.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  Part  B  of 
A. 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. 

Other Procedures

1. 

Least-cost  Selection. Services  for  assignments  estimated  to  cost  less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract and which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Selection  Based  on  Consultants’  Qualifications. Services  estimated  to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3.1,  3.7  and  3.8  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines. 

Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the  requirements  of  paragraph  3.10  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  Single  Source 
Selection,  may,  with  the  Bank's  prior  agreement,  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Individual  Consultants.

Services  for  assignments  that  meet  the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  to  individual  consultants  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  paragraphs  5.2  through  5.3  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines.    Under  the 
circumstances  described  in  paragraph  5.4  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  such  contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 

The  following  provisions  shall  apply  to  consultants’  services  to  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  preceding 
paragraph:   

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
(a) 

 

- 24 –

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 Contracts  with  a  total  duration  of  six  months  or  more  shall  be 
advertised in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines; and. 

 except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
cancel,  waive or fail to enforce any contract procured under this 
Part B. 

 

Section IV.

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  the 
following  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Prior  Review  by  the  Bank:  (a)  each  contract 
procured in  accordance  with  the  procedures  referred to  in  A.1  above;   (b) the  first  two 
contracts in each year procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in B.1 and 
B.2 above;  and (c) with respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in A above and estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Bank.  
 

- 25 –

SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 

1. 

 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

the  term  “eligible  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  respect  of  the 
reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works,  Capitation  Payments  and  services  required  for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 

the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of US$2,200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of US$500,000  until the 
aggregate  amount  of  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  plus  the  total  amount  of  all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$2,200,000. 
 
2. 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible 

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the  Bank  a request  or requests  for  deposit  into  the  Special  Account of an amount  or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(i) 

(ii) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for  deposits  into  the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 

Prior to  or  at the  time  of  each  such request, the  Borrower  shall 
furnish  to  the  Bank  the  documents  and  other  evidence  required 
pursuant  to  paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 

 
(b) 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

- 26 –

basis  of  each  such  request,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall  have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible  expenditures.  All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by 
the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the  respective  eligible 
Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
4. 
For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special  Account,  the 
Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph  3  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  shall 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all  further 
withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the  Loan  Account  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of  time  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement,  any  of  the  audit  reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 

(d) 

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions,  shall  equal  the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 

- 27 –

(a) 

6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the 
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank:  (A)  provide  such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until  the  Borrower  has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit  or  refund,  as  the 
case may be. 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any  amount 
outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to  cover  further  payments  for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  all  or 

any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

Refunds  to  the  Bank  made  pursuant  to  paragraphs  6  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of 
this  Schedule  shall  be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

