CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7449-AR 

Loan Agreement 

 

(State Modernization II Project) 
 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated December 28, 2007 

LOAN NUMBER 7449-AR 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement dated December 28, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 

an integral part of this Agreement. 

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 

 
1.02. 

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  twenty  million  Dollars  ($20,000,000),  as  such 
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02. The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03. The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  three-fourths  of  one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 

 
2.04. The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  percent  (1.0%)  of  the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  

 
2.05. The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest 
payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be 
determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.06. The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 

2

2.07. The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower, through CCO, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and the Operational Manual. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 

4.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness   
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no  
 
 
case later than eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which   
 
 
expire on November 28, 2008. 
 

3

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
 

Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1086AAB, Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Cable:   
MINISTERIO DE         121942-AR 
DE ECONOMIA Y  
PRODUCCION 
Baires   
  
 

Telex:   

 

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
 

Facsimile: 
(54 11) 4349-8815 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

4

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 

By/s/ Martín Lousteau 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By/s/ Pedro Alba 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the strengthening of CCO’s capacity to: 
(i) engage in organizational strengthening in selected public sector management areas within the 
CCO; (ii) design a state modernization strategy, promote change management, and monitor and 
evaluate  selected  Borrower’s  programs  and  projects  related  to  national  priority  policies;  and 
(iii)  promote the  design  and  consolidation  of  key  public  sector  management  systems  under the 
CCO’s  mandate,  including  e-government,  procurement,  human  resources  management,  and 
quality management; and (b) support the knowledge and capacity-building of ANDI. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part 1: Institutional Strengthening of CCO
(a) 

Strengthening of CCO’s organizational strategy, through, inter alia:

(i) 

the design of an institutional strategy for the CCO, through, inter alia, the carrying 
out  of  an  assessment  of  its  mandate,  organizational  and  functional  capacity, 
processes and performance metrics; 

(ii)  the  strengthening  of  its  state  modernization  strategy,  based  on  the  carrying  out  of 
assessments  of  current  state  modernization  initiatives  supported  by  the  Project 
and international best practices; and  

 
(iii)  the development of change management tools, through the engagement of public and 
private  sector  institutions,  civil  society  organizations,  the  Borrower’s  provinces 
and municipalities, and other relevant stakeholders, so as to promote the use of 
public  sector  management  systems  (including  e-government,  procurement, 
human resources management, and quality management) at the federal level, as 
well as their dissemination and promotion at the provincial and municipal levels.  

Strengthening of CCO’s monitoring and evaluation capacity, through, inter alia:

(i) 

 

(ii) 

the design of a technical arrangement between the CCO and the Borrower’s other 
ministries for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of public policies, and 
thereafter implementation of the same;  

(A)  the  design  of  systems  for  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Borrower’s 
programs and projects related to national priority policies, including the design of 
methodologies  for  the identification  of  said  programs  and  projects;  and  (B)  the 
strengthening of monitoring and  results-based management tools; 

(iii) 

technical support to the CCO for the design and coordination of pilot programs to 
promote the implementation of the monitoring tools mentioned in (ii) (B) above 
in the Borrower’s other ministries and the Borrower’s Congress; and 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

6

(iv) 

institutional  strengthening  of  the  DINAPPFE,  including  the  carrying  out  of  an 
assessment of the consultants hired by Bank-funded projects, and the design of a 
strategy based on the results of said assessment. 

Strengthening of ANDI, through, inter alia:

 
(c) 

(i) 

knowledge-building and –sharing, through the development of a methodology for 
a systematic  and  comparable  ground  assessment  of  selected  productive  sectors 
and clusters which have significant development potential, and the carrying out 
of assessments of each selected sectors and clusters focusing on the identification 
of opportunities for innovation;  

(ii) 

the promotion of Argentina as an attractive place to invest;  

(iii) 

the strengthening of the linkages between investment promotion and innovation; 
and 

(iv) 

the strengthening of ANDI’s  staff on investment promotion. 

 
Part 2: Strengthening Key Public Sector Management Systems
(a) 

Strengthening of the Borrower’s E-Government system, through, inter alia:

the  improvement  of  the  e-government  enabling  environment  for  public  sector 
modernization within the existing policy framework on e-government;  
 
the  strengthening  of  e-government  coordination  mechanisms,  including  the 
installation of a safe room (sala-cofre), all aimed to ensure an integrated, secure, 
and  paperless  administration  by  digitalizing  and  simplifying  government 
procedures and information channels; and  

the  improvement  of  the  Borrower’s  portal  (www.argentina.gov.ar) and  the 
implementation of a federal-level call center as single access point for citizens for 
government services. 

 
(b) 

Strengthening of the Borrower’s procurement system, through, inter alia:

the promotion and the implementation of the SECOP throughout the Borrower’s 
federal administration, and the strengthening of Argentina Compra;  

the carrying out of outreach and training activities aimed at increasing the base of 
bidders;  

the  development  and  implementation  of  integrity  agreements  (Pactos  de 
Integridad) to  be  signed  between  the  Borrower  (through  its  relevant  agencies 
and/or  entities)    and  bidders    for  purposes  of  enhancing  the  transparency  and 
impartiality  of  the  procurement  process  and  the  supervision  of  contract 
execution; and  

(i)  

(ii)  

 
(iii) 

(i)  

(ii)  

(iii) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

 
(c) 
alia:

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

 

 
(ii) 

(iv)  

the design and implementation of cost-reduction programs through “quick gains” 
methodologies. 

Strengthening  of  the  Borrower’s  human  resource  management  systems,  through,  inter 

the design of common rules and compensation standards throughout the federal 
administration;  

the formulation of detailed job descriptions (nomenclador de puestos) and career 
paths for common federal civil service positions;  

the  expansion  of  the  coverage  of  the  Borrower’s  centralized  personnel  registry 
(Sistema  de  Información  de  Personal  (SINFO))  to  include  all  federal  civilian 
employees, and the definition of basic personnel information to be standardized 
and  maintained  electronically  in  the  Legajo  Único  de  Personal  Informatizado 
(LUPI) system; and 

the  strengthening  of  the  capacity  of  the  CCO’s  National  Training  Institute 
(Instituto Nacional de la Administración Pública (INAP)) to design, implement, 
monitor and evaluate learning courses, on the public sector management systems 
supported under the Project. 

(d) 

(i)  

Strengthening of the Borrower’s quality management system, through, inter alia:

(A)  
 
 

(B)  
 

the  implementation  of  new  mechanisms  to  improve  the  definition  and 
dissemination  of  indicators,  quality  standards  and  benchmarks  for  the 
Citizens Charter Program; and 

the expansion of instruments for users’ feedback, such as citizen’s report 
card mechanisms.  

Strengthening  of  access to  information, through,  inter  alia, the  enhancement  of  
citizens’  access  to  information  as  provided  by  the  Borrower’s  Decree  No. 
1172/2003, including  the design of an electronic platform.  

 
Part 3: Project Management

Operation and maintenance of the PIU, for purposes of assisting the CCO in, inter alia,

the coordination and implementation of the Project. 

8

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements

Section I. 

1. 

(a)   

 

(b)   

The  Borrower  shall  establish  and  thereafter  operate  and  maintain,  at  all  times 
during  Project  implementation  and  within  the  State  Modernization  Directorate, 
the  PIU  with  a  structure,  functions  and  responsibilities  set  forth  in  the 
Operational Manual. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  PIU  is,  at  all  times  during  Project 
implementation,  headed  by  a  Project  coordinator  (Coordinador  General),  and 
comprised of professional and administrative staff, all in numbers and with terms 
of reference, and qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Bank. 

(c) 

(d) 

(a)  
 
 

(b)  

The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall,  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any  Project 
activity  which  requires  the  participation  of  a  given  Borrower’s  agency  and/or 
entity,  enter  into  a  separate  arrangement  (convenio  marco) with  such  agency 
and/or  entity,  the  terms  and  conditions  of  which  shall  include,  inter  alia, the 
obligation  of  such  agency  and/or  entity  to  undertake  all  necessary  actions  to 
enable the Borrower to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement. 

The  Borrower  shall,  prior  to  the  commencement  of  each  calendar  year  during 
Project  implementation,  create,  and  thereafter  maintain  throughout  each  said 
calendar  year  of  Project  implementation,  a  specific  budget  line  entry  in  the 
relevant annual budget in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures 
incurred during Project implementation. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  CCO,  shall,  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  the  small 
works under Part 2 (a) (ii) of the Project, carry out an environmental screening of 
said works, in a manner and on terms acceptable to the Bank; and 

immediately  thereafter,  implement  and/or  cause  to  be  implemented,  all 
environmental mitigatory measures identified in said environmental screening, if 
any, all in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of Project indicators set forth in the Operational Manual. Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester of each year (starting with 

2. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

4. 

9

the  first  calendar  semester  of  the  year  2008)  and  60  days  after  the  end  of  the  second 
calendar semester of each year. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section  and  as  part  of  the 
information to be included in the Project Report, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to  the  Bank  not later  than 45  days  after the end of first  calendar semester  of  each  year 
(starting with the first calendar semester of the year 2008) and 60 days after the end of 
the  second  calendar  semester  of  each  year,  interim  un-audited  financial  reports  for  the 
Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 

Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-Consultant 
Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
 Special Provisions.   Without limitation to the other provisions of this Section III, the 
following  additional  provisions  shall  also  govern  the  procurement  of  goods,  works  and 
Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 

(a) 
 
 
 

procurement of goods, works, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services 
(in respect of firms) shall be carried out using standard bidding documents  and 
standard  requests  for  quotations/proposals,  all  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which 
shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision; 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

 

10 

(b) 
 

(c) 
 
 
 
 
 

(d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(f)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(g) 
 
 
 

(h) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

a  two-envelope  bidding  procedure  shall  not  be  allowed  in  the  procurement  of 
goods and Non-Consultant Services;  

after  the  public  opening  of  bids  for  goods  and  Non-Consultant  Services, 
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and 
recommendations  concerning  awards,  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  bidders  or  other 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award.  In  addition,  bidders  and/or  other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with 
said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids; 

after  the  public  opening  of  consultants’  proposals,  information  relating  to  the 
examination,  clarification  and  evaluation  of  proposals  and  recommendations 
concerning  awards,  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  consultants  or  other  persons  not 
officially  concerned  with  this  process  until  the  publication  of  contract  award 
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). In 
addition,  consultants  and/or  other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with  said 
process  shall  not  be  allowed  to  review  or  make  copies  of  other  consultants’ 
proposals; 

(e)    
 
 
 

bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a 
representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine 
suppliers, contractors or consultants; 

the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions  of  interest  and  the  pertinent  summary  of  the  evaluation  reports  of 
bids  and  proposals  of  all  goods,  Non-Consultant  Services  and  consultants’ 
services,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  be  published  in  the  web  page  of  the 
Borrower’s  Office  of  National  Procurement 
(Oficina  Nacional  de 
Contrataciones),  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  The  bidding  period 
shall be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of 
the  availability  of the  bidding  documents,  whichever is  later, to  the  date  of  bid 
opening;  

the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and Non-
Consultant  Services  to  be  procured  under  National  Competitive  Bidding 
procedures; 

references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower in determining if the bidder in respect of goods and Non-Consultant 
Services whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid has the 
capability and resources to effectively carry out the contract as offered in the bid, 
as  referred  to  in  the  provision  set  forth  in  paragraph  2.58  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines.  The  provision  set  forth  in  paragraph  2.58  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines  (including  the limitation  set forth  herein) shall  also  be  applicable to 

11 

 

(i) 
 

(j) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(l) 
 
 
 

contracts for goods and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures;  

witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award; 

the Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement Plans 
Execution  System  (SEPA)  with  the  information  contained  in  the  initial 
Procurement Plan within 30 days after such plan has been approved by the Bank; 
and  (ii)  update  the  Procurement  Plan  at  least  biannually,  or  as  required  by  the 
Bank, to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and progress and shall 
supply  the  Bank’s  Procurement  Plans  Execution  System  with  the  information 
contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 

(k) 

consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities; and 

the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the 
contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with 
the proceeds of the Loan. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services  

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraphs  A.4 
above and B.2 below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement. The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of 
procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for 
goods,  works  and  Non-Consultant  Services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method

(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

12 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 
 
 
 
 

Procurement Method

(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Single Source Selection 
(c)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(d)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.4  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the 

selection of individual consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 

Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 

 

16,200,000 

(1) Goods, works, Operating 
Costs, Non-Consultant 
Services, consultants’ services  
and Training for Parts 1 and 2 
of the Project 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 

90%  of  Eligible  Expenditures 
paid  by  the  Borrower  during 
the  calendar  year  2008;  80% 
of  Eligible  Expenditures  paid 
by  the  Borrower  during  the 
calendar  year  2009;  73%  of  
Eligible  Expenditures  paid  by 
the  Borrower  during 
the 
calendar  year  2010;  and  70% 
of  Eligible  Expenditures  paid 
by  the  Borrower  during  the 
calendar year 2011 
 

13 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
200,000

 

Category 

 

(2) Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, Operating Costs, 
consultants’ services provided 
by a firm and Training for Part 
3 of the Project 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
 

90% of  Eligible  Expenditures 
paid  by  the  Borrower  during 
the  calendar  year  2008;  80% 
of  Eligible  Expenditures  paid 
by  the  Borrower  during  the 
calendar  year  2009;  73%  of  
Eligible  Expenditures  paid  by 
the  Borrower  during 
the 
calendar  year  2010;  and  70% 
of  Eligible  Expenditures  paid 
by  the  Borrower    during  the 
calendar year 2011 
 
 
 

100% 

(c)  of 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
this 
Section  2.08 
Agreement 
 
Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
this 
Section 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 

2.04 

of 

(3) Consultants’ services 
provided by individuals for 
Part 3 of the Project 
 
(4) Premium for Interest-Rate 
Caps and Collars 
 

(5) Front-end Fee 

1,500,000 

0

0 

 

 
 
 

(6) Unallocated 

2,100,000 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

20,000,000 

 

For purposes of this table: 
 

(a)  
 
 
 
 

(b) 

the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures, based on an 
annual  budget  previously  approved  by  the  Bank,  that  would  not  have  been 
incurred by the Borrower absent the Project, for Project administration costs of 
the PIU (including office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, 
non-durable goods; and 

 the  term  “Training”  means  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, as approved by the Bank on the basis of an 
annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance reasonable transportation costs 
and  per-diem  of  trainees  and  trainers  (if  applicable),  training  registration  fees, 
and rental of training facilities and equipment under the Project. 

14 

 

B. 
 
1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to the date of this Agreement but on or after January 1, 2008 (but in no case more 
than  one  year  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement)  for  Eligible  Expenditures  for 
Categories (1), (2) and (3).  

The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 

15 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each January 1 and July 1 
Beginning July 1, 2012  
through January 1, 2022 

 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

5% 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

4. 

 
5. 

(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

16 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

10. 

17 

APPENDIX 

Definitions 
 

 “ANDI” means the National Investment Development Agency (Agencia Nacional de 
Desarrollo  de  Inversiones),  a  decentralized  bureau  within  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of 
Economy and Production. 

“Argentina 

Compra”  means 

the 

procurement 

portal 

of 

SECOP 

(www.argentinacompra.gov.ar). 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 

“CCO”  means  the  Borrower’s  Chief  of  Cabinet  Office  (Jefatura  de  Gabinete  de 

Agreement. 

Ministros). 

“Citizen’s Charter Program” or “CCP” means the Citizen’s Charter Program (Carta 
Compromiso  con  el  Ciudadano) established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower’s  Decree  No. 
229/2000 dated March 8, 2000 published in the Borrower’s National Official Bulletin on 
March  14,  2000,  to  set  quality  standards  for  the  provision  of  public  services  by 
participating government agencies. 

 “Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 

Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“DINAPPFE”  means  the  Dirección Nacional  de  Programas  y  Proyectos  con 
Financiamiento Externo, the CCO’s National Directorate of Programs and Projects with 
External Financing. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 

Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

“Non-Consultant Services” means services under the Project to be bid and contracted 
on  the  basis  of  performance  of  measurable  physical  outputs,  including  (without 
limitation) logistics, organization of seminars, workshops, travel, printing services. 
 

“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to the Bank, dated 
April  27,  2007  which  sets  forth,  inter  alia: (i)  the  institutional  and  administrative 
structure of the PIU, including its functions and responsibilities; (ii) the Project’s chart of 
accounts,  internal  controls,  and  budgeting,  accounting  and  financial  reporting  systems; 
(iii) the format of: (A) the unaudited interim financial reports referred to in Section II. B. 
2 of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement;  and  (B)  the  Financial  Statements;  (iv)  the  terms  of 
reference  for  carrying  out  the  Project  audits  under  Section  II.B.3  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement; (v) the Project’s flow of funds structure; (vi) the Project indicators; and (vii) 
the  Project’s  administrative  and  procurement  procedures,  as  said  manual  may  be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 

18 

“PIU”  means  the  Project  Implementation  Unit  referred  to  in  paragraph  1(a)  of 

Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans 

and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated 
April 16,  2007  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“SECOP”  means  the  electronic  procurement  system  set  forth  in  the  Borrower’s 
Presidential Decree No. 1818 of December 6, 2006, published in the Borrower’s National 
Official Bulletin on December 11, 2006. 

“State  Modernization  Directorate”  means  the  Dirección  Nacional  Alterna  del 
Proyecto  de  Modernización  del  Estado  established  within  CCO  pursuant  to  the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 1723/2005 dated December 29, 2005 published in the Borrower’s 
2006.
National 

Bulletin 

January 

Official 

18, 

on 

 

11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 

