CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7474-AR 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Lifelong Learning and Training Project) 
 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated November 26, 2007 

LOAN NUMBER 7474-AR 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement dated November 26, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such 
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  

 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest 
payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be 
determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.06.  The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
 

-2- 

 

 

 

 

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 

Borrower, shall, through the Ministry of Labor, carry out: 

Parts  A.1.  (a)  and  (b),  and  A.3  of  the  Project  with  the  assistance  of  Sector 
Organizations; 

Part A.2. (a) of the Project with the assistance of the Sector Organizations and the 
IFPs as the case may be; 

Part B.1. of the Project with the assistance of the Participating Provinces; 

Part B.2 of the Project with the assistance of the Adult Education Public/Private 
Entities; 

Parts  C.1  and  C.2  of  the  Project  with  the  assistance  of  the  Participating 
Municipalities; and 

Part  C.3  of  the  Project  with  the  assistance  of  the  Internship  Employers  and 
Participating Municipalities, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 
 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

-3- 

 

 

 

 

 

3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 

That  any  Executing  Entity  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  its 
Framework Agreement and/or any of its Protocols or its Implementation Agreement, as 
the case may be, and the Borrower shall have failed to exercise its remedies under such 
Framework  Agreements,  Protocols  or  Implementation  Agreements,  in  which  case  the 
Bank  may  only  suspend  in  whole  or  in  part  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred as payments to or for the 
benefit of the relevant Executing Entity. 

 
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 

The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs for all Executing Entities 
and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of  60  days  after  notice  of  the  event  for  the  last  of  the 
affected Executing Entities has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expires on December 
29, 2008.  

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1086AAB, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina 
 
Telex:   
121942-AR 

 
 

Facsimile: 
(54 11) 4349-8815 

-4- 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 

By /s/ Miguel Peirano 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ PedroAlba 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

-5- 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

The objective of the Project is to consolidate, strengthen, and increase the coverage of a 
lifelong  learning  and  competency-based  training  system  for  adults  18  years  or  older  with  the 
objectives for those who participate of: (a) enhancing employability; and (b) strengthening career 
ladder opportunities. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part A: Expansion and Strengthening of Competency-based Training and Certification

1. 

Establishment of Competency-based Certification Systems

(a) 

Carrying out of Competency Normalization Activities consisting of: 

development  of  occupational  competency-based  standards  of  the  CNA 
Key Sectors and registration of such standards in REGICE;  

(i) 

 
(ii) 
 
(iii) 

training and certification of evaluators; and 

registration of Assessment Centers. 

(b) 

Carrying  out  of    analysis  and  promotional  activities  on  the  CNAs,  training  of 
sector experts on the new competencies, and provision of equipment and supplies 
to Certification Organizations and Assessment Centers. 

(c) 

Registration and accreditation of Certification Organizations. 

Alignment of Training with Competency-based Approach and Strengthening of IFPs

(a) 

(b) 

Carrying  out  of  Curricular  Alignment  Activities  consisting  of  development  and 
publication of curricular designs and didactic materials needed to align training 
with the occupational standards registered under Part A.1 (a) of the Project. 

Training of selected staff of IFPs in the competency-based approach referred to 
in Part A.1 (a) above, and provision of equipment and other technical assistance 
as required to implement the competency-based approach. 

(c) 

Certification of IFPs. 

Training, Assessment and Certification of Workers

Training  about  250,000  workers  in  selected  competencies  of  their  occupations  through 
courses  developed  on  standards  competencies  relevant  to  such  occupations,  assessment  of  the 
competencies  of  about  100,000  workers,  and  certification  of  about  70,000  workers  of  those 
assessed. 

-6- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2. 

3. 

Part B: Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults

1. 

Development of Adult Education Policies and Programs, and Quality Improvement and 
Coverage Expansion of Adult Education Services in the Participating Provinces

(a)  Development of methodologies to make the supply of adult education more flexible 
with respect to scheduling and curricular content, modular and competency-based, 
and recognizing and crediting of previous knowledge independent of its source. 

(b)  Publication  of  didactic  materials  as  required  for  dissemination  and  application  of 

the methodologies developed under Part B.1 (a) above. 

(c)  Training  of  adult  education 

instructors 

in 

innovative  service  deliveries 

methodologies (including those in Part B.1 (a) above). 

(d)  Carrying  out  of  Adult  Education  Activities  consisting  of  delivery  of  basic  or 

secondary education services to adults. 

(e)  Carrying  out  of  workshops  with  relevant  stakeholders  to  define  curricula  of 

vocational training to supplement adult education. 

(f)  Carrying out of outreach activities to promote adult education and facilitate access 

to such education. 

(g)  Strengthening  the  capacity  of  adult  education  institutions  in  the  management  of 

their resources and the service delivery information. 

Carrying  out  of  selected  activities  of  those  set  forth  in  Part  B.1  (a)  through  (g)  of  the 

Adult Education Subprojects

Project (the Adult Education Subprojects). 

 
Monitoring

Monitoring of the activities carried out under Parts B.1 and B.2 above. 

 
Part C: Promotion of Youth Employment

1. 

Employment and Career Orientation for Youth

(a) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  Participating  Municipalities’  employment  offices 
to:  (i)  provide  orientation  and  counseling  services  to  Youth  who  have  not 
completed secondary education on education and training possibilities under the 
Project;  (ii)  inform  employers  about  the  Youth  Internship  Subprojects  to  be 
carried  out  under  the  Project;  and  (iii)  assist  Internship  employers  in  the 
preparation  of  Youth  Internship  Subprojects,  including  the  provision  of 
consultants’  services,  training  (including  interviewing  skills,  counseling  and 
relations with employers), office refurbishing, and equipment. 

-7- 

 

 

 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
2. 

 

(b) 

Carrying out of outreach programs to disseminate: (i) at the national; and (ii) at 
the municipal level, the activities under Part C.1 (a) above. 

Facilitating Training and/or Education Opportunities for Youth

(a) 

Development of: (i) competency-based training and standards for basic skills for 
Youth as well as; (ii) courses and manuals and materials related to Part 2 (a) (i) 
above; 

(b) 

training of teachers teaching Youth; and 

(c) 

training and assessment of Youth on basic skills and other relevant competencies. 

Internships for Youth

(a) 

Carrying out of activities related to the placement of Youth, including internships, 
on  the  job  and  classroom  training,  and  assessment  and  certification  of 
competencies (the Youth Internship Subprojects). 

(b) 

Training  of  tutors  involved  in  Youth  Internships  Subprojects  and  monitoring  of 
the implementation of the Youth Internship Subprojects. 

 
Part D: Management and Information System, Project Management and Studies

1. 

Integrated Management Systems

Installation  of  an  integrated  management  and  information  system  in  the  Ministry  of 
Labor, including office refurbishing, and training required therefor. 

Project Management

Operation of the TCU. 

(a) 

(b) 

Carrying out of households surveys, impact evaluations, and studies proposed by 
the  Borrower  and  agreed  to  by  the  Bank,  including  one  related  to  the 
development of a long-term strategy for a lifelong learning system in Argentina 
and the financing requirements and sources therefor. 

 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

 
4. 

-8- 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Implementation Arrangements

The  Borrower  shall  not  later  than  two  months  after  the  Effective  Date  establish,  and 
thereafter  maintain,  during  the  execution  of  the  Project,  within  the  Secretariat  of 
Employment  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  a  technical  coordination  unit  (TCU)  to  manage 
Project  implementation  on  behalf  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  with  functions  and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a coordinator, technical experts 
and other personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  monitor  the  implementation  of  the 
CNAs, the CAAs, and the AEAs, on a periodic basis, all under terms acceptable to the 
Bank.  

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  review,  through  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  jointly  with  the 
Bank  and  not  later  than:  (I)  12  months  after  the  Effective  Date  and  yearly 
thereafter, the amounts to be paid for the fees referred to in Section IV. A.2 (c) of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  (II)  24  months  after  the  Effective  Date  the 
CNA  Eligible  Costs,  the  CAA  Eligible  Costs,  the  AEA  Eligible  Costs,  and  the 
Unit  Costs;  and  (ii)  adjust  them  as  necessary,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank.  

(b) 

  Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  subparagraph  (a)  the  Borrower  may, 
  through  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  propose  to  the  Bank  additional  reviews  of  the 
  CNA  Eligible  Costs,  the  CAA  Eligible  Costs,  the  AEA  Eligible  Costs  and  the 
  Unit Costs earlier or later than as set forth in such subparagraph and, after such 
  reviews, adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall,  through  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an 
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, inter alia:

the  terms  of  reference,  functions  and  responsibilities  for  the  personnel  of  the 
TCU responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 

the  criteria,  detailed  rules  and  procedures  for  CNA,  CAA  and  AEA 
implementation,  the  CNA  Eligible  Costs,  the  CAA  Eligible  Costs,  the  AEA 
Eligible Costs, and the Unit Costs; 

procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management and audits of the Project (including the special audits referred to in 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement); 

the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 
 

-9- 

 

 

 
5. 
 

(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 
 
(h) 

(a) 

draft  models  for  the  Framework  Agreements,  (including  their  Protocols)  and 
Implementation Agreements;  

the 
flow  and  disbursement  arrangements  of  Project 
reimbursement mechanisms of the CNA Eligible Costs, CAA Eligible Costs, and 
AEA Eligible Costs based on Unit Costs;  

including 

funds, 

the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework; and 

the criteria for the selection, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of Adult 
Education Subprojects and Youth Internship Subprojects (including the financing 
of Stipends). 

In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  those  of  the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 

The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Labor, enter into:  

a  one  year  term  agreement  or  agreements,  under  terms  substantially  in 
accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  respective  Model  Framework  Agreement,  in 
respect  of  Parts  A.1,  A.2  (a)  and  A.3  of  the  Project  with  each  Sector 
Organizations to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor 
and the Sector Organization in the implementation of Parts A.1, A.2 (a) and A.3 
of the Project as the case maybe, including, inter alia:

(i) 

the  Sector  Organization’s  obligation  to:  (I)  identify  and  select  the 
Certification  Organizations  and  Assessment  Centers,  and  pay  to  the 
Certification Organizations and Assessment Centers the fees charged for 
certifications and assessments; (II) carry out the CNAs and CAAs; (III) 
establish  Technical  Units  and  contract  the  analysis  and  other  activities 
referred  to  in  Part  A.1  (b)  of  the  Project;  (IV)  follow  the  financial 
management requirements of the Project; (V) enter into, by not later than 
three  months  from  the  date  of  the  Framework  Agreement,  a  protocol 
setting forth the specific activities to be carried out during the term of the 
Protocol;  (VI)  comply  with  a  time-bound  action  plan  and  other 
obligations specified in the Protocol; and (VII) in respect of Part A.2 (a) 
of the Project engage its training institutes or training staff to assist in the 
implementation of the CAA; and 

the  Ministry  of  Labor’s  obligation  to  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
available for the financing of the CNAs and CAAs;  

a  one  year  term  agreement  or  agreements,  under  terms  substantially  in 
accordance  with  the terms  of  the  respective  Model  Implementation  Agreement, 
in respect of Part A.2 (a) of the Project with each IFP to set forth the respective 
responsibilities  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  the  IFP  in  the  implementation  of 
Parts A.2 (a) of the Project, including, inter alia, the IFP’s obligation to: (i) carry 
out the CNAs; and (ii) comply mutatis mutandi with the requirements set forth in 
Section I. 5 (a) (i) (IV) and (VI) of this Schedule. 

 
(ii) 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

 

-10- 

(c) 

a  two  year  term  agreement  or  agreements,  under  terms  substantially  in 
accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  respective  Model  Framework  Agreement,  in 
respect of Part B.1 of the Project with each Participating Province to set forth the 
respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor and the Participating Province 
in the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project, including, inter alia:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i)  

the  Participating  Province’s  obligation  to:  (I)  carry  out  Part  B  of  the 
Project; (II) enter into, by not later than nine months from the date of the 
Framework  Agreement,  a  protocol,  and  subsequent  ones  if  needed, 
setting forth the specific activities to be carried out during the term of the 
Protocol;  (III)  comply  with  a  time-bound  action  plan  and  meet  the 
indicators and other obligations specified in the Protocol; (IV) in the case 
of IPPF Entities comply with the requirements of the IPPF and carry out 
the  IPPs  when  applicable;  and  (V)  finance  out  of  its  own  resources  in 
whole or in part the portion of the Unit Costs of the AEAs not financed 
by  the  Loan  as  AEA  Eligible  Costs,  as  set  forth  in  the  Operational 
Manual; and 
 
the Ministry of Labor’s obligation to: (I) make available the proceeds of 
the Loan to finance the AEAs and consultants’ services for Part B.1 (a) 
of  the  Project;  and  (II)  contract  and  finance  the  publications  and 
monitoring  under  Parts  B.1  (b)  and  (e)  of  the  Project,  and  the  teacher 
training under Part B.1 (c) of the Project; 

(d) 

a  two-year  term  agreement  or  agreements,  under  terms  substantially  in 
accordance  with  the terms  of  the  respective  Model  Implementation  Agreement, 
in  respect  of  Part  B.2  of  the  Project  with  each  Adult  Education  Public/Private 
Entity to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Labor and the 
Adult  Education  Public/Private  Entity  in  the  implementation  of  Part  B.2  of  the 
Project, including, inter alia:

the Adult Education Public/Private Entity’s obligation to:   (I) carry out 
the  Adult  Education  Subprojects;  (II)  comply  with  a  time-bound  action 
plan  and  meet  the  indicators  and  other  obligations  specified  in  the 
Implementation  Agreement;  (III)  in  the  case  of  IPPF  Entities  comply 
with  the  requirements  of  the  IPPF  and  carry  out  the  IPPs  when 
applicable; and (IV) finance out of its own resources in whole or in part 
the portion of the Unit Costs of the AEAs not financed by the Loan as 
AEA Eligible Costs, as set forth in the Operational Manual; and 

(ii) 

The  Ministry  of  Labor’s  obligations  to  pay  out  of  Loan  proceeds  the 
eligible costs of the Adult Education Subprojects; 

(e) 

a  two-year  term  agreement  or  agreements,  under  terms  substantially  in 
accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  respective  Model  Framework  Agreement,  in 
respect  of  Part  C.1  and,  as  the  case  may  be,  Part  C.2  of  the  Project  with  each 
Participating  Municipality  to  set  forth  the  respective  responsibilities  of  the 

 

 

-11- 

Ministry  of  Labor  and  the  Participating  Municipality  in  the  implementation  of 
Part C of the Project, including, inter alia:

the  Municipality’s  obligation  to:  (I)  carry  out  Parts  C.1  and  C.2  of  the 
Project  and  provide  Youth  with  training  and  employment  services  and 
meet  the  indicated  results;  (II)  follow  the  financial  management 
requirements of the Project; (III) enter into, by not later than nine months 
from the date of the Framework Agreement, a protocol, and subsequent 
ones if needed setting forth the specific activities to be carried out during 
the term of the Protocol; (IV) comply with a time-bound action plan and 
other  obligations  specified  in the  Protocol; and (V) in  the  case  of  IPPF 
Entities comply with the requirements of the IPPF and carry out the IPPs 
when applicable; and 
 
the  Ministry  of  Labor’s  obligation  to  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
available for the financing of Part C.1 and as the case maybe C.2 of the 
Project to the Participating Municipalities; and  

 
(f)  

a  two-year  term  agreement  or  agreements,  under  terms  substantially  in 
accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  respective  Model  Framework  Agreement,  in 
respect of Part C.3 of the Project, with each Participating Municipality and each 
Internship Employer to set forth the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of 
Labor,  the  Participating  Municipality  and  the  Internship  Employer  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Youth  Internship  Subprojects  under  Part  C.3  of  the 
Project, including inter alia:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

the Internship Employer’s obligation to: (I) carry out at least one Youth 
Internship  Subproject  per  year;  (II)  finance  part  of  the  cost  of  training 
and the remuneration of the interns participating in the Youth Internship 
Subproject;  (III)  follow  the  financial  management  requirements  of  the 
Project; (IV) enter into, by not later than three months from the date of 
the  Framework  Agreement  and  12  months  thereafter,  protocols  setting 
forth  the  specific  activities  to  be  carried  out  during  the  term  of  the 
Protocol;  and  (V)  assign  a  tutor  to  monitor  the  implementation  of  the 
Youth Internship Subproject;  

(ii) 

(iii) 

the  Participating  Municipality’s  obligation  to:  (I)  promote  activities  for 
Youth  in  education  and  training;  and  (II)  assist  the  Youth  with 
employment  possibilities    as  needed  after  implementation  of  the  Youth 
Internship Subproject; and  
 
the Ministry of Labor’s obligation to finance the Stipends and part of the 
training costs as identified in the Operational Manual.  

-12- 

6. 
 

 

 

A. 

1. 

 
B. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

A. 

1. 

The Borrower shall: 

(a) 

(b) 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Framework 
Agreement,  Protocol,  and  Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the 
purposes of the Loan; and 

except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  repeal, 
terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Framework  Agreement  or  Protocol  or 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 

 
Section II.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one month after the 
end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

(a) 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 

(b)  Without  limitation  to  the  requirements  of  paragraph  (a)  above,  the  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall include an opinion as to the compliance with relevant 
regulations  of  the  validation  of  certifications  by  the  Borrower’s  National 
Directorate of Orientation and Professional Training. 

 
Section III.

Procurement

General

Goods, Non-Consultants’ Services and Works. All goods, non-consultants’ services and 
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 

1. 

2. 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

 

-13- 

procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services. All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions. The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultants’ Services and Works

International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
goods,  Non-Consultants  Services  and  works  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Non-Consultants’  Services  and  Works. The 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consultants’ services and works.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 

Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Quality-based Selection 
(c) Single Source Selection 

-14- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

 
E. 

Special Provisions

The  following  special  procurement  provisions  shall  apply  to  procurement  under  the 
Project: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consultant  services  shall  be  carried  out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank; 

a  two-envelope  bidding  procedure  shall  not  be  allowed  in  the  procurement  of 
goods, works and non-consultant services; 

after  the  public  opening  of  bids,  information  relating  to  the  examination, 
clarification  and  evaluation  of  bids  and  proposals  and  recommendations 
concerning  awards  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  bidders  or  consultants  or  other 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award  (except  as  provided  in  paragraphs  2.20  and  2.27  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines); 

bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or proposals 
and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) have a 
representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine 
suppliers, contractors or consultants; 

the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions  of  interest  and  the  evaluation  reports  of  bids  and  proposals  of  all 
goods, works, non-consultant services and consultants’ services, as the case may 
be,  shall  be  published  in  the  web  page  of  the  Borrower’s  Office  of  National 
Procurement (Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones); 

the  provisions  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2.49  through  2.54  and  2.59  of  the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and non 
consultant  services  to  be  procured  under  National  Competitive  Bidding 
procedures; 

the publication of bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used 
by the Borrower in determining if the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry 
out the contract as offered in the bid, as referred to in the provisions set forth in 
paragraph  2.58  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines.  The  provision  set  forth  in 
paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines (including the limitation set forth 
herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and non-consultant services 
to be procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures; 

-15- 

 

 

 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only type of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the 
contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with 
the proceeds of the Loan; 

the  Borrower  shall:  (i)  feed  the  Bank’s  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans 
Execution  System  (SEPA)  within  30  days  of  negotiations  with  the  information 
contained in the initial Procurement Plan; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at 
least biannually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs 
and progress, and feed the SEPA with the information contained in the updated 
Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; and 

the Borrower shall include in the reports referred to in paragraph B.2 of Section 
II of this Schedule, the list of signed contracts for works, goods, non-consultant 
services and consultants’ services under the Project as reflected in the Borrower’s 
financial  management  system  (UEPEX)  during  the  period  covered  by  each  of 
said reports.  

 
Section IV.

General  

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 

69,100,000 

100% 

 

Category 

(1) Consultants’ services, non-
consultants’ services, works and 
goods (other than for CNAs, CAAs, 
AEAs,  Adult Education Subprojects 
and Youth Internship Subprojects) 
 
(2) CNAs, CAAs and AEAs 

(3) Operating Costs 

(4) Training 

(5) Adult Education Subprojects: 
 

(a) AEAs 

 

(b) didactic and consumable 

  materials and consultants’ 
  services 
 
(6) Fees 
 
(7) Stipends under Youth Internship 
Subprojects 
 
(8) Front-end Fee 

 

 

 

 

-16- 

14,800,000 

4,500,000 

4,200,000 

2,400,000 

4,000,000 

58,000,000 

43,000,000 

0 

0

(9) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

 

200,000,000

100% of the Unit Costs of the 
CNA Eligible Costs, the CAA 
Eligible Costs and the AEA 
Eligible Costs paid to the 
respective Executing Entity as per 
the terms of the Framework 
Agreements or the Implementation 
Agreements as the case may be 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
 

100% of the Unit Costs of the 
AEA Eligible Costs paid to the 
respective Adult Education Public 
Private Entity as per the terms of 
the Implementation Agreements 
 
100% 

100% 

100% 
 

Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
 
Amount due under Section 2.08 
(c) of this Agreement 

-17- 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B. 

1. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent expenditures 
of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  the  Technical  Units  in  Project  implementation 
(excluding  salaries)  such as  consumable items,  utilities  and  supplies,  and  travel 
costs for supervision in the field, which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project; 

the  term  “Training”  means  expenditures  incurred  by  Ministry  of  Labor  and  the 
Participating  Provinces  to  finance  reasonable  transportation  costs  and  per-diem 
of trainees and trainers (if applicable), rental of training facilities, materials and 
equipment under the Project; and 

the  term  “Fees”  means  the  fees  paid:  (i)  in  the  fixed  amounts  specified  in  the 
Operational Manual for training, assessments and certifications under Part A.3 of 
the  Project;  (ii)  for  certification  of  IFPs  under  Part  A.2  (c)  of  the  Project  and 
accreditation of Certification Organizations under Part A.1 (c) of the Project, in 
the amounts regularly charged by the  agencies providing such certifications and 
accreditations; and (iii) in the fixed amounts specified in the Operational Manual 
for on the job and classroom training under Youth Employment Subprojects (Part 
C.3 (a) of the Project), and under Part C.2 (c) of the Project. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $40,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for 
payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but on or 
after February 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures; or 

under  Category  (7)  for  Stipends  unless  the  Borrower  shall  have  issued,  and  the 
Bank  shall  have  approved,  the  specific  requirements  for  implementation  of  the 
Youth Internship Subprojects. 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 

2. 
 
Section V.

Other Undertakings

Without  limitation to  the  provisions  of  Section  II  of  Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement, the 
Borrower shall contract, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: 

(a) 

not later than twelve months from the Effective Date, and in the event that results 
of such first special audit show that the systems applications pose, in the Bank’s 
opinion,  substantial  risk  to  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  within  twelve 
months thereafter, a second special audit of the Ministry of Labor’s management 
information systems, including, inter alia:

(i) 

a professional opinion on the reliability of the information processes and 
the  level  of  control  of  the  system  and  the  risks  associated  with  the 

-18- 

 

 

 

information technology processes of the Ministry of Labor associated to 
the internal control of the monitoring of Project activities; and 

recommendations on any measures which would be required to ensure an 
acceptable level of reliability of such information system; and 

(b) 

not  later  than  June  30  and  December  31  of  each  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower  a 
special audit on: 

the  requests  for  payments  and  the  financial  reporting  sent  by  Sector 
Organizations,  Participating  Provinces  and  Participating  Municipalities 
and  covering  all  activities  to  be  executed  by  such  Executing  Entities 
according to the Protocols; 

the reliability of the quantity of outputs delivered; and 

the  reliability  of 
information. 

the 

internal  control  framework  and  reporting 

 
(ii) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 
 
(iii) 

-19- 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each January 1 and July 1 
 

Beginning July 1, 2012  
through January 1, 2022 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

 

5% 
 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 

 

 

 

 

-20- 

 

4. 

 
5. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

-21- 

APPENDIX 

Section I.

Definitions

“A$” means Argentine pesos, the Borrower’s currency. 

“Accreditation Institution” means IRAM, CECAM or any other accreditation institution 
eligible to participate in the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual. 

“Adult Education Activity” or “AEA” means any activity referred to in Part B.1 (d) of the 
Project which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan under Categories 
(2) or (5) (a) of the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in accordance 
with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“Adult Education Public/Private Entity” means an association, trade union, civil society 
organizations,  or  other  private  entity  that  meets  the  requirements  of  the  Operational 
Manual to participate in Part B.2 of the Project. 

“Adult Education Subproject” means a Subproject to be carried out under Part B.2 of the 
Project which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“AEA  Eligible  Cost”  means  operating  costs  (teachers’  salaries)  and  materials  and 
supplies of an AEA eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost 
basis in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“Assessment Center”  means an individual or public or private organization, authorized 
by the Certification Organization of the relevant sector to carry out, in its name and as 
designated  by  it,  activities  for  the  design  of  instruments,  collection  of  evidence  and 
evaluation of competencies according to competency-based occupational standards. 

“CAA  Eligible  Cost”  means  consultants’  services  and  operating  costs  (per  diem  and 
materials related to attendance of workshops) of a CAA eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  on  a  Unit  Cost  basis  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Operational Manual. 

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“CECAM” means the Quality and Modernization Center of the Argentine Federation of 
Municipalities. 

“Certification Organization” means an organization legally established in the Borrower’s 
territory  with  powers  to  provide  certificates  of  competencies  to  individuals  and/or  to 
accredit  assessment  centers  which  measure  the  skill  levels  attained  by  individuals  in  a 
competency. 

-22- 

“CNA” or “Competency Normalization Activity” means any activity referred to in Part 
A.1 (a) of the Project which is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“CNA  Eligible  Cost”  means  consultants’  services  and  operating  costs  (per  diem  and 
materials related to attendance of workshops) of a CNA eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  on  a  Unit  Cost  basis  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Operational Manual. 

“CNA Key Sector” means a sector of the Borrower’s economy relevant to growth and the 
generation of formal employment selected by the Ministry of Labor. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Curricular Alignment Activity” or “CAA” means any activity referred to in Part A.2 of 
the Project that is eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost 
basis in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“Executing  Entity”  means  collectively  a  Participating  Province,  a  Participating 
Municipality,  a  Sector  Organization,  an  IFP,  an  IPPF  Entity,  a  Public/Private  Adult 
Education Entity, and an Internship Employer. 

“Framework Agreement” means any of the agreements, other than Protocols, referred to 
in Section I.5 (a), (c), (e) and (f)  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

the  “International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction  and 

“IFP”  means any training institute established and operating in the Borrower’s territory 
and eligible for participation in Part A.2 (a) of the Project. 

“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.5(b) 
and (d) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Indigenous  Peoples  Plan”  or  “IPP”  means  any  of  the  plans  prepared  and  carried  out 
following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework. 

“Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework”  or  “IPPF”  means  the  framework  for 
preparation of Indigenous Peoples Plans by the relevant IPPF Entities as set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 

“Internship  Employer”  means  an  employer  which  has  proposed  one  or  more  Youth 
Internship Subprojects which have been approved by the Ministry of Labor, through its 
Secretary  of  Employment,  according 
their 
to 
implementation  to  be  issued  by  the  Borrower  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  B.1(b)  of 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

the  specific 

requirements 

for 

 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

 

-23- 

“IPPF  Entity”  means:  (a)  the  Province  of  Tucumán,  Mendoza  and  any  other  that  is 
proposed  as  a  Participating  Province  in  the  future,  and  meets  the  requirements  of  the 
IPPF  to  be  deemed  an  IPPF  Entity;  (b)  a  Participating  Municipality  that  meets  the 
requirements  of  the  IPPF  to  be  deemed  an  IPPF  Entity;  and  (c)  an  Adult  Education 
Public/Private  Entity  which  participates  in  Part  B.2  of  the  Project  and  meets  the 
requirements of the IPPF to be deemed an IPPF Entity. 

“IRAM”    means  Instituto  Argentino  de  Normalización  y  Certificación, the  Borrower 
institute  for  standardization  and  certification,  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower’s 
Decree No. 121.430/1937. 

“Ministry  of  Labor”  means  Ministerio  del  Trabajo,  Empleo  y  Seguridad  Social, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security. 

“Model Framework Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in section I.4(e) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Model Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.4(e) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Municipality”  means  any  of  the  Borrower’s  political  subdivisions  established  and 
recognized as such by the respective Province. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual approved by the Bank on May 2, 2007, as the 
same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  by  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  the 
Bank. 

“Participating Municipality” means a Municipality eligible for participating in Part  C of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“Participating  Province”  means  any  Province  that  has  fulfilled  the  requirements  of  the 
Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate in Part B.1 of 
the Project. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May 
2, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Protocol” means any of the agreements to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of 
Section I.5(a)(i)(V), (c)(i)(II), (e)(i)(III) and (f)(i)(IV) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Province”  means  a  political  subdivision  of  the  Borrower  as  per  Title  Two  of  the 
Borrower’s  Constitution,  and  the  Autonomous  City  of  Buenos  Aires,  and  the  term 
“Provinces” means all of said political subdivisions. 

 

25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 
31. 

 
32. 

 
33. 

 
34. 

 
35. 

 
36. 

 
37. 

 

-24- 

“REGICE”  means  Registro  de  Instituciones  de  Capacitación  y  Empleo, the  Borrower’s 
register for training and employment institutions established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Resolution No. MTSS 578/96, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 26, 
1996. 

“Sector Organization” means a trade union, business association or other association with 
juridical  personality  representing  business  and/or  workers,  that  has  fulfilled  the 
requirements of this Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate 
in  Part  A  of  the  Project,  including  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  financial  management 
capacity of such Sector organization. 

“Stipend” means a stipend paid by the Ministry of Labor through a debit card under Part 
C.3  of  the  Project  and  not  exceeding,  unless otherwise  agreed by  the  Bank,  A$200  per 
Youth. 

“TCU” means the technical coordination unit to be established by the Borrower pursuant 
to Section I.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   

“Technical Unit” means the unit to be established by Sector Organizations for purposes 
of assisting in the implementation of CNAs and CAAs. 

“Unit Cost” means the unit cost on which a CNA Eligible Cost, a CAA Eligible Cost and 
an  AEA  Eligible  Cost  is  based,  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  as  such  Unit  Cost 
may be modified in agreement with the Bank. 

“Youth” means any individual between 18 and 24 years of age. 

“Youth Internship Subproject” means an internship for Youth, identified by an Internship 
Employer following the requirements of the Operational Manual, which is selected and 
eligible for financing in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

 

38. 

 
39. 

 
40. 

 
41. 

 
42. 

 
43. 

 
44. 
 
45. 

 

