CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7483-PAN 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Additional Loan for the Second Basic Education Project)

REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

Dated October 26, 2007

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT BANK 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7483-PAN 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 

PANAMA 

(“Borrower”) 

Agreement  dated  October  26,  2007,  (the  Agreement)  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC 
OF 
FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing a 
Loan  (the  Loan)  to  assist  in  financing  the  continuation  of  the  activities  related  to  the 
Original Project set forth in the Original Loan Agreement (all as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

INTERNATIONAL 

BANK 

and 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions,  the 
Appendix to this Agreement or the Original Loan Agreement. 

ARTICLE II —    LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000) as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to 
assist  in  financing  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement 
(“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread,  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 

2

continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

 

 

 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph (a)  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement  and  unless  otherwise  notified  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each  Interest  Period  shall  be  changed  from  the  initial  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project  as  a 

continuation of the Original Project.  To this end, the Borrower shall: 

(a) 
 
(b) 

 
(c) 

carry out Parts A.1, A.3, B and C of the Project through MEDUCA; 

carry out Part A.4 of the Project through MEDUCA with the assistance 
of the Construction Implementing Entities; and  

shall cause IFARHU to carry out Part A.2 of the Project, 

3

all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.  
 

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
agreement  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  (the  IFARHU  Agreement),  entered  into 
between IFARHU and MEDUCA, acting on behalf of the Borrower, shall have 
been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect 
materially and adversely the ability of IFARHU to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project. 

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  in  respect  of  any 
provision of the IFARHU  Agreement and is continuing for a period of 60 days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Agreement, but in 
 
no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on February 4, 2008. 
 

 
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
 
Facsímile:  

(507) 507-7200 

 

 

 

 

4

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable:   

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

 

INDEVAS 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423 (MCI)   

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States of  America,  as  of  the  day 

and year first above written. 

 

REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 

By /s/ Federico Humbert 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Jane Armitage 

Authorized Representative 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

The  Project  consists  entirely  of  the  Original  Project  which  maintains  as  its 
objectives to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of Basic Education in the territory of 
the  Borrower  and,  in  particular,  to  improve  equity  of  access  to  Basic  Education;  (b) 
expand  the  coverage  of  Pre-school  Education  through  community-based,  non-formal 
education  models;  and  (c)  strengthen  the  planning,  supervision  and  policy-making 
capacity of MEDUCA. 
 

The  Project  consists  of  all  the  parts  previously  set  forth  in  the  Original  Loan 

Agreement. 

5

 

6

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

The  Borrower, 
institutional 
through  MEDUCA,  shall  maintain  all 
arrangements  set  forth  in  the  Original  Project,  including  the  operation  of  a 
Project coordination unit in MEDUCA, under the terms and conditions set forth 
 
in the Original Loan Agreement.   

the 

Implementation Agreements 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MEDUCA,  continue  to  carry  out  and 
maintain,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  all  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the 
IFARHU Agreement. 

The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  exercise  its  rights  under  the  IFARHU 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.  Except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not thenceforward assign, 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the IFARHU Agreement or any 
of its provisions. 

The Borrower shall maintain all the arrangements of the Original Project 
relating  to  the  obligations  of  selected  Construction  Implementing 
Entities, acceptable to the Bank and those of MEDUCA, all as set forth 
in the relevant Construction Implementation Agreements. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  for  relevant  new  activities  related  to 
implementing  the  continuation  of  the  Project  under  this  Loan,  the 
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  Construction  Implementation  Agreements  
acceptable  to  the  Bank  shall  be  entered  into  between  MEDUCA  and 
selected Construction Implementing Entities. 

its  rights  under  each 
The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  exercise 
Construction Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not thenceforward assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Construction Implementation Agreements or any of their provisions. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 

1. 

 

 

2. 

(a) 
 
 

(b) 
 
 
 
 
 

(a) 
 
 
 

(b) 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) 
 
 
 
 
 

 

7

The Borrower shall maintain, through MEDUCA, all arrangements pertaining to 
the  operation  of  the  PCU  and  the  Project  Management  Committee,  as  are  set 
forth in the Original Loan Agreement. 

Implementation Documents 

The  Borrower  has  adopted,  and  shall  comply  with,  throughout  Project 
implementation, an operational manual dated February 16, 2002 and amended as 
of April 30, 2007, satisfactory to the Bank and consisting of different schedules 
setting  forth,  respectively,  rules,  methods,  guidelines,  specific  development 
plans, standard documents and procedures to be maintained in use for the further 
carrying out of the Project.  

In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any 
one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time in consultation 
with, and after approval of, the Bank. 

Other Implementation Arrangements 

shall, 

through  MEDUCA,  each  year  during  Project 
The  Borrower 
implementation, continue to furnish to the Bank under the terms and conditions 
specified for the Original Project, annual procurement audit reports in respect of 
the Loan. 

The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, under the terms and conditions specified 
for the Original Project, continue to provide evidence to the Bank that sufficient 
resources  are  allocated  yearly  in  its  draft  budget  law  to  cover  the  entire 
counterpart funding requirements of the Project for the year in question. 

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Safeguards 

The  Borrower,  through  MEDUCA,  shall  ensure  that  the  provisions  addressing 
indigenous peoples concerns in the implementation of the Project as set forth in 
the Operational Manual continue to be carried out as agreed with the Bank.  

3. 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
D. 
 
1

 
2. 

 
E. 

F. 

 
 

 

8

Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 

Project Reports 

 

 

A. 
 
1. 

2. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

The Borrower, through MEDUCA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports as set forth in the Original Loan Agreement. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of the Original Loan Agreement, for purposes of 
Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  a  single  combined  report  on  the 
execution of the Project under the Original Loan Agreement and under the Loan 
Agreement  and  all  related  plans  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2009. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MEDUCA,  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MEDUCA, prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim 
unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MEDUCA,  have  its  Financial  Statements  for  the 
Project  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the 
General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant  Services.      All  goods,  works  and  Non-
Consultant  Services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the 
provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 

 
3. 

 
B. 

 
1. 

 

 

 

 
2.

9

the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant 
Services 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods,  works  and  Non-Consultant  Services  shall  be  procured  under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and subject 
to the following special provisions: 

prior  registration,  obtaining  a  license  or  an  authorization  shall  not  be  a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures; 

no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 

the  invitation  to  bid  shall  not  establish,  for  purposes  of  acceptance  of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  

the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid.  

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and 
Non-Consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Methods
(a)  National Competitive Bidding (NCB)  subject to the following  
 

provisions: 

be used; 

(i)   standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should 
 
 
(ii)   foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  required  to  be  registered  with  local 
 

authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(d) 

 

 

10

Procurement Methods

be made at the time of bid opening; 

bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 

(iii)  no bids or proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall 
 
 
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
 
(v)   the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-
 
 
(vi)  potential  bidders  shall  be  allowed  adequate  time  to  prepare  bids 
  which  should  not  be  less  than  30  days,  except  for  commodities  and 
 
 

contracts for small goods and Non-Consultant Services. 

bid meeting as a condition to bid; and 

(b)  Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 

(i)   foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local  
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
 
 
(ii)   a  minimum  of  three  quotations  shall  be  obtained  as  a  condition  to 
 

award the contract. 

 

(c)  Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior written consent. 
 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Single-Source Selection 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

11

 

3.
 

 

(a) 
 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Special provisions. All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
carried out subject to the following special provisions: 

foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 

foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by  a  local  authority  about  their  legal  capacity  or  tax  status  for  the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 

foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  submit  their  proposals  in 
person. 

 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

D. 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

General 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the    Loan  in accordance  with the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  additional  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures 
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:  

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

12

 

Category

Amount  
of the Loan  
(expressed in Dollars)

Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be Financed

(1) Works, goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, consultant services and 
Training  for Part 1 of the Project 
(Improvement of Quality and 
Efficiency of Basic Education) 

(2)  Works, Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services,  Consultant  Services  and 
Training  for Part 2:  of the Project 
(Expansion  of  Non-Formal  Pre-
School Education Program) 
 

(3)  (a) Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, Consultant Services, 
Training  for Part 3  of the Project 
(Institutional Strengthening) 
 

(b) Operating Costs for Part 3.3 of 
the Project (supervision, 
administration and audit of the 
Project) 
 

 

TOTAL  

 

 

 

 

 

1,935,679 

100% 

2,317,009 

100% 

534,790 

100% 

212,522 

100% 

 
5,000,000

B. 
 
1. 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

from the  Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of 
the Front-end Fee  referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 

2. 

The Closing Date is December 30, 2008. 

13

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 

1. 

 

 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the   
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn   Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 

Beginning November 15, 2009 
through May 15, 2017 

 

6.25% 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 

14

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn   Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

 

15

APPENDIX 

Section I. 

Definitions 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 17, 2007). 

“MEDUCA”  means  Ministerio  de  Educación, the  Ministry  of  Education  of  the 
Borrower, formerly referred to as MIEDUC in the Original Loan Agreement. 

“Non-Consultant Services” means, in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the 
table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Loan  Agreement,  the  services 
contracted in connection with the carrying out of activities related to the printing 
and production of educational and training materials. 

“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in operational, 
maintenance (including maintenance of vehicles and PCU computer equipment), 
travel  and  per  diem  costs  for  PCU  staff,  and  administrative  costs  (including 
employment  of  administrative  PCU  staff)  that  would  not  have  been  incurred 
absent the Project; 

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Borrower and 
the  Bank, for  a  Second  Basic  Education  Project,  dated  January  24,  2001,  as 
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7032-PAN). 

“Original  Project”  means  the  Project  first  described  in  the  Original  Loan 
Agreement and set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

10. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

16

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
signed  and  dated  July  03,  2007  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs 

“Training” means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with 
the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including travel costs and 
per diem of trainees, study tours, rental of facilities and equipment, and training 
materials; but excluding consultant fees. 

11. 

12. 

 

