CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7439-PAN 

Loan Agreement 

 
(Rural Productivity Project) 
 

REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated May 11, 2007  

LOAN NUMBER 7439-PAN 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  May  11,  2007,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  PANAMA 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  thirty  nine  million  four  hundred 
thousand Dollars ($39,400,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.08  of  this  Agreement (“Loan”),  to  assist in financing  the  project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. In the event that the Borrower selects 
not to capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread,  subject  to  any 

2

waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 

 
2.06.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph (a)  of  Section  2.08  of  this 
Agreement  and  unless  otherwise  notified  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each  Interest  Period  shall  be  changed  from  the  initial  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed 
Rate  for  the  full  maturity  of  such  amount  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.  To  this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts  1,  Part  2  and  4  of  the  Project  through 
MIDA and shall cause Part 3 of the Project to be carried out by ANAM, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 

3

 

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

(b) 

ANAM’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ANAM 
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 

The  agreement  dated  June  23,  2006  between  the  Bank  acting  as  an 
Implementing  Agency  of  the  Global  Environment  Facility  and  the 
Borrower  (“GEF  Grant  Agreement”)  has  been  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower and ANAM, acting 
thereunder as the implementing agency of the Borrower and the recipient 
of  grant  proceeds  from  the  GEF  Grant  Agreement,  to  perform  any  of 
their respective obligations under the GEF Grant Agreement. 

 
4.02.  The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any 
of  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  Section  4.01  of  this 
Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of  60  days  after  notice  of  the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V— EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and 
ANAM. 

 
5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
ANAM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANAM in accordance with 
its terms. 

 
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which 
expire on September 22, 2008. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 

4

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsimile: 
 
 

 

 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

(507) 507-7200 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Panama City, Panama, as of the day and year first above written. 

5

REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 

By /s/ Héctor E. Alexander H. 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Pamela Cox 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  contribute  to  increased  productivity  among 
the  Borrower’s  territory  through  their 
organized  rural  small-scale  producers  of
participation  in  productive  alliances,  while  ensuring  the  sustainable  use  of  natural 
resources and the conservation of globally important biodiversity.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:  Support for Productive Alliances

1.1. 

 
1.2. 

Provision  of  support  for  the  carrying  out  of  all  preparatory  activities  that 
contribute  to  the  presentation  by  RPAs  of  viable  business  plans  for  proposed 
productive alliances.  

Provision  of  technical  advisory  services  to  RPAs  in  connection  with  the 
preparation  and  the  implementation  of  the  Project  and  the  execution  of  RPAs’ 
approved business plans. 

 
Part 2:  Productive Alliances

The  provision  of  Productive  Grants  to  RPAs  for  the  implementation  of  selected 
Productive Subprojects prepared in the context of business plans for productive alliances 
between RPAs and at least one agroprocessor, wholesaler or other commercial partner, to 
be carried out in the Borrower’s provinces of Herrera, Los Santos and Veraguas.

Part 3:  Environmental Subprojects and Strengthening of NPAS

The  provision  of:  (a)  Environmental  Grants  to  CBOs  for  the  carrying  out  of 
Environmental Subprojects in environmental resources; (b) support for the management 
of natural resources and the strengthening of NPAS; and (c) support for the monitoring, 
evaluation and management of this Part 3 of the Project by ANAM. 
 
Part 4:  Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 

The  provision  of  support  for  the  implementation  of  the  Project  by  MIDA  and  the 
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system in relation thereto. 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The Borrower shall:  

(a) 

Maintain in MIDA, throughout Project implementation, personnel:  

(i) 

(ii) 

adequate  in  numbers  and  with  functions  and  resources  at  all 
times  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  including  a  coordinator,  a 
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist, all 
to be selected in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule; and 

responsible for the effective coordination of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of 
the Project, including procurement, financial management, audit, 
and  monitoring  and  evaluation  and  all  technical  aspects  in 
relation thereto. 

 (b) 

Ensure that MIDA submits Project annual operating plans and budgets to 
the Bank for its review and approval. 

The Borrower shall establish for purposes of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of the Project, and 
maintain  throughout  Project  implementation,  a  steering  committee  responsible 
for Project oversight and coordination, as set forth in the Operational Manual and 
which duties shall include:  

the approval of Project annual operating plans; 

overseeing Project performance; and  

suggesting  necessary  adjustments  to  Project  implementation  based  on 
results of the Project monitoring and evaluation system.  

Subsidiary Agreement 

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  Part  3  of  the  Project  by  ANAM,  the  Borrower 
shall  make  part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  ANAM  under  a 
subsidiary  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  ANAM,  under  terms  and 

2. 

 

 

 
B. 
 
1. 

(a) 
 
(b) 

(c) 

8

 

 

 
2. 

conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”), which shall include 
the following:  

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

the  commitment  by  ANAM  to  carry  out  the  execution  of  Part  3  of  the 
Project  with  staff  having,  at  all  times  during  Project  implementation, 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 

the requirement that ANAM shall  carry out the action plan agreed with 
the  Bank,  dated  August  18,  2006,  as  amended  through  to  January  24, 
2007,  to  strengthen  its  financial  management  capacity  for  the  Project; 
and 

the  requirement  that  ANAM  shall  carry  out  Part  3  of  the  Project  in 
accordance with the OM adopted by ANAM. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such 
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 

C. 

Implementation Documents 

1. 

(a)  

The Borrower has, through MIDA, adopted a Project operational 
manual dated January 31, 2007 and has caused ANAM to adopt 
a Project  operational  manual  dated  April  24,  2006,  both 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  therein  setting  forth  rules,  methods, 
guidelines,  standard  documents  and  procedures  for  the  carrying 
out of the Project, including the following: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(A)  the  detailed  description  of  Project  implementation 
activities, their sequencing and the prospective timetable 
and benchmarks in relation thereto; and (B) the detailed 
institutional arrangements in respect thereof;  

administrative, 

the  Project 
auditing, 
reporting,  financial,  procurement  and  disbursement 
procedures,  including  all  pertinent  standard  documents 
and model contracts in relation thereto;  

accounting, 

the  criteria  for:  (A)  the  eligibility  of  RPAs  and  CBOs; 
(B)  the  selection,  approval,  implementation,  monitoring 
and  evaluation  of  the  Productive  Subprojects  and  the 
Environmental Subprojects; (C) the terms and conditions 
for the Productive Grants and the Environmental Grants, 

 

 

 

9

inter  alia,

the  arrangements 

including, 
the 
management  of  funds  disbursed  for  the  implementation 
of the Productive Subprojects; and (D) the model forms 
for 
the 
the  Productive  Grant  Agreements  and 
Environmental Grant Agreements; 

for 

the  Environmental  Management  Framework,  the  RPF 
and the IPP for the Project; 

the plan for the training and capacity building activities 
under the Project;  

the  plan  for  the  monitoring  and  supervision  of  the 
Project,  including  all  environmental,  macroeconomic 
and social aspects in relation thereto; and 

 

(iv) 

 
(v) 

(vi) 

 
(vii) 

the performance indicators for the Project. 

(b) 

 
The Borrower shall, through MIDA, and shall cause ANAM to, carry out 
the Project in accordance with the respective OMs. 

 
In the event that any provision of an OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

An OM  may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Anti-Corruption 

Subprojects 

The Borrower shall: (a) through MIDA, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with an eligible RPA; and (b) cause ANAM to enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with an eligible CBO, therein setting forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, notably with respect to the preparation and 
implementation of the Productive Subproject and the Environmental Subproject, 
respectively. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MIDA,  make  a  Productive  Grant  to  an  RPA  and, 
shall  cause  ANAM  to  make  an  Environmental  Grant  to  a  CBO,  both  in 
accordance  with  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures,  all  as  set  forth  in  the 
respective OMs and which shall include the following: 

2. 

 
3. 

 
D. 

 

E. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 

 

10

Subject to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (c) (i)  hereunder,  the  Productive 
Grants from MIDA to RPAs and the Environmental Grants from ANAM 
to CBOs shall be made on a non-reimbursable basis to either MIDA or 
ANAM. 

(i)  The  Productive  Grants  shall  be  made  to  RPAs  to  increase  rural 
productivity in the context of productive alliances between RPAs and at 
least one agroprocessor, wholesaler or other commercial partner; and (ii) 
the Environmental Grants shall be made between ANAM and a CBO for 
small-scale investments in natural resource management and productive 
opportunities.  

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MIDA,  and  shall  cause  ANAM  to,  obtain 
rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of  the  Bank,  including 
the right to: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 
 

suspend or terminate the right of an RPA and a CBO to use the 
proceeds  of  a  Productive  Grant  or  an  Environmental  Grant 
respectively, or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount 
of  a  Productive  Grant  or  an  Environmental  Grant 
then 
withdrawn,  upon  the  RPA’s  and  the  CBO’s  failure  to  perform 
any  of  their  obligations  under  the  Productive  Grant  Agreement 
and the Environmental Grant Agreement concerned; and  

require each RPA and CBO to:  

(A) 

(B) 

 
(C) 

 
(D) 

economic, 

the  relevant  Productive  Subproject  and 
carry  out 
Environmental  Subproject 
respectively  with  due 
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound 
managerial, 
technical, 
environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  ,  including  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of 
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines 
applicable  to  recipients  of  loan  proceeds  other  than  the 
Borrower;  

financial, 

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the resources required for 
the purpose;  

procure the goods, works and services to be financed out 
of the Productive Grant and the Environmental Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;  

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor  and  evaluate  in  accordance  with  indicators 

11

acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of  the  Productive 
Subproject  and  the  Environmental  Subproject  and  the 
achievement of their objectives; 

(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial  statements  in  accordance  with  consistently 
applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank, 
both  in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations, 
resources  and  expenditures  related  to  the  relevant  
Productive  Subproject  and  Environmental  Subproject; 
and  (2)  at  the  Bank’s  or  the  Borrower’s  request,  have 
such  financial  statements  audited  by 
independent 
auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited 
to the Borrower and the Bank; 

enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the relevant 
Productive  Sub-project 
the  Environmental 
Subproject,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and 
documents; and  

and 

prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  all 
such  information  as  the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 

 

(E) 

 
(F) 

 
(G) 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MIDA,  exercise  its  rights  under  each  Productive 
Grant  Agreement,  and  cause  ANAM  to  exercise  its  rights  under  each 
Environmental Grant Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 

 

Safeguards 

The Borrower shall, through MIDA, and shall cause ANAM to, ensure that RPAs 
and  CBOs  carry  out  respectively 
the 
Environmental Subprojects, all in accordance with the Environment Management 
Framework, the RPF and the IPP prepared for the Project. 

the  Productive  Subprojects  and 

Other  Implementation Arrangements 

Not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, MIDA shall have carried out the 
action plan agreed with the Bank dated August 18, 2006 as amended through to 
January  24,  2007  for  the  strengthening  of  MIDA’s  financial  management 
capacity for the Project. 

3. 

 
F. 

G. 

1. 

 

2. 

 
3. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

12

Not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, ANAM shall have carried out the 
action plan agreed with the Bank dated January 23, 2007 for the strengthening of 
ANAM’s financial management capacity for the Project. 

Not later than 30 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause ANAM 
to select, in accordance with the provisions of Section  III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, 
and thereafter use throughout Project implementation for purposes of the Project, 
a pay agent acceptable to the Bank.

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MIDA,  and  shall  cause  ANAM  to,  monitor  and 
evaluate  the  progress  of  the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of 
one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one 
month after the end of the period covered by such report.  

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than July 31, 2013. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MIDA,  maintain  and  cause  ANAM  to  maintain  a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MIDA, prepare and furnish to the Bank in respect of Parts 1, 2 and 4 of 
the Project and shall cause ANAM to prepare and furnish to the Bank in respect 
of Part 3 of the Project, all not later than one month after the end of each calendar 
semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall: (a) through MIDA, have the Financial Statements for Parts 
1,  2  and  4  of  the  Project  audited;  and  (b)  cause  ANAM  to  have  the  financial 
statements for Part 3 of the Project audited, all in accordance with the provisions 
of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  said  Project 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower 
and  each  audit  of  the  financial  statements  for  Part  3  of  the  Project  by  ANAM 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of ANAM. The Project audited Financial 

13

Statements for each such period and the audited financial statements of ANAM 
shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end  of  such 
period.  

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 

 
1. 

2. 

 

Goods and Works and Non-Consultant Services.   All goods, works and Non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works  and  Non-
Consultant Services 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods,  works  and  Non-consultant  services  shall  be  procured  under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant 
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and 
Non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  using 
Standard Bidding Documents agreed with the Bank 
(b)  Shopping,  subject  to  using  Standard  Request  for 
Quotations agreed with the Bank 
(c)    Direct  Contracting,  subject  to  the  Bank’s  prior 
consent 

14

(d)    Commercial  Practices  for  Productive  Subprojects 
under  Part  2  of  the  Project,  as  further  set  forth  in  the 
relevant OM 
(e)  Community  Participation 
for  Environmental 
Subprojects  under  Part  3  of  the  Project  as  further  set 
forth in the relevant OM. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

Procurement Method

(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
 
(c) Selection based on consultants’ qualifications 
 
(d) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s prior written 

consent  

 
(e) Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s  Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

 
 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 

15

2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions)  to:  (a)  repay  the  Project  Preparation 
Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 (a) of the General Conditions; and (b) 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below . 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
2. 

 

Category

(1) Goods, Works, Non- Consultant 
Services, Training, Consultants’ Services 
and Operating Costs for Part 1 of the 
Project. 
 
(2) Goods, Works and Services for 
Productive Subprojects under Part 2 of the 
Project. 
 
(3) Goods, Works and Services for 
Environmental Subprojects under Part 3 
of the Project.  
 
(4) Goods, Works, Non- Consultant 
Services, Training, Consultants’ Services 
and Operating Costs for Part 3 of the 
Project. 
 
(5) Goods, Works, Non-Consultant 
Services, Training, Consultants’ Services 
and Operating Costs for Part 4 of the 
Project. 
(6)  Refund  of  the  Project  Preparation 
Advance 

 

 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)

Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be financed

6,400,000 

100% 

19,000,000 

100% 

6,000,000 

100% 

2,350,000 

100% 

3,350,000 

100% 

900,000 

Amount payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (a) 
of the General 
Conditions 
 

(7) Unallocated 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

1,400,000 

 

39,400,000

16

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

from  the  Loan  Account  (other  than  to  repay  the  Project  Preparation 
Advance)  until  the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of  the  Front-end 
Fee;  

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million Dollars 
($1,000,000) may be made for payments for Eligible Expenditures made 
between January 31, 2007 and prior to the date of this Agreement; or 

under Categories (2) and (3) in the table of paragraph 1 above, unless: (i) 
a Productive  Grant  Agreement  for  the  carrying  out  of  a  Productive 
Subproject and including adequate environmental mitigation measures in 
relation with its implementation, shall have been entered into between an 
RPA  and  MIDA  and;  (ii)  an  Environmental  Grant  Agreement  for  the 
carrying  out  of  an  Environmental  Subproject  and  including  adequate 
environmental mitigations measures in relation with its implementation, 
shall have been entered into between a CBO and ANAM, all the above in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures, terms and conditions set forth in 
the relevant OMs. 

The Closing Date is January 31, 2013. 

B. 
 
1. 
 
 

 

2. 
 

17

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each  April 15 and October 15: 

 

Beginning April 15, 2012  
Through October 15, 2021 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

 
 
5% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

 
1. 

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

18

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

 

19

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“ANAM”  means  Autoridad  Nacional  del  Ambiente, the  Borrower’s  National 
Environment Authority, established by the Borrower’s Ley no. 41 dated July 1, 
1998. 

“ANAM’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Ley no. 41 dated July 1, 1998.  

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“CBO”  means  a  community-based  organization,  including  a  rural  producer 
organization, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower and 
which, upon meeting all criteria set forth in the OM, is determined to be eligible 
to  receive  an  Environmental  Grant  for  the  carrying  out  of  an  Environmental 
Subproject under the Project. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Environmental Grant” means a transfer of resources proposed to be made out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a CBO under Part 3 of the Project. 

“Environmental  Grant  Agreement”  means  an  agreement  between  ANAM  and  a 
CBO as referred to in section I.E.1 (ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Environmental Management Framework” means the Borrower’s framework for 
the management of social and environmental aspects of the Project dated January 
19, 2007 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith, as may be amended 
from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 

“Environmental  Subproject”  means  a  specific  investment  in  natural  resources 
management that is proposed to be financed under Part 3 of the Project. 

“Fiduciary Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
ANAM and an agent pursuant to Section I.G.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time. 

2. 
 
3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 

20

12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 
 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 15, 2006). 

“IPP”  means  the  Borrower’s  Indigenous  People’s  Plan  for  the  Project  dated 
January 19, 2007 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith.  

“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 

“MIDA” means Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario, the Borrower’s ministry 
of agricultural development. 

“Non-consultant services” means in  respect of Categories (1), (4) and (5) in the 
table  of  Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  services  to  be 
contracted  for  the  carrying  out  of  activities  related  to  logistic  expenses  for 
training and printing and reproduction of training materials. 

“NPAS”  means,  the  Borrower’s  National  Protected  Areas  System  or  Sistema 
Nacional de Áreas Protegidas, established pursuant to Ley 41 of the Borrower, 
dated July 1, 1998, as described and regulated in ANAM Resolution No. JD-09-
94 of June 29, 1994 as amended to date. 

“Operating costs” means in respect of Categories (1), (4) and (5) in the table of 
Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  the  incremental  expenses 
incurred  on  account  of  Project  implementation,  including  office  equipment  and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
office  administration  costs,  utilities,  travel,  per  diem  and  supervision  costs  and 
salaries of locally contracted employees.  

“OM” and “Operational Manual” mean a manual for Project implementation as 
referred to in Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project 
signed  and  dated  January  31,  2007,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 

“Productive Grant” means a transfer of resources proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  to  an  RPA  under  Part  2  of  the  Project,  subject  to  the 

21

specific  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  OM  and  the  relevant  Productive 
Grant Agreement between MIDA and the RPA concerned. 

“Productive Grant Agreement” means an agreement between MIDA and an RPA 
as referred to in Section I.E.1 (i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Productive  Subproject”  means  a  specific  income  enhancing  set  of  activities  to 
be carried out by a RPA utilizing the proceeds of a Productive Grant made under 
Part 2 of the Project. 

“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) 
of the General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the 
letter  agreement  signed  on  behalf  of  the  Bank  on  December  28,  2005  and  on 
behalf of the Borrower on February 14, 2006. 

“Protected  Areas”  means  collectively 
the  Borrower’s  biodiversity  areas 
(including  buffer  zones)  as  established  under  article  66  of  Ley  no.41  of  the 
Borrower dated July 1, 1998. 

“RPA”  means  Rural  Producer  Association, a group  of  rural  citizens  organized 
into a legally-constituted civil association for the common interest of improving 
their  productivity,  competitiveness  and  market  orientation  and  which,  upon 
meeting  all  criteria  set  forth  in  the  OM,  is  found  eligible  under  the  Project  to 
receive  a  Productive  Grant  on  behalf  of  its  members  for  the  carrying  out  of  a 
Productive Subproject. 

“RPF” mean Resettlement Policy Framework, the Borrower’s process framework 
for  persons  to  be  potentially  displaced  on  account  of  Project  implementation 
dated January 19, 2007 and disclosed to the public on even date therewith.  

“Subsidiary  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Loan available to ANAM. 

“Training” means in respect of Categories (1), (4) and (5) in the table of Section 
IV.A(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their 
training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training 
facility  rentals;  and  (iv)  training  material  preparation,  acquisition,  reproduction 
and  distribution  expenses  not  otherwise  covered  under  said  Section  IV.A(2)  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 

22

 
Manju Ghumman 
M:\PANAMA\Projects\1030-Rural productivity\Execution Version of LA.doc 
05/14/2007 

3:24:00 

PM

 

