CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7592-MX 
 

Loan Agreement 

 
(Savings and Rural Finance Second Phase Project) 
Second Additional Financing  
 
 
between 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated November 21, 2008  

 

LOAN NUMBER 7592-ME 

 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  November  21,  2008,  between  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES 
its  SHCP  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 

 
(“Borrower”)  represented  by 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 

Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as 
set forth in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the 
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), shall be used in conformity with the 
requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of 
this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:   
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions  or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is  the  Director  General  of  BANSEFI,  or  the  Director  General  Adjunto 
de Banca Institucional  of BANSEFI or any person or persons whom they shall 
jointly designate in writing. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 

- 2 - 

 

 

upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined  in accordance with  the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, at any time, request any 
of  the  following  Conversions  of  the  terms  of  the  Loan  in  order  to 
facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

- 3 - 

 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.   To  this 
end, the  Borrower  shall  cause  BANSEFI  to  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that any of 
the events of suspension referred to in Article V of the Original Loan Agreement 
has occurred. 

 
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period  of  60  days  after  notice  of  the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the 
Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Mandato Contract has been modified in a manner acceptable to the Bank so 
as to reflect changes in implementation arrangements under this Loan Agreement 
as compared to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 

5.02.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on March 9, 2010. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of 

SHCP. 

- 4 - 

6.02.  The  Borrower’s  Address  for  the  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of  the  General 

Conditions is: 

Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
Palacio Nacional 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 

 

Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

- 5 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  strengthening  the  SCI 
sector with SCIs which are compliant with the Popular Savings and Credit Law, financially 
viable,  operationally  effective,  managerially  sound,  technologically  upgraded,  and 
providing an enhanced level of outreach and access to financial services by the underserved 
Mexican populations.  

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 

the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 

Part A:  Strengthening SCIs and the Regulation and Supervision Thereof 

1. 
Provision  of  technical  assistance  to  about  375  individual  SCIs  requiring  further 
assistance to that provided under the Prior Loan, and to additional SCIs, as the case may be:  

(a) 

to carry out assessments of its financial and managerial condition so as to 
determine, inter alia, whether an SCI qualifies for authorization by CNBV to operate as an 
Entidad, whether an SCI requires technical assistance for its strengthening or restructuring 
in order to qualify for such authorization, or whether an SCI should be liquidated;  

(b) 

to  support  the  design  and  implementation  of  institutional  strengthening 

plans to allow SCIs to qualify for such authorization;  

(c) 

to, with respect to the SCIs additional to those assisted in the Prior Project 
with operations in the Expansion Project Area, if any, develop a financial services outreach 
and communications strategy focusing on the low-income populations within the said area; 
and  

(d) 

in support of liquidation of unviable SCIs. 

2. 
Provision  of technical assistance  to  individual  SCIs  requiring  further  assistance to 
that provided under the Prior Loan, to specifically develop strategies to deepen penetration 
and  expand  their  financial  services  outreach,  and  to  improve  their  effectiveness  and 
efficiency. 

Provision of technical assistance on aspects relating to the creation and functioning 

3. 
of the Deposit Protection Fund at the level of Federación and Confederación. 

 

- 6 - 

4. 
Provision  of  technical  assistance  to  assist  BANSEFI  in  the  management  and 
monitoring  of  the  assistance  provided  to  SCIs  by  consultants  in  particular  as  to  their 
classification  and  certification,  and  to  the  consistency  in  the  application  of  classification 
guidelines across individual SCIs by such consultants. 

5. 

Carrying out training and technical assistance programs for: 

(a) 

the  staff  of  SCIs,  focusing  on  the  areas  of  accounting  and  financial 
management, portfolio management, risk management, credit analysis, governance aspects, 
market analysis and understanding, and management of SCIs at the level of Federación; and 

(b) 
supervisory roles. 

staff of CNBV, BANSEFI and Federaciones to support their regulatory and 

Part B:  Developing a Technology Platform  

1. 
Provision of services to strengthen the technological capacity of BANSEFI and the 
SCIs  including,  inter  alia,  a  data  center,  and  virtual  private  network  services  for 
connectivity. 

2. 

Provision to the SCIs of:  

(a) 

an application package; 

banking; and 

the Bank. 

3. 

Provision of technical assistance: 

(b) 

data  warehouse,  enterprise  resource  planning  system,  and  internet-based 

(c) 

other technological developments proposed by BANSEFI and agreed to by 

(a) 

to manage and monitor the quality of the hardware and operational services 
referred  to  under  Part  B.1  of  the  Project,  and  the  application  software  and  other  items 
referred to in Part B. 2 of the Project; 

(b) 

to develop a strategy and an organizational plan for BANSEFI’s service of 

technology platform support; 

(c) 

to verify and validate the application software; and 

 

- 7 - 

(d) 

to  manage  and  monitor  implementation  of  the  technology  platform 

(developed under this Part B to the Project) in the SCIs. 

Part C:  Monitoring and Evaluation, Studies and Information Dissemination 

1. 
Improvement of the size and credibility of the annual household surveys carried out 
by  BANSEFI,  interpreting  the  data  collected  through  these  surveys,  and  ensuring  the 
consistency of the various datasets. 

Evaluation of the implementation performance and short-term outcomes of Parts A 

2. 
and B of the Project. 

3. 
Focusing  the  content  of  the  dissemination  campaign  carried  out  by  BANSEFI  to 
disseminate  information  on  the  SCIs  to  instill  confidence  in  their  clients,  to  market  the 
benefits  of  financial  intermediation,  and  to  disseminate  the  range  of  financial  products 
provided under the new technology platform referred to in Part B of the Project. 

4. 
Provision of technical assistance to develop new savings and financial products and 
services,  to  price  the  technology  platform  services,  and  to  carry  out  selected  studies, 
proposed  by  the  Borrower  and/or  BANSEFI,  and  approved  by  the  Bank,  on  subjects 
relevant to the SCI sector and to sustainable development in general. 

Carrying out workshops and seminars to disseminate the findings of the monitoring 

5. 
and evaluation outcomes and studies referred to in Part C of the Project. 

Part D: Project Management 

Establishment  and  operation  of  the  Core  Team,  including  training,  as  may  be 

required, for Project implementation. 

 

 

1. 

2. 

 
2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

- 8 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements. 

All implementation arrangements referred to in Article III and Schedule 6 of the 
Original Loan Agreement, shall apply for the execution of the Project.  

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,  the 
Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the  Project in accordance with the 
relevant Social Development Model, when applicable. 

The  Borrower  shall cause BANSEFI  to  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

B. 

Anti-Corruption 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BANSEFI  to  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section  5.09 
of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 

Procurement 

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

- 9 - 

for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the  Borrower.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  

Goods.    All  goods  (which  include  non-consultant  services)  required  for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I  of  the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2  below,  goods  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods.    The  following  table  specifies  the 
methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  which 
may  be  used  for  goods.   The  Procurement  Plan  shall specify  the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Limited International Bidding 
(d) Direct Contracting 

 

 
3. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 

- 10 - 

 

C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 
2. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2,  5.3  and  5.4  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

 
D. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  may,  or  may  cause  BANSEFI  to,  pursuant  to  the  Mandato 
Contract withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions 
as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  and/or  to  BANSEFI 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  and 
the Front-end Fee as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

General   

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 

- 11 - 

 

 
 
 
Category 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  Goods 
 
(2)  Consultant services 
 
(3)  Training   
 
(4)  Non-Consultants’ services 
 
(5) 
 
(6) 
 
 
 
(7) 
 
 
 
 
 

Front-end-Fee 
 
 

 
Incremental operating costs 

Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 

TOTAL 

 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars) 

% of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 

47% 

47% 

47% 

47% 

47% 

-0- 
 
 

Amount due under 
Section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement 

Amount due under 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement 

1,645,000 

7,750,000 

1,200,000 

24,600,000 

14,680,000 

125,000 
 
 
________ 
50,000,000 

 

3. 

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a) 

the term “non-consultants’ services” includes the cost of services relating 
to the development and operation of the technology platform, and other expenditures as 
appropriate, all included under Part A and Part B of the Project; 

(b) 

the term “incremental operating costs” includes: (i) reasonable recurrent 
expenditures incurred in connection with the execution of the Project (including the Core 
Team)  for  rentals,  travel,  room,  board  and  per  diem  expenditures,  maintenance, 
consumable materials and supplies and utilities (but not including any salaries); (ii) costs 
incurred  by  the  SCIs  for  adoption  of  the  technology  platform,  including  cost  for  data 
migration  incurred  at  the  SCIs;  and  technical  assistance  to  the  SCIs  (as  necessary);  all 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project; and 

 

- 12 - 

(c) 

the term “training” includes only: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per  diem  expenditures  incurred  by  trainees  in  connection  with  their  training;  (ii) 
reasonable  fees  charged  by  consultants  serving  as  trainers;  (iii)  reasonable  course  fees 
charged  by  academic  institutions;  (iv)  reasonable  training  facility  and  equipment  rental 
expenses; and (v) reasonable training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

B. 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
1. 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made within twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no case prior 
to  January  1,  2008,  for  Eligible  Expenditures.    Furthermore,  no  withdrawals  shall  be 
made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
End Fee referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
2. 

The Closing Date is July 31, 2012. 

 

- 13 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in  full  on  September  15, 
2023. 
 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

- 14 - 

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means 
the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

“Original  Loan  Agreement”  means  the  Loan  Agreement  dated  October  1, 2004 
(Loan Number 7240-ME), as amended on March 27, 2007 through the additional 
Loan Number 7438-ME for a loan in the amount of twenty nine million Dollars 
($29,000,000) between the Borrower and the Bank for the purposes of financing 
the Project. 

“Prior  Loan”  means  a  loan  in  the  amount  of  sixty  four  million  six  hundred 
thousand Dollars ($64,600,000), in terms of the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and the Bank on February 28, 2003. 

“Prior  Project”  means  a  project  in  support  of  the  Savings  and  Credit  Sector 
Strengthening  and  Rural  Microfinance  Capacity  Building  Technical  Assistance 
Project, which Project is financed with the Prior Loan. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  July  29,  2008  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“SCI” means a Mexican savings and credit institution which, independently of its 
corporative  or  other  organizational  form,  is  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the 

- 15 - 

Popular  Savings  and  Credit  Law,  and  any  other  financial  institution  agreed  to 
with the Bank. 

The  terms  “BANSEFI”,  “CNBV”,  “Confederación”,  “Core  Team”,  “Deposit 
Protection Fund”, “Entidad”, “Expansion Project Area”, “Federación”, “IPDP”, 
“Mandato  Contract”,  “Popular  Savings  and  Credit  Law”,  “SHCP”,  “Social 
Development  Model”  have  the  meaning  ascribed  to  them  in  the  Original  Loan 
Agreement. 

 
11. 

 

 

