CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 4882 UA 

 

 

between 
 

UKRAINE 
 

and 
 

Loan Agreement 

(Public Finance Modernization Project) 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated March 25, 2008 
 

LOAN NUMBER 4882 UA 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  March  25,  2008,  between  UKRAINE  (“Borrower”)  and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000) 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.03 
 
 
2.04 

 
2.05 
 
2.06 

The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent  (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

to  LIBOR  for 

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal 
the  Variable  Spread. 
the  Loan  Currency  plus 
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 

The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 

2

 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c) 

 

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
 

The  IWG  has  been  dissolved,  replaced,  or  removed,  or  its  powers  and 
duties have been altered to the extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, it 
can  no  longer  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the  Project,  without  the 
prior consent of the Bank; 

APST has been dissolved, replaced, or removed, or its powers and duties 
has been altered to the extent that, in the opinion of the Bank, it can no 
longer  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the  Project,  without  the  prior 
consent of the Bank; and 

The  PFMS  Modernization  Strategy  has  been  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived without prior consent of the Bank. 

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  

5.01 
 

the  Annual  Work  Plan  for  fiscal  year  2008  has  been  approved  by  the 
IWG;  

the Project Operations Manual has been approved by the MoF for Project 
implementation; and 

The  PFMS  Action  Plan  has  been  approved  by 
implementation of the PFMS Modernization Strategy. 

the  MoF  for 

 
5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

3

5.03.  Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties 
hereto  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  10.02  of  the  General 
Conditions.  Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending 
agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
Kyiv, 01008 
Ukraine 
 

 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

Telex:   

131450  

 

 

Facsimile: 

(380-44) 253 82 43 
(380-44) 207 05 08 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

4

UKRAINE 
 

 

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Viktor Pynzenyk 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

 
 

 

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Paul Bermingham 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  strengthen  public  financial  management  by 

improving operational efficiency and transparency.  
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part 1: Strengthening the Institutional Capacity and Operational Effectiveness 

Capacity building as well as the enhancement and optimization of the functions 
of  the  MoF,  KRU  and  the  STU  in  certain  areas,  including  but  not  limited  to:  (a) 
improvement of budget planning and mid-term budgeting; (b) methodological support for 
performance  based  budgeting  (c)  formulation  and  approval  of  state  and  local  budgets; 
and; (d) budget execution,  monitoring and financial reporting for state and local budgets; 
(e)  state  debt  management;  (f)  participation  in  management  of  international  financial 
assistance; and (g) public internal financial control. 
 
Part 2: Development of an Integrated PFMS

Integration  of  key  public  financial  management  functions in  order to  develop a 
single  centralized  information  system  which  serves  as  a  core  to  all  public  financial 
management processes, through: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

provision  of  goods  and  services  in  order  to  develop  information 
exchange mechanisms and automation of critical office services; 

provision  of  services  and  training  in  order  to  support  the  change 
management activities for effective use and sustainability, and to provide 
expertise  in  technical  project  management  and  technological  aspects  of 
contract management; and 

development  of  integrated  PFMS  software  and  installation  of  central 
servers  as  well  as  installation  of  the  PFMS field  hardware and network 
equipment, with a sufficient level of information security. 

 
Part 3: Project Management

Provision  of  support  to  the  MoF,  to  enhance  its  capacity  for  effective 
implementation  of  the  Project,  including,  inter  alia,  goods,  services  (including  audit), 
training and incremental operating costs, as necessary to provide such support. 

 

 

 

 

6

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
B. 
 

A. 
 
1. 

 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  IWG  during  Project  implementation,  which 
shall: (i) act as a body responsible for the strategic coordination and oversight of 
Project activities; (ii) review and approve the Annual Work Plan of the Project; 
and (iii) support its implementation. 

The  APST  shall  be  responsible  for  the  overall  Project  management,  including 
financial  and  procurement  management  and  other  Project-related  tasks,  in 
accordance with the Project Operations Manual. The APST shall be managed by 
and  report  to,  the  Project  Manager,  and  be  maintained  with  adequate  staff  in 
number, and with qualifications and experience, acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Bank. 

The Borrower shall take all actions required to ensure that the Project Operations 
Manual  is  applied  and  followed  at  all  times  in  the  implementation,  monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project.  

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, or as the Bank may otherwise deem it 
necessary  to  update  the  Project  Operations  Manual  to  reflect  and  support  a 
sustainable  evaluation  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  APST 
does not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Operations Manual or any 
provisions thereof. 

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 

provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Section II.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.  Each  Project 
Report shall cover the period of one year, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than two months after the end of the period covered by such report.  

7

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower  shall  implement,  by  no  later  than  June  30,  2008,  an  automated 
accounting  and  reporting  software  system  at  the  APST  to  support  Project 
accounting and automatically generate periodic financial reports. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  the  APST,  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through the APST, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports 
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

The Borrower, thorough the APST, shall: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

have  the  control  framework,  the  operational  processes  and  procedures 
followed under the Project, audited for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed  to  by  the  Bank)  in  accordance  with  terms  of  reference  and  by 
independent auditors both acceptable to the Bank; 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to 
by  the  Bank):  (A)  certified  copies  of  the  assessment  of  the  internal 
control framework, the operational processes and procedures referred to 
in  paragraph  (a)  above  for  such  year  (or  other  period  agreed  to  by  the 
Bank),  as  so  audited;  and  (B)  an  opinion  on  such  processes  and 
procedures by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank, 
as  to  whether  they  provide  the  Borrower  adequate  accounting,  internal 
control and financial reporting as intended for the Project; and 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  such  internal 
control  framework,  operational  processes  and  procedures,  and  the  audit 
framework,  operational  processes  and 
of  such 
procedures, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to 
time reasonably request. 

internal  control 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

5. 
 

 

 

 

8

Section III.

Procurement

General 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

Goods.   All goods required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods. The  following  table  specifies  the 
methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  which 
may  be  used  for  goods.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

9

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following: 
 

Procurement Method 

(i)  Eligibility

 

 

 

 

Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall 
not be excluded from the national competitive bidding process 
irrespective of the contract value. 

(ii)  Procedures

(A) 

“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  

(B) 

Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the at least one (1) 
nationally circulated daily newspaper of the Borrower allowing 
a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids.  

(C) 

Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  

(iii) Pre-qualification

system.  

(A)     Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 

(B)      Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements 
shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  

 

(iv) Participation by Government-owned Enterprises

(A) 

Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish 
that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.   

 

(B) 

Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 

 

(v)  Bidding Documents

(A) 

The Borrower shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample bidding 
documents, including pre-qualification documents, for the 
procurement of goods or technical services (other than 

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consultants’ services), all acceptable to the Bank.  

 

(B) 

Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 

(vi) Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation

(A) 

(B) 

(A) 

(B) 

Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  

Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 

(C) 

No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 

(D) 

Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having 
submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and 
no negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 

(vii)  Rejection of Bids

No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 

All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 

(viii)  Securities

Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of 
the contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of 
the contract price. No advance payments shall be made to contractors 
without a suitable advance payment security. The format of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 

(b) Limited International Bidding 
 
(c) Shopping 
 
(d) Direct Contracting 
 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

11

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 

(a) Least Cost Selection 

(b) Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 

(c) Individual Consultants 

(d) Single Source Selection   

(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 

Category 

(1) Goods, services and, 
training for Part 2(c) of the 
Project 
 

(2) Goods, services and 
training for all Parts of the 
Project, other than Part 
2(c); incremental operating 
costs and audit  
 

(3) Front-end Fee 

12

 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

44,875,000 

5,000,000 

125,000 

 

 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
 
100% 

 
100% 

Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

50,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

B. 
 
1. 
made: 
 
 

 
2. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 

(a) 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or   

(b) 

under Category (1) for expenditures for Part 2(c) of the Project until the 
establishment  of  the  PFMS  countrywide  network  telecommunication 
lines are completed, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 

13

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

Principal Payment Date

Principal Amount of the 
Loan Payable 
(Expressed in U.S. Dollars)

July 15, 2013 
January 15, 2014 
July 15, 2014 
January 15, 2015 
July 15, 2015 
January 15, 2016 
July 15, 2016 
January 15, 2017 
July 15, 2017 
January 15, 2018 
July 15, 2018 
January 15, 2019 
July 15, 2019 
January 15, 2020 
July 15, 2020 
January 15, 2021 
July 15, 2021 
January 15, 2022 
July 15, 2022 
January 15, 2023 
July 15, 2023 
January 15, 2024 
July 15, 2024 
January 15, 2025 

2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,085,000 
2,045,000 

Totals 

50,000,000 

14

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

 “APST”  means  the  Administration  and  Procurement  Support  Team,  which  is 
responsible  for  implementation  and  coordination  of  the  Project,  under  the 
supervision of the Project Manager and which is made up of (a) the MoF officials 
working  at  the  Sector  for  Implementation  of  the  PFMP,  established  under  the 
Department  for  Cooperation  with  International  Financial  Organizations  of  the 
MoF, with the MoF’s Order No. 759, dated June 26, 2007, or its successor, and 
(b) staff hired under the Project. 

“AWP” means the Borrower’s detailed annual work plan for implementation of 
the Project for the upcoming year, including details as to component activities, a 
procurement plan and a disbursement plan, which in each year will be reviewed 
and approved by the IWG. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004, 
revised October 2006. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 17, 2007).  

“Incremental  Operating  Costs”  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower, 
through the MoF, to finance reasonable and necessary operating expenses of the 
APST  including hired staff fees and reimbursables (but excluding civil servants 
salaries), office equipment and supplies, stationary, maintenance, communication 
(internet and telephone), transportation, travel and per diem, advertising in local 
press,  bank  charges,  software  subscriptions  and  any  other  expenses  as  may  be 
agreed with the Bank. 

“Interagency  Working  Group”  or  “IWG”  means  the  group,  chaired  by  the 
Minister of Finance, established and acting in accordance with the Resolution of 
the Cabinet of Ministers No. 812 dated June 6, 2007, or its successor.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

15

9. 

9. 

 
11. 

 
12. 
 
13. 

14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

“KRU”  means  the  Main  Control  and  Revision  Office  of  Ukraine  (Golovne 
the 
Kontrolne-Reveziyne  Upravlinnya),  which  acts 
Regulation  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  No.  884  dated  June  27,  2007,  or  its 
successor.

in  accordance  with 

 Ministry of Finance or “MoF” means the central body of executive power of the 
Borrower  which  acts  in  accordance  with  the  Regulation  of  the  Cabinet  of 
Ministers No. 1837 dated December 27, 2006, or its successor. 

“Project  Operations  Manual”  means  the  manual,  which  sets  out  the  procedures 
for  implementation  of  the  Project,  and  including,  inter  alia:  (i)  procedures 
governing  administrative,  procurement,  accounting,  financial  management, 
monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements  and  plan  preparation  and  reporting 
requirements; and (ii) details of the Project Parts. 

“PFMS” means Public Financial Management System of the Borrower. 

“PFMS  Action  Plan”  means  the  action  plan  for  implementation  of  the  PFMS 
Modernization Strategy prepared by the MoF, STU and KRU. 

“PFMS Modernization Strategy” means the strategy  for modernizing the Public 
Finance  Management  System,  adopted  by  the  Resolution  of  the  Cabinet  of 
Ministers No. 888 dated October 17, 2007. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004,  revised  October 
2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  November  8,  2007, and referred to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Manager”  means  the  Deputy  Minister  of  Finance,  responsible  for  the 
overall Project management. 

“State  Treasury  of  Ukraine”  or  “STU”  means  the  government  body  of  the 
Borrower  which  acts  in  accordance  with  the  Regulation  of  the  Cabinet  of 
Ministers No. 1232 dated December 21, 2005, or its successor. 

“Training”  means  all  training  activities  under  the  Project,  and  training 
expenditures shall cover expenditures incurred by the Borrower for such training, 
including reasonable costs of transportation, training materials and publications, 
accommodations  and  per  diem,  interpretation  services,  cost  of  study  tours  and 
workshops,  and  such  other  expenditures  as  may  be  agreed  with  the  Bank.

16

 

