LOAN NUMBER 7621-CO 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Third Programmatic Development Policy Loan  
for Sustainable Development) 
 

between 
 

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated _______________________, 200_  

LOAN NUMBER 7621-CO 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  ____________________,  200_,  entered 

into  between 
REPUBLIC  OF  COLOMBIA  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis,  inter  alia, of:  (a)  the  actions 
which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the fulfillment of the standard and special 
conditions  of  Effectiveness  described  in  Section  5.01  of  this  Agreement;  and  (c)  the 
Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an  appropriate  macro-economic  policy  framework.    The 
Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  and  modified  in  the  Appendix  to  this 

Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of US$450,000,000 (Four hundred fifty 
million Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”).  

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 

2

shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i)  a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of 
the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 

 

 

 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall:  (i)  regularly  monitor  the  Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework and the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program; and (ii) from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on these matters and the actions specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

(b) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

(c) 

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

3

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist on the following: 
 

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 

The  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 

framework  has  become 

An  action  has  been  taken  or  a  policy  has  been  adopted  to  reverse  any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section 
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion 
of  the  Bank,  adversely  affect  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  of  the 
Program. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS 

5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on June 18, 2010. 

 

4

ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable address:   
MINHACIENDA 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Facsimile: 
(571) 350-9344 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

5

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States of  America,  as  of  the  day 

and year first above written. 
 

 
 

 
 

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By 

By 

 

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 

The Borrower has taken the following actions to improve strategic planning and 

1. 
monitoring framework for sustainable development:  
 

Issued,  through  CONPES,  a  policy  directive  approving  the  national 
policy on environmental health, covering the areas of water quality and 
urban  and  indoor  air  quality,  considering  the  results  of  policy-based 
SEAs. 

Issued, through MAVDT, official letter signed by its Vice-Minister No. 
2000-2-126271  dated  November  5,  2008,  accompanied  by  various 
official communications supporting the actions taken by MAVDT for the 
strengthening of its climate change unit and the necessary steps to meet 
the  2006-2010  National 
forth 
the  environmental  goals  set 
Development Plan.  

in 

(i) Issued, though MAVDT, Circular No. 2000-3-129333, signed by its 
Vice-Minister  and  dated  November  11,  2008,  accompanied  by  other 
official  communications  and  screenshots  from  MAVDT’s  website 
supporting  the  establishment  of  procedures  for  the  implementation  of  a 
system to monitor and evaluate both national and regional environmental 
management, based on the sustainable development objectives described 
in  Decree  1200  of  April  20,  2004;  and  (ii)  published  electronically, 
through  MAVDT,  on  its  website  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  system 
referred to in (i) above. 

 
2. 
 The  Borrower  has  taken  the  following  actions  to  improve  inter-institutional 
coordination, as well as increased public participation in environmental decision-making: 
 

Issued,  through  MAVDT,  an  official  letter  signed  by  its  Vice-Minister, 
attaching  draft  minutes  of  the  XXV  National  Environmental  Council 
meeting dated July 28, 2008, evidencing the discussion and approval of 
an urban environmental policy jointly prepared by MAVDT, CARs and 
AAUs, clarifying roles and responsibilities of CARs and AAUs, as well 
as implementing mechanisms for improved transparency.  

 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

 

7

Issued,  through  DNP  and  MAVDT,  official  letters  Nos.  GPADS-
20087030663111  of  November  5,  2008  and  2000-2-128270  of 
November  10,  2008  respectively,  accompanied  by  various  official 
communications supporting the actions taken by both agencies to adapt 
DNP and MAVDT’s structures to better meet the environmental goals set 
forth in the 2006-2010 National Development Plan, as well as to better 
manage environmental policies. 

The  Borrower  has  taken  the  following  actions  to  reduce  cost  of  environmental 

 
3. 
degradation associated with water resources and air quality management: 
 

Issued,  through  MAVDT,  Resolution  No.  2160  of  December  7,  2007, 
jointly  with  an  official  letter  signed  by  its Vice-Minister  dated  October 
31, 2008, creating the water resources unit within MAVDT, setting forth 
its functions  and responsibilities,  and  indicating  the  budget  allocated  to 
said unit for the carrying out of its functions. 

Issued,  through  MAVDT,  signed  minutes  of  the  CONAIRE  meeting 
dated  October  24,  2008,  approving  a  national  policy  for  air  pollution 
control. 

(b) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche. 
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations

Single Tranche 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

 
 
 

$450,000,000 

$450,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 

A. 

 
B. 

 

C. 
 
 
D. 

8

1. 

 
2.  

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

E. 

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

 
Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

F. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2009.   

9

SCHEDULE 2 

Amortization Schedule 
 

 

 

 

 

1. 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each April 15 and October 15  
Beginning  April  15,  2020,  through  April 
15, 2032 
On October 15, 2032 

 

3.85% 
3.75% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

10

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

 

11

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 
 

“AAUs”  means  Autoridades  Ambientales  Urbanas,
environmental authorities. 

the  Borrower’s  urban 

“CARs”  means  Corporaciones  Autónomas  Regionales, the  Borrower’s  regional 
autonomous corporations. 

“CONAIRE”  means  Comisión  Técnica  Nacional  Intersectorial  para 
la 
Prevención  y  Control  de  la  Contaminación  del  Aire, the  Borrower’s  inter-
sectoral technical commission for the prevention and control of air pollution. 

“CONPES”  means  Consejo  Nacional  de  Política  Económica  y  Social,
Borrower’s National Council on Economic and Social Policy. 

the 

“DNP”  means  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeación,  the  Borrower’s  National 
Planning Department.  

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

Description of Item 

Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 

12

 

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

667 

718 

728 
897 

971 

 

Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  

“MAVDT” means Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment, Housing and Regional Development. 

“National  Development  Plan”  means  Plan  Nacional  de  Desarrollo,
the 
Borrower’s plan for implementation (Estado Comunitario: Desarrollo para todos 
2006-2010)  which  sets  forth  national  purposes,  objectives,  goals,  priorities, 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

13

actions  and  strategies  of  the  Borrower’s  economic,  social  and  environmental 
policy to be adopted by the Borrower’s government. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred to in the letter dated November 14, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the continued execution of the Program, 
and  requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 

“SEA”  means  Evaluación  Ambiental  Estratégica,
environmental  assessment,  a  document 
considerations into sectoral planning.  

that 

the  Borrower’s  strategic 
incorporates  environmental 

“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
…
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 

 

 

14

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  as  set  forth  in  the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 

The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 

“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C.  time,  on  the  Withdrawal  Date;  provided,  that:  (a)  for  purposes  of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is 
applicable  to  an  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  on  which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day  prior  to  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement,  for  the  Currency  of 
denomination  of  such  amount;  (b)  for  purposes  of  fixing  the  Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread  for the  Loan  Currency  in  effect at 12:01  a.m.  Washington,  D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or  any  amount  of  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  pursuant  to  Section 
4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.  

15

(d) 

 

 
(f) 

 
The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

(e) 

The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 

“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted  average  margin,  for  the  Interest  Period,  below  (or  above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans  that  carry  interest  at  a  rate  based  on  the  Variable  Spread;  as 
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a  percentage  per 
annum.  In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  

A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 

“Withdrawal”  means  each  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  by  the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 

(g) 

A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 

“Withdrawal  Date”  means,  for  each  Withdrawal,  the date  on  which  the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

