CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7549-AZ 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Absheron Rehabilitation Program II:  
Integrated Solid Waste Management Project) 
 

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated May 20, 2009 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7549-AZ 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  May  20,  2009,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  twenty-nine  million  five  hundred 
thousand Dollars ($29,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07  of  this  Agreement (“Loan”),  to  assist in financing  the  project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 

- 3 -

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PMT in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 

- 4 -

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

Presidential  Decree  No.  1697,  dated  September  28,  2006,  establishing 
the  Borrower’s  Comprehensive  Action  Plan 
Improving 
Environmental  Situation 
in  Azerbaijan  for  2006-2010,  has  been 
amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 

on 

The  Project  Operational  Manual  has  been  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.

Presidential  Decree  No.  504,  dated  December  28,  2006,  approving  the 
Charter of the Ministry of Economic Development of the Borrower, has 
been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 

Any  event  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  through  (c)  of  Section  4.01  of  this 
Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of  60  days  after  notice  of  the 
event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual, acceptable to 
the Bank. 

The Borrower has appointed the procurement and financial management 
specialists acceptable to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  has  put  in  place  the  financial  management  system 
acceptable to the Bank. 

 
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 

date of this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 

- 5 -

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 

 

Telex:   
 
142116 BNKSL 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 

By: /s/ Shahin Abdulla oglu Mustafayev 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Gregory Jedrzejczak 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

- 6 -

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  support  the  reform  of  the  Greater  Baku  solid 

waste collection and disposal operations into an effective and sustainable system. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Component A: Institutional Reform, Capacity Building and Project Management

Provision  of  capacity  building  and  management  support  programs  for  practical 

1. 
Finalization of a strategic plan for the sector, which includes: (a) analytical work 
to  assess  the  existing  systems,  institutional  reform,  sector  financing,  funding  and  cash 
flow  management;  (b)  development  of  legal  framework  and  institutional  structure;  (c) 
development  of  roll-out  plans  for  waste  collection  services  and  involvement  of  private 
sector;  (d)  tariff  and  tariff  collection  reforms;  (e)  development  of  accounting  and  data 
systems;  and  (f)  strategy  for  dealing  with  medical  and  hazardous  waste,  planning  for 
rehabilitation of disposal sites and closure of informal dumps. 
 
2. 
management and operational skills in solid waste collection and disposal. 
 
3. 
communication program. 
 
4. 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Component B: Balakhani Landfill Rehabilitation and Management

Provision of goods and consultants’ services for public awareness campaigns and 

Strengthening of the management capacity of the PMT to monitor and administer 

Improvement of the capacity of an existing landfill for continuation of disposal 

activities in an operationally and environmentally sound manner. 
 
Component C: Closure and Management of Informal Dumps

Closure and cleanup of informal dumps through removal and the transportation 
of waste from all wild dumps, as well as the improvement of management of formal sites, 
in order to minimize the negative environmental effects associated with informal or non-
sanitary waste disposal. 
 
Component D: Urgent Collection Equipment

Provision  of  goods  in  order  to  increase  the  service  quality  and  availability  of 

solid waste collection coverage and service efficiency. 
 

Component E: Technical Preparation of Future Investment

Preparation  of  feasibility  studies  and  environmental  impact  assessments  needed 
to develop new landfill capacity and introduce transfer stations to maintain an effective 
enhanced waste collection and disposal system. 

- 7 -

 

- 8 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

A. 

1. 

2. 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  the  Ministry  of  Economic  Development  of  the 
Borrower,  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  the  PMT  headed  by  a 
project  manager  and  with  staff,  resources  and  under  terms  of  reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall,  until  the  completion  of  the  Project,  cause  to  maintain  the 
Working Group, which shall meet at least quarterly and whose composition and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank. 

 B. 

Anti-Corruption 

Safeguards 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
EMF, EMP and RPF shall be taken in a timely manner. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  RAPs:  (a)  shall  be  prepared  in  a  manner 
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the RPF prior to commencement of 
any activities for the areas where physical relocation, land acquisition and/or loss 
of  income  due  to  the  Project  activities  have  been  identified,  and;  (b)  shall  be 
carried out in a timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank. 

Section II.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 

- 9 -

The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 
30,  2010,  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient  carrying  out  of  the  Project  and  the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(b)  review  with  the  Bank,  by  October  30,  2010,  or  such  later  date  as  the  Bank 
shall  request,  the  report  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  and, 
thereafter,  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Section III.

Procurement

General 

Goods  and  Works.      All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  shall  be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 

2. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

- 10 -

contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

Procurement Method 
 

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 

(i) 
(ii)  

(ii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vi) 

(viii) 
(ix) 

(x) 

there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder; 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and 
shall be conducted only for large works contracts; 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring 
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation. 

(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 

- 11 -

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following 
table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 
 

(a) Quality-based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-source Selection 
 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant  
  Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

 
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 
 
1. 

 

- 12 -

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(excluding VAT) 
 

(1)  Goods, works, 

29,426,250 

100% 

Category 

consultants’ services, 
training and incremental 
operating costs for the 
Components A, B, C 
and E of the Project 

 
(2)  Front-end Fee 

            

73,750 

Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 
2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 

(3)  Premia for Interest Rate 

Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

29,500,000

 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 

The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 

2. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 
 

- 13 -

Section V.

Other Undertakings

Unless  otherwise  agreed  with  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  a 
technical design has been approved by the Bank prior to the commencement of 
any activities involving works for each specific site under Component B of the 
Project. 

Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, no activities under Component A.2 shall 
commence  prior  to  the  establishment  of  a  joint-stock  company  for  solid  waste 
management, with its own legal status and institutional arrangements. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

- 14 -

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

1. 

 

Principal Payment Date 

November 15, 2012 
May 15, 2013 
November 15, 2013 
May 15, 2014 
November 15, 2014 
May 15, 2015 
November 15, 2015 
May 15, 2016 
November 15, 2016 
May 15, 2017 
November 15, 2017 
May 15, 2018 
November 15, 2018 
May 15, 2019 
November 15, 2019 
May 15, 2020 
November 15, 2020 
May 15, 2021 
November 15, 2021 
May 15, 2022 
November 15, 2022 
May 15, 2023 
November 15, 2023 
May 15, 2024 
November 15, 2024 
May 15, 2025 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.42% 
2.50% 
2.59% 
2.68% 
2.78% 
2.87% 
2.97% 
3.08% 
3.19% 
3.30% 
3.41% 
3.53% 
3.66% 
3.78% 
3.92% 
4.05% 
4.20% 
4.34% 
4.49% 
4.65% 
4.81% 
4.98% 
5.16% 
5.34% 
5.52% 
5.78% 

2.  

 

 

4. 

- 15 -

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

3. 

(a) 

5. 

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

- 16 -

 

- 17 -

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“EMF”  means  the  Environmental  Management  Framework,  dated  February  22, 
2008, setting forth the framework of environmental management to be carried out 
under Component C of the Project in order to mitigate any adverse impact to the 
environment. 

“EMP”  means  the  Environmental  Management  Plan,  dated  February  20,  2008, 
setting  forth  measures  to  mitigate  any  adverse  impact  to  the  environment  for 
Component B of the Project. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

“Incremental  Operating  Costs”  means  incremental  operating  and  maintenance 
costs  incurred  by  the  Borrower  on  account  of  management  of  Project 
implementation for communications, utilities including electricity, bank charges, 
printing  and  publications,  office  rent  maintenance,  repair  and  supplies,  office 
security  systems,  vehicle  operation,  fuel  and  maintenance,  salaries  of  the 
Borrower’s staff  employed  for  the  purpose  of  the  Project,  excluding  those  who 
are civil servants, eligible social charges, transportation and field trip expenses, 
insurance  for  office  equipment  and  vehicle,  all  for  the  purpose  of  Project 
management, as such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Bank. 

“PMT”  means the  Project Management Team  within the Ministry  of  Economic 
Development  of  the  Borrower,  established  through  the  Ministerial  Decree  No. 
653,  dated  November  14,  2007,  or  any  successor  thereto,  responsible  for  the 
day-to-day management and monitoring of the Project. 

- 18 -

9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  April  29,  2008  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Operational  Manual”  means  the  implementation  manual  referred  to  in 
Section  5.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement,  setting  forth  the  operational  and 
administrative procedures for the implementation of the Project and including all 
environmental  and  social  safeguard  frameworks,  implementation  schedule  and 
key terms of reference, as well as the Procurement Plan. 

“RAP”  means  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  prepared  by  the  Borrower  as 
implementing  recommendation  of  the  RPF  (as  hereinafter  defined)  under  the 
Project. 

“RPF” means the Resettlement Policy Framework, dated April 2, 2008, defining 
the  modalities  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of  displaced 
persons under Components B and C of the Project. 

“Training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower in connection with carrying 
out training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per diem for 
local  trainees  and  trainers,  study  tours  and  workshops,  rental  of  facilities  and 
equipment and training materials and related supplies. 

“VAT”  means the  value-added tax, levied  in accordance  with  the  legislation  of 
the Borrower. 

“Working  Group”  means  the  inter-agency  group  established  by  the  Ministry  of 
Economic  Development  of  the  Borrower  through  the  Ministerial  Order  of  the 
Ministry of Economic Development (Order No. 653), dated November 14, 2007, 
or  any  successor  thereto,  whose  compositions  and  the  duration  of  its  mandate 
may be changed from time to time with the agreement between the Borrower and 
the  Bank,  in  order  to  coordinate  among  stakeholders,  including  the  Ministry  of 
Industry  and  Energy  of  the  Borrower,  the  Ministry  of  the  Environment  and 
the  Borrower,  Baku  City  Executive  Authority.
Natural  Resources  of 

 

