CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7609-CO 

Loan Agreement 
 

(Additional Loan for the Bogotá Urban Services Project) 
 

between 
 

BOGOTÁ DISTRITO CAPITAL 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated February 23, 2009 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7609-CO 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

Agreement  dated  February  23,  2009  (the  Agreement)  entered  into  between 
 
BOGOTÁ  DISTRITO  CAPITAL  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing a 
loan (the Loan) to assist in financing the expansion of the activities related to the Original 
Project set forth in the Original Loan Agreement (all as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  

 

ARTICLE II —    LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000) 
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread,  provided  that, 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

2

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 
 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its continued commitment to the objective of the Project.  
To  this  end,  the  Borrower shall:   (a)  continue  to  carry  out  selected  Parts of  the 
Project  as  are  set  forth  in  the  Original  Loan  Agreement  with  the  entities 
described therein, and (b) maintain, for purposes of this Loan: 

(i) 
 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

SDH responsible for carrying out Part C.7 of the Project;  

IDU  responsible  for  carrying  out  Parts  C.8  and  C.9  of  the 
Project; and 

SM, responsible for carrying out Part A.7 of the Project; 

all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.  

 
3.02  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 

 

 

 

 

3

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

4

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
4.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  IDU,  shall  have 
been  updated,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  reflect  the  implementation 
arrangements under this Loan. 

The  Current  Operational  Manual,  including  therein  the  EMP,  RAP  and 
Procurement  Plan  prepared  for  the  Project  to  be  financed  under  this 
Loan,  shall  each  have  been  amended  and  updated,  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank, to reflect the implementation arrangements in respect of this Loan. 

 
4.02.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Agreement, but in 
no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on April 21, 2010. 

ARTICLE V— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance. 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Bogotá Distrito Capital 
Secretaría de Hacienda 
Carrera 30 No. 25-90, Oficina 601 
Bogotá, D.C., República de Colombia 

Facsimile:  
57-1-350-9891 

 
 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable:   

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INDEVAS 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI)   

1-202-477-6391 

5

AGREED at Bogotá, Republic of Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 

BOGOTÁ DISTRITO CAPITAL 

 

By /s/ Juan Ricardo Ortega López 

Authorized Representative  

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  

By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  Project  consists  of  the  following  Parts  which:  (a)  maintain    the  Original 
Project’s  objective  to  improve  the  Borrower’s  urban  living  conditions  by  increasing 
access,  coverage,  quality,  reliability  and  inter-agency  coordination  in  the  provision  of 
public  transportation,  sanitation  services  and  potable  water;  and  (b)  are  selectively 
integrated, for purposes of this Loan, in the Parts of the Original Project, as follows:  

 
Part A: Improved mobility (includes the following new activity): 

1, 

“7. 
The  provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and  associated  goods  for  the 
carrying out of design activities, studies, surveys, analytical research, social assessments 
and  evaluations  in  technical,  legal,  policy,  environmental  and  urban  matters  for  the 
expansion and improvement of the Borrower’s integrated urban public transport network 
with special emphasis on the development of the first line of a proposed metro transport 
system.” 

2. 

Part C: Institutional Development (includes the following new activities): 

 “7. 
Provision of support, including technical advisory services and associated goods 
for the strengthening of the capacity of the Borrower in areas of fiscal management and 
urban  planning  and  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a  spatially-based  management 
model  of  international  standard  using  geographic  information    with  a  view  to 
transforming the existing Cadastre Unit into a key management tool. 

Provision of support, including technical advisory services and associated goods 
8. 
for  the  strengthening  of  the  Cadastre  Unit  to  enable  it  to  carry  out  activities  in 
information  technology  capacity  enhancement,  social  communication,  preparation  of 
technical  and  legal  studies,  institutional  design  and  technical  and  institutional  capacity 
building activities related to, inter alia:

(a) 

 
(b) 

land  tax  valuation  exercises,  including  the  implementation  of  a  policy 
reform  package  to  mitigate  social  consequences  of  property  tax 
increases; and  

the  elaboration  and  implementation  of  a  medium-term  program  of 
operational  reform,  including  an  overall  restructuring  of  the  business 
model  and  institutional  design  of  the  Cadastre  Unit  to  ensure  inter-
operability with the Borrower’s  property registry and the public service 
providers. 

 

7

Provision of support, including technical advisory services and associated goods 

9. 
for the building of: 

(a) 
 
(b) 

institutional capacity in IDU to improve its management; and 

operational and technical capacity in selected IDU staff  to improve the 
Borrower’s  road  network  management  through,  inter  alia:
(i)  the 
carrying out of diagnostic research, surveys, studies and assessments to 
determine,  among  other  aspects,  the  overall  future  maintenance  and 
rehabilitation  costs  of  the  road  network  system,  including  in  respect  of  
pedestrian  and  vehicle  bridges;  and  (ii)  the    determination  of  the 
Borrower’s  projected  road  system  investment  needs,  including  all 
available technical and financial options in relation thereto.” 

8

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements 

 

 
B. 

1. 

 
2. 

C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

The Borrower shall maintain, for purposes of the implementation of the Project’s 
additional  activities  and  in  respect  of:  (a)  Part  A.7  of  the  Project  and  (b)  Parts 
C.7,  C.8  and  C.9  of  the  Project,  all  the  institutional  arrangements  concerning 
SDH, SM and IDU as are set forth in the Original Loan Agreement, including the 
operation of a Project coordination unit in SDH, under the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Original Loan Agreement.   

Subsidiary Agreement  

The Borrower shall continue to carry out and maintain hereunder, satisfactory to 
the Bank, all the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement entered into 
with IDU for the carrying out of all the relevant activities under this Loan, except 
as required pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement.  

The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary 
Agreement entered into with IDU in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not under this Loan, assign, 
amend,  abrogate  or waive  said  Subsidiary  Agreement  or  any  of  its  provisions, 
except as required pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 

Implementation Documents 

The Borrower has revised, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, an operational 
manual dated July 2003, as amended to date, to include the specific requirements 
and  guidelines  of  the  additional  activities  financed  under  this  Loan  (Current 
Operational Manual) and which consists of different schedules, setting forth inter 
alia, detailed  description  of  Project  activities  and  relevant  specifications  in 
respect thereof, the rules, guidelines, methods, construction directives for works, 
specific development plans, standard documents and procedures to be maintained 
for the further carrying out of the Project.  

In the event that any provision of the Current Operational Manual shall conflict 
with any one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

The Current Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time in 
consultation with, and after approval of, the Bank. 

D. 
 
1. 

2. 

 
E. 

1. 

 
F.  
 

A. 
 
1. 

B. 
 
1. 

2. 

9

 Other Implementation Arrangements 

The Borrower shall continue to furnish to the Bank for approval, and to DNP for 
review,  the  Annual  Action  Plan in  respect  of  all the activities to  be  carried  out 
under  the  Project  during  the  twelve  months  immediately  following  the 
presentation of each said plan; under terms and conditions specified in detail in 
the Original Loan Agreement. 

The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  include  in  each  annual  budget  proposed  to  its 
legislature, and make available each year of Project implementation, promptly as 
needed, in Pesos, the amounts required as counterpart funds for the Project. 

Safeguards 

The  Borrower  shall  update  the  commitments  and  actions  agreed  between  the 
Borrower and IDU under the Subsidiary Agreement entered with IDU, to ensure 
that the Borrower continues to carry out and cause  the Project to be carried out 
under  this  Loan,  in  accordance  with  all  pertinent  environmental  and  social 
safeguards as may be required by, and agreed with, the Bank for purposes of the 
additional Project activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 

Anti-Corruption 

Project Reports 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  same  arrangements  for  Project  monitoring, 
reporting  and  evaluation  as  are  set  forth  in  the  Original  Loan  Agreement, 
including  with  respect  to  the  updated  performance  indicators  for  this  Loan  set 
forth in the Implementation Letter. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  all  the  arrangements  for  financial  management, 
financial  reports and  audits  of  Project execution as are  set  forth  in  the  Original 
Loan Agreement. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the  Borrower  shall,  for  purposes  of  this  Loan, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each  calendar  semester,  interim  un-audited  financial  reports  for  the  Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  

10

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 
 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods and Non-Consultant Services 
required  for  the  Project  under  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  Section  I  of  the 
Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the  provisions  of  the  Original  Loan 
Agreement. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project under 
this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be 
procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of the Original Loan Agreement. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan reflecting the arrangements under this Loan shall set forth 
those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank’s  Prior  Review.    All  other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

General 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the    Loan  in accordance  with the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to  finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 

11

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

Percentage of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed

16,100,000 

13,900,000 

100% 

100% 

Category

(1)  Goods, Non-consultant services, 
consultant services and Training 
under Part A.7 of the Project 
 
(2)  Goods, Non-consultant services, 
consultant services and Training 
under Parts C.7, C.8 and C.9 of the 
Project  

 

 

 

 

B. 
 
1. 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

30,000,000 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

(a) 

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; and 

(b) 

for payments made prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement. 

2. 

The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 

12

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the  Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each  May 15 and November 15 
 

Beginning on November 15, 2013 
Through May 15, 2018. 

10% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

1. 

 

 

 
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

13

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date, shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, if at any time 
the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions 
of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made 
after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

 

14

APPENDIX 
 

Section I.  Definitions

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

Anti-Corruption Guidelines means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Cadastre Unit” means a unit under SDH (as hereinafter defined) responsible for 
managing the Borrower’s urban land and housing registry. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Current  Operational  Manual”  means  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.C.1of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Environmental Management Plan” and the acronym “EMP” mean the plan of 
actions dated November 2002, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the 
Borrower with the assistance of IDU, among other agencies, and revised for 
purposes of the additional activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
which sets out the objectives, policies, monitoring procedures, time schedules 
and other environmental provisions to mitigate adverse environmental effects in 
the carrying out of the Project.  

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February  12,  2008),  with  the  modifications  set  forth  in  Section  II  of  this 
Appendix.  

“IDU”  means  Instituto  de  Desarrollo  Urbano, 
Development Institute or any successor thereto. 

the  Borrower’s  Urban 

“Implementation  Letter”  means  the  letter  of  even  date  herewith  from  the 
Borrower  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  revised  Project  monitoring  indicators  in 
respect of the additional activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

“Non-Consultant Services” means in respect of Categories 1 and 2 in the table of 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be contracted for the 
carrying  out  of  activities  related  to  the  carrying  out  of,  inter  alia, social 
communication campaigns, including surveys and outreach programs. 

15

11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 
 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

20. 

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Borrower and 
the  Bank  for  the  Bogotá  Urban  Services  Project,  dated  June  04,  2003,  as 
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7162-CO). 

“Original  Project”  means  the  Project  first  described  in  the  Original  Loan 
Agreement.  

“Peso” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s 2003 procurement plan for the Project 
referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 
of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Resettlement  Action  Plan”  and  the  acronym  “RAP”  mean  the    resettlement 
action  plan  prepared  by  IDU,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,    in  connection  with  the 
carrying  out  of  Part  A.1  of  the  Project,  which  sets  out  the  principles  and 
resettlement,  compensation  and 
procedures  governing 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons, as defined in the Original Loan Agreement, as 
well  as  administrative,  reporting  and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure 
compliance  with  said  plan,  as  such  plan  may  be  revised  under  this  Loan  in 
agreement  with  the  Bank,  for  purposes  of  the  implementation  of  the  additional 
activities set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

land  acquisition, 

“SDH”  means  Secretaría  Distrital  de  Hacienda, the  Borrower’s  Secretariat  of 
Finance or any successor thereto.  

“SM”  means  Secretaría  de  Movilidad, the  Borrower’s  Secretariat  for  Mobility, 
successor  to  “STT-FONDATT”  or  Fondo  de  Educación  y  Seguridad  Vial  de 
Tránsito  y  Transporte,  the  Borrower’s  Fund  for  Transport,  Transit  and  Safety 
Education, and made responsible under Section 3.01. (b) (iii) of this Agreement 
for the carrying out of selected activities under this Loan. 

“Subsidiary  Agreement”  mean  the  agreement  dated  July  2003,  entered  into 
between the Borrower and IDU as the same may be amended in agreement with 
the Bank, including for the implementation of the additional activities set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“Training” means  in respect of Categories 1 and 2 of the table in Section IV.A 2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred to finance transportation costs and per-diem of trainees, rental 

16

of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and material under the 
Project. 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions

The modification to the General Conditions is as follows:   

1. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

... 
(l)  Ineligibility. The  Bank  has  declared  the  Borrower  (other  than  the 
Member  Country)  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  ineligible  to  receive 
proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  otherwise  to  participate  in  the 
preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the 
Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank” 

 

 

