CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7678-CN 

 

 

between 
 

and 
 

Loan Agreement 

(GuiGuang Railway Project) 
 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 3, 2009  

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  June  3,  2009, between  PEOPLE’S  REPUBLIC  
OF  CHINA  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  three  hundred  million  Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 

2

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(a) 

2.07. 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III – PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Railways in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 

4.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement.  

 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 

 

3

Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
86-10-6855-1125 

 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People’s  Republic  of  China,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

By /s/ Zheng Xiaosong 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ David Dollar 

Authorized Representative 

4

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

The objective of the Project is to provide additional transport capacity and reduce 
transport  time  between  the  less  developed  western  region  in  southwest  China  and  the 
relatively more developed Pearl River delta region. 

 
The Project consists of the following part, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objectives: 

 

Part A:  Railway Line between Guiyang and Guangzhou 
 
1. 

Construction of a new two track electrified rail line of about 857 km for freight 
and  passenger  service  connecting  Guiyang 
in  Guizhou  Province  and 
Guangzhou  in  Guangdong  Province,  including  construction  of  sub-grades, 
tunnels,  bridges,  culverts  and  buildings,  acquisition  and  installation  of  goods 
(including  communications, 
signaling,  mechanical  and  electrification 
equipment, and concrete beams), and provision of related technical assistance. 

Construction of new railway stations along the rail line referred to in Part A.1 
of the Project. 

Resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons  in  connection  with  the 
carrying out of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.  

5

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

1. 

The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 

cause  the  Ministry  of  Railways  to  engage  and  retain  throughout  the 
period  of  implementation  of  the  Project  the  independent  procurement 
agent,  referred  to  in  paragraph  A.3  of  Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  the 
purpose of procuring all goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and 

cause the Ministry of Railways to construct the GuiGuang Railway Line 
through  the  Preparation  Group,  including  installing  the  equipment 
procured pursuant to clause (a) of this paragraph, in accordance with: 

(i) 

arrangements and a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank;  

appropriate  technical  standards,  alignment  and  specifications; 
and 

appropriate  international  standards  and  practices  relating  to 
design,  installation  and  construction  supervision,  including 
standards and practices for securing, assimilating and integrating 
tested,  mature  and  safe  technology  and  products  suitable  for 
operating the GuiGuang Railway Line; and 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

(c) 

except as the Bank may otherwise agree, cause the Ministry of Railways 
to maintain:  

the Preparation Group with adequate powers, functions, staff and 
resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  in  order  to  enable  it  to 
implement  the  construction  of  the  GuiGuang  Railway  Line  and 
to ensure the implementation of the RAP Arrangements; and 

FCTIC  with  adequate  powers,  functions,  staff  and  resources 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  in  order  to  enable  it  to  carry  out 
procurement and financial management related to the Project and 
to supervise the implementation of the Project. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

The  Borrower  shall  take,  and  shall  cause  the  Ministry  of  Railways  to  take,  all 
necessary  actions,  including  provision  of  timely  consents  and  approvals,  to 

 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 

6

facilitate the implementation of the Project and to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its undertakings in this Agreement. 

The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of Railways, cause the Provinces: (a) to 
provide  full  support,  cooperation  and  assistance;  and  (b)  to  take  all  necessary 
actions, including provision of timely consents and approvals, all for the purpose 
of  facilitating  the  implementation  of  the  Project  and  to  enable  the  Borrower  to 
comply with its undertakings in this Agreement. 

The Borrower shall and shall cause the Ministry of Railways and through it the 
Provinces to  maintain  all  relevant  records  and  documents  related to  the  Project 
and  provide  promptly  such  documents  and  records,  including  all  other 
information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank from time to time.  

In  carrying  out  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  implement  and  shall  cause  the 
Ministry  of  Railways  and  through  it the  Provinces to implement  or cause to  be 
implemented their respective obligations under the RAP, the RAP Arrangements, 
the EMP and the EMDP, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Without  limitation  to  the  foregoing,  the  Borrower  shall,  and  shall  cause  the 
Ministry of Railways and through it the Provinces, to: 

take  all  necessary  actions  to  minimize  to  the  extent  possible  any 
involuntary  loss  by  persons  of  shelter,  productive  assets  or  access  to 
productive  assets  or  income  or  means  of  livelihood,  temporarily  or 
permanently, and the displacement of said people in the carrying out of 
the Project or any part thereof;  

where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable,  before  initiating  the  implementation  of  any  works  which 
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such 
people  compensation  and,  as  applicable,  relocate  and  rehabilitate  the 
displaced people in accordance with the RAP and the RAP Arrangements 
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;  

not amend, suspend, abrogate, fail to enforce, or waive the EMP or the 
RAP or the RAP Arrangements or the EMDP or any provisions thereof  
without the prior concurrence of the Bank; and 

monitor on a six (6) monthly basis the implementation of the RAP, the 
RAP  Arrangements,  the  EMDP,  through  independent  consultants  or 
other  agencies  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  under  terms  of  reference 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  promptly  after  completion  of  each  said 
monitoring, provide to the Bank a report on the results of the monitoring.  

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c)  

 
(d) 

 

7

The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Railways to supplement the RAP in a 
manner  and  a  timeframe  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  in  order  to  update  the 
implementation measures set out therein including for villages severely affected 
by the Project. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the GuiGuang Railway Line is commissioned for 
operation  no  later  than  December  31,  2015,  following  appropriate  testing  and 
other procedures, and shall thereafter take all necessary measures to ensure that it 
is  operated  and  maintained  in  a  financially,  technically  and  administratively 
viable manner. 

The Borrower shall ensure, and shall cause the Ministry of Railways and through 
it  the  Provinces  to  ensure that  the  Project is  carried out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Annex  to  this 
Schedule.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  (1)  calendar 
semester,  and  shall  be  furnished to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2016. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim  un-audited 
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 

6.  

 
7. 

 
8. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

8

The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

Goods. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.  

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of all goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be carried out by a qualified procurement agent engaged by the Borrower through 
the  Ministry  of  Railways  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Part  C  of  this 
Section III and of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Definitions. The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  

International  Competitive  Bidding.
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of  International  Competitive  Bidding.  The  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  
and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation  of  bids,  shall  apply  to  goods  manufactured  in  the  territory  of  the 
Borrower  (other 
the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  the  Macau  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
Borrower). 

than  goods  manufactured 

in 

National  Competitive  Bidding  (NCB). Goods  costing  less  than  $500,000 
equivalent  per  contract  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  under  NCB 
procedures, subject to the additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below.  

Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for  National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  set  forth  in  the  Law  on 

9

Tendering and Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order 
No.21 of the President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, 
with the  following  clarifications required for  compliance  with  the  Procurement 
Guidelines: 
 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a 
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower’s  country, 
except  for  goods  contracts  that  are  estimated  to  cost  less  than 
$300,000  equivalent  each,  which  may  be  advertised  in  a 
provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification 
or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In 
any  event,  a  minimum  of  thirty  (30)  days  shall  be  given  to 
bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and 
the  deadline  for  submission  of  bids,  and  the  advertisement  and 
bidding  documents  shall  specify 
for  such 
submission. 

the  deadline 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of 
evaluating  the  qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in 
detail in the bidding documents. 

All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount 
sufficient  to  protect  the  Borrower  in  case  of  breach  of  contract 
by  the  contractor,  and  the  bidding  documents  shall  specify  the 
required form and amount of such security. 

Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand.  The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

(iv) 

 
(v) 

 
(vi) 

 

 

(vii)  All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 

 

10

(viii)  No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or  bracket  of 
average bids established by the Borrower. 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards  of  capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been 
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding 
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents  or  otherwise  to  modify  the  bid  as  originally 
submitted. 

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance  of  the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 

 
(ix) 

 
(x) 

 
(xi) 

Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower’s  country  may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they  can  establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 

 
(xii)  Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall  not 
the  Bank’s  prior  written 
concurrence. 

take  place  without 

 
(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be 
published  in  the  national  press  or  provincial  press  (as  provided 
under  3(i)  above)  or  official  gazette  or  a  free  and  open  access 
website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered  price  of  the 
winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and  summary  scope  of 
the awarded contract. 

the  Borrower  shall  have  in  place  provisions  for  bidders  to 
protest. 

 

(xiv) 

 

11

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

Procurement Method 

(a)  Quality-Based Selection 

(b)   Selection under Fixed Budget 

(c)   Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 

(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants 

(e)  Single Source Selection 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  the 
following  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Prior  Review  by  the  Bank:  (a)  each 
contract  for  goods  to  be  procured  on  the  basis  of  International  Competitive 
Bidding;  (b)  the  first  contract  for  goods  to  be  procured  under  National 
Competitive  Bidding  procedures;  (c)  each  contract  for  consultants’  services 
provided by a firm or an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 
or more; and (d) all consultant’s contracts procured under single source selection. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General 

A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures, 
inclusive of taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

12

300,000 

750,000 
 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 

(1)  Goods under Part A.1 of 

298,950,000 

the Project 

 
(2)  Consultants’ services, 

training and study tours 
under Part A.1 of the 
Project 

 
(3)  Front-end Fee 

 
Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed 
 
100% 
 

100% 
 

Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 

 

Total 

300,000,000 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 

2. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

13

ANNEX 

 

Project Development 
Objective 

transport 

The development objective of 
the  Project 
to  provide 
is 
additional  transport  capacity 
time 
and  reduce 
between  the  less  developed 
western  region  in  southwest 
China and the relatively more 
developed  Pearl  River  delta 
region. 
 

Results Framework 
 
Project Outcome Indicators 

1. Provide passenger train services 
(No. of pairs of trains per day). 
 
2.  Provide  freight  train  services 
(No. of pairs of trains per day). 
 
3.  Reduce  passenger  transit  time 
(average travel time). 

Use of Outcome Information 

 
Feed into the evaluation of the 
overall China Railways 
development program. 

Intermediate Results 

Intermediate Results Indicators 

Construction of the 
GuiGuang Railway 

 
Progress rate of works and 
procurement of goods. 

Use of Intermediate Results 
Monitoring 

 
Monitoring of implementation 
progress and action plan to 
address possible delays. 

14

Arrangements for results monitoring

Target Values

Data Collection and Reporting

2010

2012

2014

2016(1)

2022

2032

Responsibility

3

3

3

4

15

48

74

MOR

Frequency
and
Reports
Annually

Data
Collection
Instruments
MOR
operating
statistics

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

10

22

27

1,500

1,500

1,500

1,500

330

330

330

Base-
line
2008

Project Outcome
Indicators
(along the rail line
between Guiyang to
Guangzhou)
1. Average number of
pairs of express
passenger trains
operated per day.(2) (3)
2. Average number of
pairs of freight trains
operated per day. (3) (4)
(5)

3. Average travel time
of express passenger
trains (minutes).(2)

(1) Taken as the first full year of operation of GuiGuang Railway.
(2) GuiGuang Railway will reduce the distance between Guiyang and Guangdong along the two existing routes by nearly half. In addition, EMU
passenger trains with maximum operating speed of 200 km/h will operate on the completed GuiGuang Railway.
(3) Standard passenger trains comprise 8 cars and freight trains 50 cars.
(4) Includes through luggage, container, and coupling trains. No direct freight trains are operating between Guiyang and Guangzhou.
(5) Although freight and cargo moves between Guiyang and Guangzhou, there are no freight trains operating directly. Rail cars are attached to and
transferred between other trains. The number reported here are equivalent numbers based upon available data and general knowledge of the area.
Determining intermediate values will be difficult.

15

Performance Indicators

Intermediate Results
Indicators

1. % of civil works
completed (physical
% complete)

2. % of Bank-
financed goods
contracted (by value)

Base-
line
2008

0

0

Target Values

Data Collection and Reporting

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Responsibility

15

35

55

75

90

100

Twice yearly

MOR

Frequency
and Reports

Data
Collection
Instruments
Project
progress
report

0

5

15

25

70

100

16

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 
The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

 

Principal Payment Date 

May 15, 2014 
November 15, 2014 
May 15, 2015 
November 15, 2015 
May 15, 2016 
November 15, 2016 
May 15, 2017 
November 15, 2017 
May 15, 2018 
November 15, 2018 
May 15, 2019 
November 15, 2019 
May 15, 2020 
November 15, 2020 
May 15, 2021 
November 15, 2021 
May 15, 2022 
November 15, 2022 
May 15, 2023 
November 15, 2023 
May 15, 2024 
November 15, 2024 
May 15, 2025 
November 15, 2025 
May 15, 2026 
November 15, 2026 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
1.48% 
1.52% 
1.56% 
1.59% 
1.63% 
1.67% 
1.72% 
1.76% 
1.80% 
1.85% 
1.89% 
1.94% 
1.99% 
2.04% 
2.09% 
2.14% 
2.20% 
2.25% 
2.31% 
2.37% 
2.43% 
2.49% 
2.55% 
2.61% 
2.68% 
2.74% 

17

May 15, 2027 
November 15, 2027 
May 15, 2028 
November 15, 2028 
May 15, 2029 
November 15, 2029 
May 15, 2030 
November 15, 2030 
May 15, 2031 
November 15, 2031 
May 15, 2032 
November 15, 2032 
May 15, 2033 
November 15, 2033 

2.81% 
2.88% 
2.95% 
3.03% 
3.10% 
3.18% 
3.26% 
3.34% 
3.43% 
3.51% 
3.60% 
3.69% 
3.78% 
4.14% 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

2.  

 

 

18

4. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

19

APPENDIX 
 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Displaced  Person”  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter;  (B)  loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (C)  loss  of  income  sources  or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or 
(ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected 
areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  person;  and 
“Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 

“EMDP”  means  the  Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plan  dated  January  24,  2009 
and  duly  adopted  by  the  Borrower  in  respect  of  the Project  and  related  facilities 
with  the  objective  of  avoiding  cultural,  social  and  economic  adverse  effects  on  
ethnic  minorities  caused  or  likely  to  be  caused  by  the  Project,  and  through  a 
process  of  informed  consultation  and  participation,  involving  concerned  ethnic 
minorities in the design and implementation of relevant activities under the Project 
so as to ensure that the benefits received by the ethnic minorities under the Project 
are  in  harmony  with  their  economic,  social  and  cultural  preferences  and  protect 
their customary user rights. 

“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated November 25, 2008 and 
duly  adopted  by  the  Borrower  in  respect  of  the  Project  and  related  facilities, 
including access roads, construction camps and resettlement sites, which plan sets 
out, inter alia: (a) the actions and measures to be taken for mitigating the adverse 
environmental  impacts  resulting  from  the  implementation  of  said  Project  and 
related facilities; (b) the criteria and procedures for developing and implementing 
actions  and  measures,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  mitigating  the  adverse 
environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of activities in locations 
that are not directly identified in the EMP; and (c) administrative and monitoring 
arrangements  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  said  plan,  as  the  same  may  be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 

20

7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 
 
12. 

 
13. 
 
14. 
 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 
 
20. 

“FCTIC”  means  the  Foreign  Capital  and  Technology  Import  Center  of  the 
Ministry of Railways. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through  February  12,  2008)  with the  modifications  set  forth in  Section  II  of  this 
Appendix. 

“Guangdong”  means  the  Guangdong  Province  of  the  Borrower  or  any  successor 
thereto. 

“Guangxi”  means  the  Guangxi  Zhuang  Autonomous  Region  of  the  Borrower  or 
any successor thereto. 

“Guangzhou” means the city of Guangzhou in Guangdong Province. 

“GuiGuang  Railway  Line”  means  the  railway  line  to  be  constructed  under  
Part A.1 of the Project. 

“Guiyang” means the city of Guiyang in Guizhou Province. 

“Guizhou” means the Guizhou Province of the Borrower or any successor thereto. 

“Ministry  of  Railways”  means  the  Ministry  of  Railways  of  the  Borrower  or  any 
successor  thereto  and  for  the  purpose  of  this  Agreement,  the  reference  to  the 
Ministry  of  Railways  shall  include,  inter  alia, specific  reference  to  the  Railway 
Administrations. 

“Preparation  Group”  means  the  GuiGuang  Railway  Company  Preparation  Group 
established by the Ministry of Railways by Resolution dated November 28, 2007. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  dated  February  3, 
2009,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and 
paragraph  1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Provinces” means Guizhou, Guangxi and Guangdong. 

“Railway  Administrations”  mean  the  Chengdu  Railway  Administration,  the 
Guangzhou  Railway  Administration  and  the  Nanning  Railway  Administration 
each of which is established by the Ministry of Railways under its administrative 

21

 
21. 

 
22. 

control  and  responsible  for  the  management,  operation  and  maintenance  of  the 
railway system over an assigned territory of the Borrower and in which a portion 
of the GuiGuang Railway Line will be constructed. 

“RAP” means the resettlement action plan in respect of the Project dated July 2008 
duly adopted by the Borrower and the Ministry of Railways, which plan sets out, 
inter  alia:  (a)  the  principles  and  procedures  governing  the  acquisition  of  land 
required for the Project and related facilities, including access roads, construction 
camps  and  resettlement  sites;  (b)  actions  and  measures  for  the  payment  of 
compensation  to  Displaced  Persons  and  for  their  resettlement  and  rehabilitation; 
(c)  the  criteria  and  procedures  for  developing  and  implementing  actions  and 
measures,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  mitigating  the  adverse  social  impacts 
resulting  from  the  implementation  of  activities  in  locations  that  are  not  directly 
identified  in  the  RAP;  and  (d)  reporting  and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure 
compliance with said plan, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank. 

“RAP  Arrangements”  means  collectively  the  arrangement  dated  November  6, 
2008,  entered  into  between  the  Preparation  Group  on  behalf  of  the  Ministry  of 
Railways  and  Guizhou;  the  arrangement  dated  November  7,  2008,  entered  into 
between  the  Preparation  Group  on  behalf  of  the  Ministry  of  Railways  and 
Guangxi;  and  the  arrangement  dated  February  4,  2009,  entered  into  between  the 
Preparation Group on behalf of the Ministry of Railways and Foshan Municipality 
and  Zhaoqing  Municipality  of  Guangdong  (Municipalities)  for  the  purpose  of 
causing  the  RAP  to  be  carried  out  by  the  respective  Province/Municipality  in 
accordance with paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; the 
RAP Arrangements include the letter dated February 19, 2009, from the Ministry 
of  Railways  authorizing 
the  RAP 
the  Preparation  Group 
Arrangements with the relevant Provinces/Municipalities. 

to  enter 

into 

 
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
 

Paragraph (1) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank 
…. 
(1) 
Ineligibility.  The  Bank  or  the  Association  has  declared  the  Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive  proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or 
otherwise  to  participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project 
financed  in  whole  or  in  part  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a 
determination  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project 

22

Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”  

 
2. 

 

