CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7777-DO 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Health Sector Reform Project – Second Phase (PARSS2)) 
 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 

between 
 

and 
 

Dated October 30, 2009  

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN NUMBER 7777-DO 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  October  30,  2009,  between  DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC  (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  thirty  million  and  five  hundred  thousand  Dollars 
($30,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement 
(“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through CERSS 
and Parts B and D through MOH in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the 
Borrower has retained a procurement specialist at DDEI with qualifications and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 

 
4.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, 
but  in  no  case  later  than  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on March 17, 2011. 

 

 

 

 

 

-2- 

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretario de Estado de Hacienda.

5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
 

 

 

 
Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda  
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 

Tel:  

 

 

Facsimile: 

(809) 687-5131  
 

(809) 688-8838 

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 

-3- 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States  of  America,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 

By /s/ Roberto Saladín Selín 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 

Authorized Representative 

 

-4- 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objectives of the Project are to improve: (i) the capacity of the Borrower’s RHSs to 
deliver in a timely fashion quality services known to improve the health of mothers, children and 
people with chronic conditions by public providers at the first level of care; and (ii) health system 
responsiveness,  defined  as  the  institutional  capacity  of  public  sector  health  organizations  to 
conduct  strategic  purchasing  of  health  care  services  and  goods  and  to  respond  to  public  health 
emergencies. 
 
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: Introduction of a Results-Based Financing Mechanism for the First-Level of Care in RHS

Financing  of  Capitation  Transfers  to  Eligible  RHSs  to  help  ensure  access  by  Eligible 
Beneficiaries to a package of basic ambulatory primary health care services (Basic FHI 
Services Package).  

 
Part B: Strengthening  of  the  MOH’s  Capacity  to  Improve  and  Monitor  Health  System 

Responsiveness While Fostering Transparency and Accountability 

Strengthening  of  MOH’s  strategic  planning  and  evaluation  capacity  to  improve 
transparency  and  accountability  with  an  emphasis  on  improving  health  system 
responsiveness,  through,  inter  alia: (i)  capacity  building  activities  for  the  MOH  to 
exercise its stewardship role under the Health Sector Reform Laws by: (A) financing the 
organizational  changes  required  by  the  Health  Sector  Reform  Laws  (including  the 
decentralization  of  the  RHSs);  and  (B)  strengthening  and  ensuring  the  continuity  of 
health  promotion  and  prevention  interventions,  public  health  emergency  preparedness, 
and  the  epidemiologic  surveillance  system;  (ii)  the  improvement  of  policies  and 
information  collection  mechanisms  regarding  the  primary  health  care  level  (including 
inpatient care) and the provision of support for the dissemination activities carried out by 
the  MOH’s  Office  of  Access  to  Public  Information  (Oficina  de  Acceso  Público  a  la 
Información); (iii) the provision of support for the preparation of the MOH’s second ten-
year  health  sector  plan;  (iv)  assistance  in  connection  with  the  monitoring  and 
implementation of the Borrower’s new biomedical waste management regulations; (v) the 
preparation of key studies and household surveys necessary for the next demographic and 
health  survey  to  be  prepared  by  the  MOH;  and  (vi)  the  strengthening  of  the  DDEI 
(including through the financing of the incremental Operating Costs of the PIU at DDEI). 

Strengthening of MOH’s and the RHSs’ existing monitoring, information and evaluation 
systems for results-based financing through, inter alia: (i) capacity building activities for 
the  MOH’s  National  Office  for  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  (Unidad  de  Monitoreo  y 
Evaluación de la DDEI); (ii) the development of a specific information module on formal 
assignments and service delivery at the first level of care in the RHSs; and (iii) activities 
oriented  to  the  incorporation  of  patient  satisfaction  and  social  audits  into  the  Results 
Monitoring Indicators. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

-5- 

Part C: Improving the Quality of Public Spending on Health Care Goods and Services

1. 

 
2. 

3. 

Strengthening of public sector planning, procurement, and distribution of medicines and 
other  medical  inputs  by  PROMESE/CAL,  with  an  emphasis  on  improving  monitoring 
and evaluation as well as access by the poor to quality medicines at the first level of care, 
through:  (i)  the  provision  of  technical  assistance;  (ii)  the  carrying  out  of  Training;  and 
(iii) the financing of goods (e.g., software), equipment and Non-Consultant Services. 

Strengthening of the institutional capacity of NHI and other key stakeholders (including 
MEPD and MOF) to consolidate and expand the subsidized regime for the provision of 
health insurance, through: (i) the provision of technical assistance; (ii) the carrying out of 
Training;  and  (iii)  the  financing  of  equipment  and  other  goods,  consulting  and  Non-
Consultant Services, and Operating Costs. 
 
Support  for  the  overall  coordination  of  the  Project,  including  the  financing  of:  (i)  the 
financial  audits  of  the  Project;  (ii)  Operating  Costs  under  Parts  A  and  C  of  the  Project 
(including NHI’s Operating Costs) for the implementation of those activities; and (iii) the 
development and execution of external audits to ensure that the services rendered under 
Part A of the Project are adequately delivered and the reported levels of achieved results 
are accurate and verifiable. 

Part D: Support for Response to Public Health Emergencies

Strengthening  of  the  MOH’s  capacity  to  coordinate  and  implement  interventions  to 
ensure  a  swift  and  efficient  response  by  the  health  system  to  Health  Emergencies 
involving major challenges to the public health (including the influenza virus A/H1N1), 
through the financing of, inter alia, educational and communication campaigns, training 
for  emergency  preparedness,  Operating  Costs  for  strengthening  epidemiological 
surveillance, as well as medicines, vaccines, and other medical inputs such as laboratory 
reagents and masks. 

 

 

-6- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

Section I. 

A. 

1. 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

Not  later  than  30  days  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  establish,  and 
thereafter maintain during the implementation of the Project, the following committees, 
each  of  them  with  a  mandate,  terms  of  reference  and  composition  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank: 

a  Project  Oversight  Committee  (Comité  Directivo  de  Proyecto) comprising  the 
Borrower’s  Minister  of  Health,  Minister  of  Economy,  Planning  and 
Development,  Director  of  NHI,  Director  of  PROMESE/CAL,  and  Director  of 
CERSS,  responsible  for  overseeing  overall  Project  implementation,  approving 
Project  priorities  and  decisions,  and  the  Project’s  annual  Results  Monitoring 
Indicators; and 

a  Results-based  Financing  Committee  (Comité  de  Financiamiento  por 
Resultados) comprising  representatives  of  MOH,  MEPD,  NHI,  and  the  PCU, 
responsible  for  overseeing  the  day-to-day  implementation  of  the  results-based 
financing  to  the  Eligible  RHSs,  as  well  as  for  providing  technical  advice  and 
inter-institutional coordination needed for the appropriate implementation of Part 
A and other related activities under Parts B and C of the Project. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  during  the  implementation  of  the  Project  the  following 
units, each of them consisting of staff having experience and qualifications satisfactory at 
all times to the Bank: 

a  PCU  within  CERSS  responsible  for:  (i)  overall  Project  coordination;  and  (ii) 
implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, with the assistance of NHI; and 

a  PIU  within  DDEI  at  MOH,  responsible  for  the  management  coordination, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Parts B and D of the Project. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  MOH,  MEPD,  CERSS,  NHI  and  PROMESE/CAL 
operate  during  the  implementation  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Inter-
Institutional  Agreement  dated  July  30,  2009,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  the  accelerated 
implementation  of  Health Sector  Reform  Laws  and the  introduction of  mechanisms  for 
improved results-based financing and accountability. 

Implementation  of  Capitation  Transfers  to  Eligible  RHSs  under  Part  A  of  the 
Project 

For purposes of implementing Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MOH 
and CERSS and in coordination with the NHI: 

3. 

B. 

 
1. 

 

-7- 

(a) 

not  later  than  60  days  after  the  Effective  Date,  enter  into  annual  Performance 
Agreements  with  each  Eligible  RHS  participating  in  the  Project,  in  a  form  and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which agreement shall include, inter alia, the 
following provisions: 

 

(i) 

The Eligible RHS’s obligation to: 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

carry  out  the  Performance  Agreement  and  meet  the  targets 
against  Results  Monitoring  Indicators  specified  or  referred  to 
therein; 

ensure, under the Capitation Transfers payment mechanism, that 
only  services  related  to  the  delivery  of  the  Basic  FHI  Services 
Package are being paid for; 

keep  records  and  accounts  of  expenditures  incurred  for  the 
delivery of the Basic FHI Services Package; 

undertake  selected  data  collection  activities  relevant  to  the 
maintenance  and  update  of  the  monitoring  and  information 
system  for  the  Project,  with  a  view  to  generate  information 
pertinent to the implementation of Part A of the Project; and 

(E) 

comply with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

(ii) 

(iii)  

The technical aspects of the Capitation Transfers and the delivery of the 
Basic  FHI  Services  Package,  including:  (A)  the  financing  mechanisms 
for the delivery of the Basic FHI Services Package in the corresponding 
Eligible  RHS;  (B)  the  annual  Results  Monitoring  Indicators;  and  (C) 
annual operational plans for implementation of the Project, all on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  parties’  obligation  to  exercise  their  rights  and  carry  out  their 
obligations  under  each  Performance  Agreement  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes  of  the  Loan,  and  in  compliance  with  the  terms  of  this 
Agreement and the Operational Manual. 

(iv) 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through MOH, 
shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  repeal,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to 
enforce any Performance Agreement or any provision thereof. 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  through  MOH,  that  the  annual  Performance 
Agreements for the Project: (i) follow the model form included in the Operational 
Manual; and (ii) are submitted to the Bank for their prior review and approval. 

2. 

The Borrower, through the PCU, prior to a request for financing of Capitation Transfers, 
shall: (a) establish a separate Capitation Transfer Fund Account; and (b) ensure that all 
amounts deposited in the Capitation Transfer Fund Account are used exclusively to make 

 

-8- 

payments  for  ensuring  access  to  the  Basic  FHI  Services  Package  to  Eligible 
Beneficiaries. 

3. 

The Borrower, through the PCU, with the assistance of the NHI, shall, pursuant to each 
Performance Agreement:  

(a) 

make Capitation Transfers available to Eligible RHSs in accordance with detailed 
provisions, procedures, sequencing and timing  in relation thereto set forth in  the 
Operational Manual and the respective Performance Agreement, and to include, 
inter alia, the following requirements: 

(i) 

 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

During a period ending eight months after a first request for withdrawal 
shall have been made by the Borrower out of Category 1 of the table set 
forth in Section IV. A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
through the PCU, shall, no later than ten days thereof, proceed to make 
available  100%  of  the  Capitation  Transfers  in  respect  of  Eligible 
Beneficiaries after validation is made by NHI of the estimated number of 
Eligible  Beneficiaries  in  each  of  the  Borrower’s  participating  RHS.  No 
later  than  four  months  from  the  end  of  the  above  eight-month  period, 
NHI  shall  reconcile  such  estimates  against  the  certified  number  of 
Eligible Beneficiaries and make any necessary adjustments in subsequent 
Capitation Transfers to compensate for any difference. 

Thereafter,  the  Capitation  Transfers  shall  be  made  available  to  the 
Eligible RHS in two installments. The first such installment shall be 50% 
of the total  amount of the Capitation Transfer,  paid  on  a  monthly  basis 
upon  certification  and  validation  by  NHI  of  a  registry  of  eligible 
beneficiaries sent by the Eligible RHS for the corresponding month. The 
second installment for an amount up to the remaining 50% thereof, shall 
be  paid  every  four  months  upon  verification  by  NHI  of  the  Eligible 
RHS’s  performance  against  agreed  targets  from  the  Results  Monitoring 
Indicators, all as set forth in the Operational Manual and the Performance 
Agreements.  

The  certification  and  validation  of  the  estimated  number  of  Eligible 
Beneficiaries (including during the initial eight-month period referred to 
in  item  (i),  above)  and  of  Eligible  RHS’s  performance  against  agreed 
targets  from  the  Results  Monitoring  Indicators  shall  be  made  by  NHI 
through  the  use  of  independent  external  technical  audits  to  run 
concurrently with the implementation of the relevant activities under Part 
A of the  Project  and  to  be  carried  out  by  auditors    appointed  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement  and  pursuant  to  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
such audit reports to be furnished to the Bank within 30 days following 
the last audited period of four months. 

verify and report, through the use of financial audits to be carried out by 
independent  auditors  appointed  in  accordance  with  Section  III  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  pursuant  to  terms  of  reference 

 

(b) 

(i) 

 

-9- 

 

 

 

(c) 

previously  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  as  further  specified  in  the 
Operational Manual, that the Capitation Transfers have been used for the 
purposes intended; 

(ii) 

ensure,  as  part  of  such  audits,  that  the  flow  of  funds  in  respect  of  the 
Capitation Transfers is in compliance with the relevant provisions of the 
Operational Manual and that the per capita amount used to calculate the 
Capitation  Transfers  is  not  higher  than  the  actual  cost  of  offering  the 
Basic  FHI  Services  Package  (whether  Eligible  Beneficiaries  use  such 
services or not); and 

(iii) 

ensure that the ensuing reports are furnished to the Bank not later than 4 
months after the end of each Fiscal Year; and 

 
ensure  that,  under  each  budget  proposal  to  its  legislature  for  the  corresponding 
year  during  Project  implementation,  adequate  arrangements  are  made  by  the 
Borrower  to  gradually  assume  a  portion  of  the  costs  related  to  the  Capitation 
Transfers  which  are  financed  on  a  declining  basis  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan, as set forth in Category 1 of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  PCU,  the  MOH  and  NHI,  shall  ensure  that:  (a)  annual 
reviews  of  selected  activities  of  Project  implementation  described  in  the  Operational 
Manual,  including  of  the Capitation Transfers  mechanism,  the  menu  of  services  of  the 
Basic  FHI  Services  Package  and  the  Results  Monitoring  Indicators,  are  carried  out 
jointly with the Bank; and (b) the implementation of the Project is subsequently carried 
out applying the views and recommendations of the Bank in that respect. 
 
Operational Manual 

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  project in  accordance  with  a  manual (the  Operational 
Manual),  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the  rules,  methods,  guidelines, 
standard  documents  and    procedures  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  relevant  parts  of  the 
Project, including the following: 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

the  detailed  description  of  Project  implementation  activities  and  the 
detailed  institutional  arrangements  of  the  Project,  including  the  Inter-
Institutional Agreement; 
 
Annex 1 to the Aide Memoire signed by the Borrower and the Bank on 
June 26, 2009; 

(A) the criteria, means of determining the per capita cost, detailed rules 
and  procedures  for  Capitation  Transfers  and  the  delivery  of  the  Basic 
FHI  Services  Package  by  the  Eligible  RHSs  under  Performance 
Agreements  to  be  entered  with  MOH  and  CERSS;  (B)  details  of  the 
contents and procedures for the carrying out of all financial and technical 
audits  as  well  as  (once  a  methodology  is  developed  during  Project 
implementation)  social  audits  related  to  the  delivery  of  the  Basic  FHI 

-10- 

 
2. 

C. 

1. 

Services Package; and (C) a detailed description of all the services under 
the Basic FHI Services Package; 

a model form for the annual Performance Agreements; 

the  Project  administrative,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting,  financial 
(including  cash  flow  aspects  in  relation  thereto),  procurement  and 
statements  of 
disbursement  procedures 
expenditures and all pertinent standard documents and model contracts in 
relation thereto);  

customized 

(including 

the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, including all 
environmental,  physical,  social  and  information  technology  related 
aspects in relation thereto; and 

the Results Monitoring Indicators for the Project. 

(iv) 
 
(v) 

(vi) 

 
(vii) 
 

In  the  event  that  any  provision  of  the  Operational  Manual  shall  conflict  with  this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
written consent. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Anti-Corruption 

Other Covenants 

In  the  case  that  by  no  later  than  two  years  and  six  months  after  the  Effective  Date  a 
Health  Emergency  has  not  occurred  and/or  the  Bank  has  not  provided  its  written  no 
objection  for  the  disbursement  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  Part  D  of  the 
Project, the resources allocated to Part D of the Project may be used at the request of the 
Borrower  to  finance  activities  under  Part  A,  B,  or  C  of  the  Project.  Not  later  than  two 
months from that date, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its approval, a proposal 
of how the resources under Part D of the Project will be allocated. 
 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower, through the PCU at CERSS, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank and set 
forth  in  the  Operational  Manual.    Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  four 
months, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  

 

 

2. 

3. 

 
D. 

 

E. 

1. 

A. 
 
1. 

 

 

-11- 

2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
B. 

1. 

For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be  furnished  to  the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall, 
through the PCU and the PIU, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of a four month period,  interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the four month period, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the 
end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

The  Capitation  Transfers  shall  not  be  subject  to  the  Procurement  and  Consultant 
Guidelines. 

Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods and Non-Consultant Services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below, goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

 

-12- 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-Consultant  Services. The 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-Consultant Services.  The 
Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances  under  which  such  methods  may  be 
used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget  
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 

 

-13- 

 

the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

 

Category 

(1) Capitation Transfers under 
Part A of the Project 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

14,523,750 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

an 

amount 

disbursements 
until 
100% 
this  category  have 
under 
reached 
of 
US$1,350,000; 80% until such 
disbursements have reached an 
amount 
of  US$3,405,000; 
70%  until  such  disbursements 
have  reached  an  amount  of 
60% 
US$7,380,000; 
thereafter. 

and 

(2)  Goods,  Non-consultant 
consultants’ 
Services, 
services, 
and 
Operating  Costs under Part B 
of the Project 

Training 

(3)  Goods,  Non-consultant 
Services,  consultants’  services 
(including  audits),  Training 
and  Operating    Costs  under 
Part C of the Project 

(4)  Goods,  Non-consultant 
consultants’ 
Services, 
services, 
and 
Operating  Costs under Part D 
of the Project 

Training 

7,000,000 

70% 

8,800,000 

70% 

100,000 

100% 

(5) Front-end Fee 

76,250 

(6)  Premia  for  Interest  Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 

0

TOTAL AMOUNT 

30,500,000 

-14- 

2.03 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 

of 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
this 
Section  2.07 
Agreement 

(c)  of 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made 
under  Category  (4)  for  goods,  Non-Consultant  Services,  consultants’  services,  Training 
and  Operating  Costs  under  Part  D  of  the  Project,  unless  a  Health  Emergency  has  been 
declared by the Borrower through a Ministerial Resolution to be issued by the Minister of 
Health, and the Bank has provided its prior written no objection to the Action Plan to be 
implemented. 

The Closing Date is October 30, 2015. 

B. 
 
1. 

2. 
 

 

-15- 

 

SCHEDULE 3 
 

Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on May 15, 2027. 

-16- 

 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

“Action  Plan”  means  the  operational  and  procurement  plans  to  be  developed  by  the 
Borrower to respond to any Health Emergency. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 

“Basic FHI Services Package” means a package of basic ambulatory primary health care 
services  for  the  first-level  of  care  (as  defined  by  NHI)  provided  under  the  Borrower’s 
Family Health Insurance (Seguro Familiar de Salud) for the enrollees of the subsidized 
regime  (Régimen  Subsidiado) and  delivered  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  to  Eligible 
Beneficiaries in Eligible RHSs, as further specified in the Operational Manual. 
 
“Capitation Transfers” means financial resources transferred by the PCU at CERSS under 
the Project to Eligible RHSs (as hereinafter defined), calculated as the monthly per capita 
amount needed to ensure access by Eligible Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) to the 
Basic FHI Services Package (as hereinafter defined), as further referred to in Section I.B 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Capitation Transfer Fund Account” means the account opened and managed by CERSS 
to receive Capitation Transfers out of the proceeds of the Loan to be disbursed pursuant 
to the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined). 

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“CERSS”  means  the  Borrower’s  Executive  Commission  for  Health  Sector  Reform 
(Comisión  Ejecutiva  para  la  Reforma  del  Sector  Salud),  established  pursuant  to  the 
Borrower’s  Decree  No.  308-97  of  July  10,  1997,  as  amended  to  the  date  of  this 
Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 

“DDEI”  means  the  Borrower’s  Directorate  of  Institutional  Strategic  Development 
(Dirección de Desarrollo Estratégico Institucional), a department within MOH. 

“Eligible Beneficiaries” means any individual from a poor household in the jurisdiction 
of each Eligible RHS and which is eligible to receive the Basic FHI Services Package in 
accordance with the Operational Manual. 

“Eligible RHS” means each RHS (as hereinafter defined) meeting the eligibility criteria 
set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  to  implement  the  activities  under  Part  A  of  the 
Project. 

-17- 

“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting on January 1 until December 
31. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

the  “International  Bank 

“Health Emergency” means a serious and unforeseen public health emergency of national 
or international concern that has been: (i) determined as such in accordance with Annex 
VII of the Operational Manual; and (ii) formally declared by the Borrower’s Minister of 
Health through a Ministerial Resolution, in accordance with the Borrower’s Law 42-01, 
dated March 8, 2001.  

“Health Sector Reform Laws” means the Borrower’s Law 42-01, dated March 8, 2001, 
which established the legal framework for a national health system; and the Borrower’s 
Law 87-01, dated May 9, 2001, which established the legal framework for the Borrower’s 
new social security system. 

“Inter-Institutional  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“MEPD”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Economy,  Planning  and  Development 
(Secretaría de Estado de Economía, Planificación y Desarrollo). 

“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda). 
 
“MOH”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Health  (Secretaría  de  Estado  de  Salud 
Pública y Asistencia Social). 

“NHI”  means  the  Borrower’s  National  Health  Insurance  Agency  (Seguro  Nacional  de 
Salud, SENASA),  established  pursuant  to  Law  87-01  of  the  Borrower,  dated  May  9, 
2001. 

“Non-consultant  Services”  means  services  to  be  contracted  for,  inter  alia, social 
communication  campaigns,  including  surveys  and  outreach  programs  and  information 
technology (IT) connection. 

“Operating  Costs”  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  on  account  of  Project 
implementation,  including  office  equipment  and  supplies,  vehicle  operation  and 
maintenance,  insurance  costs,  office  administration  costs,  utilities,  travel,  per  diem  and 
supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted employees. 

“Operational Manual”  means  the  manual  dated  August  5,  2009, approved  by  the  Bank, 
and  referred  to  in  Section  I.C  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be 
amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written consent. 

12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 

 

 

-18- 

 

24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 
31. 

 
32. 

 
33. 

“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit established within CERSS and responsible 
for the implementation  of Parts  A  and  C  of the  Project,  as  further  described  in Section 
I.A.2.(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“PIU” means the Project Implementing Unit established within DDEI and responsible for 
the  implementation  of  Parts  B  and  D  of  the  Project,  as  further  described  in  Section 
I.A.2.(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Performance  Agreement”  means  an  agreement  entered  into  annually  among  MOH, 
CERSS  and  an  Eligible  RHS  for  the  delivery  of  the  Basic  FHI  Services  Package  to 
Eligible  Beneficiaries  under  Part  A  of  the  Project,  as  referred  to  in  Section  I.B.1  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated 
August  5,  2009  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Program”  means  the  Borrower’s  Programa  de  Apoyo  al  Sector  Salud  (PARSS),  a 
program designed to reform the Borrower’s health sector and set forth or referred to in 
the letter dated April 9, 2003 from the Borrower to the Bank. 

“PROMESE/CAL” means the Borrower’s Program of Supply of Essential Medicines and 
Office  for  Logistical  Support  (Programa  de  Medicamentos  Esenciales  y Central  de 
Abastecimiento  y  Logística),  established  as  an  entity  dependent  from  the  Presidency  of 
the Republic and responsible for the purchase and distribution of medicines, pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree No.991-00 of October 18, 2000. 

“Results  Monitoring  Indicators”  means  the  list  of  ten  indicators  included  in  the 
Operational  Manual  which  shall  be  included  in  each  Performance  Agreement,  together 
with the agreed targets, in order to determine the percentage of each Capitation Transfer 
to be made by the Borrower and disbursed by the Bank. 

“RHS” means a Regional Health Service (Servicio Regional de Salud), a regional public 
sector network of health care providers which include health centers and clinics in charge 
of providing basic health services in the Borrower’s territory. 

“Training” means: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred 
by  trainers  and  trainees  in  connection  with  their  training  and  by  community  health 
workers; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 

-19- 

1. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 2.05. Eligible Expenditures 
 
(a)  The payment for the financing of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services or 
Capitation Transfers required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  and  procured,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Legal 
Agreements;” 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 

(a) 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 

 

 

 
(b) 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, to read as 
follows: 

“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an amount of 
the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  that  accrues  interest  at  a  variable  rate  during  the 
Conversion  Period,  the  variable rate  of  interest applicable  to such  amount  shall 
be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or such other base rate as may be 
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for the Approved Currency; plus (B) the 
spread to LIBOR or to such other base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the 
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the 
Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 

 
2. 

 

 

 

-20- 

