CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7814-MX 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Economic Policies in Response to the Global Crisis Development Policy Loan) 
 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated December 3, 2009  

LOAN NUMBER 7814-MX 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement  dated  December  3,  2009,  entered  into  between  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES 
(“Borrower”) represented by its signatory on page 5 of this Agreement and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of 
providing  financing  in support  of  the  Program  (as defined in the  Appendix to  this  Agreement).  
The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which 
the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I  of 
Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an  appropriate  macro-
economic policy framework.   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth in the 
table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program), 
shall  be  used  in  conformity  with  the  requirements  of  the  Borrower’s  income,  budgetary  and 
public  debt  laws  and  the terms  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby  agree  as 
follows: 

 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  billion  five  hundred  and  three  million  seven 
hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($1,503,750,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy 
framework  and  its  satisfactory  implementation  of  the  Program,  the  Borrower  may 
withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan in  accordance  with  Section  II  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement.  The Borrower’s representative for purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are the Director General of BANSEFI, or 
the  Director  General  Adjunto  de  Banca  Institucional  of BANSEFI  or  any  person  or 
persons whom such representatives shall jointly or severally designate in writing. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

(0.25%).  

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions 
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of  this  Article  II  as  the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 

end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

 

-2- 

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation  that  would  have 
the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the  Program  or  any  action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement. 

The  Borrower,  through  SHCP,  shall  enter  into  a  contract  (Contrato  de 
Mandato) among SHCP and BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 

(i) 

BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the  Loan,  meaning  that,  inter  alia, BANSEFI  agrees  to  represent  the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications  to  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  sufficient  to  justify 
disbursement  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  of  Loan  proceeds  in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 

(ii) 

the  Borrower,  through  SHCP,  shall  cooperate  fully  with  BANSEFI  to 
ensure  that  BANSEFI  is  able  to  comply  with  all  of  BANSEFI’s 
obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 

The  Borrower,  through  SHCP,  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its 
obligations  under  the  Contrato  de  Mandato  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between the terms 
of  the  Contrato  de  Mandato  and  those  of  this  Agreement,  the  terms  of  this 
Agreement shall prevail. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 

The  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy  framework  has,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 

3.02. 

 
(a)  
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-3- 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

(c) 

An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the 

Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto. 
 

5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower (in its 
legal opinion) and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued 
by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has 
been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and  delivered  on  behalf  of,  the 
Borrower  and  BANSEFI  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  BANSEFI  in 
accordance with the Contrato de Mandato’s terms. 

 
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan  which  expire  on  May  24, 
2011. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s representative is the 

Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. 

the  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of 

the  General 

 
6.02.  The  Borrower’s  Address  for 
 
 

Conditions is: 

Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
Palacio Nacional 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 

Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 

248423(MCI) or 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

-4- 

 

Washington, D.C. 
 

 64145(MCI) 

AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES 

By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 

Authorized Representative 

-5- 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1.  
The Borrower has implemented countercyclical fiscal stimulus measures during the first 
semester of 2009, as demonstrated by: (i) an increase, in real terms, of the Current Spending by 
5.4  percent;  and  (ii)  an  increase,  in  real  terms,  of  the  Induced  Physical  Capital  Investment 
Spending by 27.7 percent, both increases as determined by comparing the Current Spending and 
the Induced Physical Capital Investment Spending incurred between January 1, 2008 and June 30, 
2008, and the Current Spending and the Induced Physical Capital Investment Spending incurred 
between January 1, 2009 and June 30, 2009. 
 
2.  
The  Borrower  has  submitted  to  Congress  an  economic  program  for  fiscal  year  2010 
(programa  económico  para  el  ejercicio  fiscal  2010) on September  8,  2009,  consisting  of  the 
general criteria for economic policy, the proposed revenue law for fiscal year 2010, the proposed 
budget decree for fiscal year 2010, and various tax and fiscal proposals.  Said economic program 
includes: 
 

the  creation  of  new  taxes  and  modification  of  existing  taxes  (including  an 
increase in tax rates); and 

a temporary deficit and the use of non-recurrent revenues, including withdrawals 
from stabilization funds, in order to compensate the temporary shortfall in public 
sector  revenue,  all  of  this,  in  accordance  with  the  Fiscal  Responsibility  and 
Budget Law. 

 
The  Borrower  has  issued  the  General  Governmental  Accounting  Law  to  harmonize 
3.  
accounting  standards  among  the  federal,  state  and  municipal  levels  of  the  executive  branch  of 
government. 

The  Borrower  has  enhanced  consumer  protection,  access  to  finance  and  market 

4.  
transparency by:  
 

amending the Law for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services 
to expand the regulatory and supervisory capacities of CONDUSEF;  

amending  Article  46  Bis  1  of  the  Credit  Institutions  Law  to  facilitate  the 
provision  of  banking  services  by  third  parties  subcontracted  by  a  banking 
institution  authorized  to  do  so  by  the  CNBV  (as  said  Article  46  Bis  1  was 
amended on June 25, 2009); and  

amending fraction VI Bis of article 104 of the Securities Market Law requiring 
issuers  to  provide  information  to  the  CNBV  and  to  relevant  stock  exchanges 
about  the  issuer  derivative  positions  and  possible  contingencies  that  said 
derivative positions imply for the relevant issuer’s financial situation. 

-6- 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

5.  
The  Borrower  has  amended  its  Credit  Institutions  Law  on  May  6,  2009  in  order  to 
enhance  the  transparency  and  impact  of  the  Borrower’s  state-owned  development  financial 
institutions.  Among other provisions, said amendment establishes that:  
 

 state-owned  development  financial 
institutions  shall  publish  monitoring 
indicators that evaluate the services provided by the relevant institution (Art. 31 
of the Credit Institutions Law, as said article was amended on May 6, 2009), and  

 SHCP shall annually carry out and publish two evaluations (in which at least two 
academic  institutions  need  to  participate)  of  said  state-owned  development 
financial institutions (Art. 55 Bis 2 of the Credit Institutions Law, as said article 
was amended on May 6, 2009). 

The Borrower has strengthened and enhanced its active labor market policies by: 

improving  the  institutional  set-up  of  the  Borrower’s  Temporary  Employment 
Program  (Programa  de  Empleo  Temporal) by including  the  Borrower’s  Sub-
secretariat  of  Employment  and  Labor  Productivity  (Subsecretaría  de  Empleo  y 
Productividad  Laboral)
in  the  technical  committee  that  coordinates  said 
Temporary Employment Program, and  
 
allowing said Temporary Employment Program to be implemented in urban areas 
in addition to rural areas. 

 
7.  
The Borrower has issued the Decree Amending the Tariff for General Taxes on Imports 
and Exports Law in order to enhance trade, competitiveness and simplification of the Borrower’s 
external  trade  tariff  structure,  by  reducing  the  most-favored-nation  tariffs  on  manufacturing 
imports and increasing the number of duty-free tariff lines in a staged manner, over a five year 
period, starting January 1, 2009. 
 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan  (except  for  amounts  required  to  repay  the 
Front-end Fee and any Premia for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars) is allocated 
in  a  single  tranche,  from  which  the  Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of  the  Loan 
proceeds.   The  allocation of  the  amounts  of  the  Loan  to  this end is  set  out  in  the  table 
below: 

 
6.  

 

A. 

B. 

 

 

-7- 

Allocations

Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

Single Withdrawal Tranche 

1,499,990,625 

Front-end Fee 

Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars (amounts due under section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement) 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

3,759,375 

0

1,503,750,000 

C.

 
Deposit
of 
s
Loan 
Amoun
ts. 
Except 
the 
Bank 
may 
otherwi

as 

se agree:   

 
1. 

 
2.  

 
D. 

E. 
 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower’s  budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with  its  laws  and  shall  not  use  them  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If  the  Bank 
determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 

 

-8- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 
 

The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  in  full  on  November  15, 

2021. 

-9- 

 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 
 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
 

“BANSEFI”  means  Banco  del  Ahorro  Nacional  y  Servicios  Financieros,  S.N.C., a
Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the 
Loan, or other successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
“CNBV” means Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the Borrower’s securities and 
banking supervising and regulatory authority, or any successor thereto acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
“CONDUSEF” means Comisión Nacional para la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios 
de  Servicios  Financieros, the  Borrower’s  National  Commission  for  the  Protection  and 
Defense of Users of Financial Services, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
“Congress” means the Borrower’s legislative branch of government at the federal level. 
 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement. 
 
“Credit Institutions Law” means the Ley de Instituciones de Crédito, the Borrower’s law 
for  credit  institutions,  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  July  18,  1990  and  amended 
through August 13, 2009.  
 
“Current Spending” means the total net spending incurred by the Borrower’s federal level 
of  government,  as  laid  out  in  Annex  1  (Total  Net  Spending  –Gasto  Neto  Total) of the 
Borrower’s Budget Spending Decree (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación), as said 
Budget Spending Decree was published in the Official Gazette on December 13, 2007 (in 
the case of fiscal year 2008) and on November 28, 2008 (in the case of fiscal year 2009). 
 
“Decree Amending the Tariff for General Taxes on Imports and Exports Law” means the 
Decreto  por  el  que  se  modifica  la  Tarifa  de  la  Ley  de  los  Impuestos  Generales  de 
Importación  y  de  Exportación, the  Borrower’s  decree  amending  the  tariff  for  general 
taxes  on  imports  and  exports  law,  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  December  24, 
2008. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 

-10- 

 
Group
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

728 

897  

971  

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 

 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728.43  

897.3 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of  the  Borrower  or  other 
recipient  of  the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient) 
having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  address 
such practices when they occur. 

 
10. 

“Fiscal  Responsibility  and  Budget  Law”  means  the  Ley  Federal  de  Presupuesto  y 
the  Borrower’s  fiscal  responsibility  and  budget  law, 
Responsabilidad  Hacendaria,

-11- 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

 
19. 

the  “International  Bank 

published in the Official Gazette on March 30, 2006 and amended through December 31, 
2008. 
 
“General  Governmental  Accounting  Law”  means  the  Ley  General  de  Contabilidad 
Gubernamental, the  Borrower’s  general  governmental  accounting  law,  published  in  the 
Official Gazette on December 31, 2008. 
 
for  Reconstruction  and 
“General  Conditions”  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
“Induced  Physical  Capital  Investment  Spending”  means  the  total  induced  spending  in 
physical  capital  incurred by  the  Borrower’s federal level  of  government,  as  set  forth in 
the table denominated Induced Investment by the Public Sector (Inversión Impulsada del 
Sector  Público) under  section  2.1.3.1.1  (“Economic  Classification  of  Programmable 
Spending”,  subsection  “Financed  Investment”,  page  47),  of  the  Borrower’s  report  to 
Congress  on  the  economic  situation,  public  finances  and  public  debt  for  the  second 
trimester of 2009.   
(http://www.shcp.gob.mx/FINANZASPUBLICAS/InformeTrimestral/2009/Segundo%20tri
mestre%20de%202009/Informe_Trime_209%20Total.pdf). 
 
“Law for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services” means the Ley de 
Protección  y  Defensa  al  Usuario  de  Servicios  Financieros, the  Borrower’s  law  for  the 
protection and defense of users of financial services, published in the Official Gazette on 
January 18, 1999 and amended by Congress Decree on June 25, 2009. 
 
“Official  Gazette”  means  the  Diario  Oficial  de  la  Federación, the  Borrower’s  official 
gazette. 
 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to mitigate the 
impact  of  the  global  crisis  and  strengthen  the  structural  medium-term  framework  for 
sustainable economic recovery and growth set forth in the letter dated October 20, 2009 
from the Borrower to the Bank, which includes measures implemented by the Borrower 
during  2009  and  the  Borrower’s  economic  program  for  fiscal  year  2010  and  the 
modification  of  several  financial  laws  of  the  Borrower  (as  described  in  Schedule  1, 
Section 1 to this Loan Agreement) declaring the Borrower’s commitment thereto.  
 
“Securities Market Law” means the Ley del Mercado de Valores, the Borrower’s capital 
markets  law,  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  December  30,  2005  and  amended 
through May 6, 2009. 
 
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category 
entitled  “Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 

 

-12- 

 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 

The  last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  above)  is 
modified to read as follows:  

“Section  2.05.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee  and 
Interest 
 

(a) 

If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  such  Loan  Party,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  on  or 
after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to  repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid  charges,  if  any,  on the  advance  as  at  such  date.    The  Bank 
shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and 
shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Sections  5.01  (Project  Execution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial  Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above  and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above)  is 
modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above)  is 
modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of  such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 

-13- 

the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their 
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of 
the purposes of the Loan. 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 

(a) 

 
(b) 
 

 
(c) 
 
(d) 

 

 

 
(e) 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   

“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put, other than to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout  these  General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   

The  term  “Program  Preparation  Advance”  (renamed  as  such  pursuant  to 
subparagraph  8  (d)  above)  is  modified  to  read  “Preparation  Advance”  and  its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 

 
8. 

 

 

-14- 

