CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7785-ID 

Loan Agreement 

(Third Infrastructure Development Policy Loan) 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated October 1, 2009 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  October  1,  2009,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF 
INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  fifty  million  United 
States Dollars (US$250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of    
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

2

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 

2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

 

 

 

(b) 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

3

(c) 

 

 

 

 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program or any action taken under the Program. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists of the  following:    A  situation  has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY  
 
Jakarta   

45799 DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

4

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 
AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA  

By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 

Authorized Representative 

 

written. 
 

 

 

 
 

5

SCHEDULE 1 

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken under the Program

The  Borrower  has  maintained  the  proposed  2010  APBN  allocation  for  national 
infrastructure  of  at  least  thirty  (30%)  over  the  2007  level.  (President’s  budget 
address to Parliament August 3, 2009) 

The Borrower has published on the PLN Website: (i)  the breakdown of the 2008 
PLN  PSO  by  region  and  consumer  category;  and  (ii)  a  forward  three  (3)  year 
PLN  PSO  plan  based  upon  assumptions  and  a  model  shared  and  agreed  by 
MoEMR, MoF, MoSOE and PLN.  

The Borrower has defined a revised program structure, objectives and outputs for 
DGH.  (DGH/BAPPENAS  exchange  of  letters  nos.  4705/Dt.8.2/08/2009  and 
PR.01.02/BP.09/1066/2009) 

The  Borrower  has  approved  guidelines  for  outcome-based  fiscal  incentives  for 
local  governments  to  expand  piped  water  connections  for  poor  households.  
(BAPPENAS/MOF/MPW  Guidelines  of  Water  Fund  Management  FY2010-
2014, August 19, 2009) 

The  Borrower  has  developed  draft  amendments  to  Perpres  67  extending  its 
application  to  projects  of  sub-national  governments  and  ensuring  the  right  to 
terminate  PPP  projects  where  financial  close  and  first  debt  drawdown  are  not 
achieved  within  12  months  of  contract  signing.    (Coordinating  Minister  for 
Economic Affairs Circular No. S-51/M/EKON/08.2009)  

The  Borrower  has  issued  a  Government  Regulation  establishing  the  Guarantee 
Fund. (Government Regulation No. 35/2009) 

The  Borrower,  through  MoF,  has  mobilized  finance  for  the  Indonesia 
Infrastructure Financing Facility. (Founders Agreement, dated June 30, 2009) 

The  Borrower  has  satisfactorily  implemented  the  LWG’s  Action  Plan.    (BPN 
Circular No. 396/ND/DII/VIII/2009)  

The  Borrower  has  introduced  into  the  parliamentary  process  legislative 
amendments  to  improve  the  implementation  and  enforceability  of  the  AMDAL 
process. (Parliament Notice LG.01.03/3613/DPR RI/VI/2009) 

 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 

6

10. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  Ministry  of  Public  Works,  has  established  a 
procurement taskforce in DGH staffed, funded and mandated to provide support 
to  procurement  committees  in  terms  of  advice,  capacity  building,  review  and 
problem resolution. (DGH SK No. 36/KPTS/Db/2009)   

 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. 

 
B. 

 

C. 

 
D. 

2. 

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
repay  the  Preparation  Advance  and  pay  the  Front-end  Fee)  be  withdrawn  in  a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in 
the table below: 

Allocations 

Single Tranche 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in U.S. Dollars) 
250,000,000 
250,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower’s  budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 

7

E. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

F. 

Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2010. 

8

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

1. 

 

Principal Payment Date 

February 15, 2019 
August 15, 2019 
February 15, 2020 
August 15, 2020 
February 15, 2021 
August 15, 2021 
February 15, 2022 
August 15, 2022 
February 15, 2023 
August 15, 2023 
February 15, 2024 
August 15, 2024 
February 15, 2025 
August 15, 2025 
February 15, 2026 
August 15, 2026 
February 15, 2027 
August 15, 2027 
February 15, 2028 
August 15, 2028 
February 15, 2029 
August 15, 2029 
February 15, 2030 
August 15, 2030 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 

9

3.93 
4.02 
4.12 
4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

February 15, 2031 
August 15, 2031 
February 15, 2032 
August 15, 2032 
February 15, 2033 
August 15, 2033 
February 15, 2034 

2.  

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

10 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

4. 

 
5. 

 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 
 

11 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

the  required 

“AMDAL”  means  Analisis  Mengenai  Dampak  Lingkungan,
environmental impact assessment under Indonesia law. 
 
“APBN”  means  Anggaran  Pendapatan  dan  Belanja  Negara, the  Borrower’s 
national government budget for a Fiscal Year. 
 
“BAPPENAS”  means  Badan  Perencanaan  Pembangunan  Nasional, 
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
“BPN”  means  Badan  Pertanahan  Nasional,
Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Coordinating  Ministry 
Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, and any successor thereto. 
 
“DGH”  means  the  Directorate  General  of  Highways  of  the  MoPW,  and  any 
successor thereto. 

for  Economic  Affairs”  means 

the  Borrower’s  National  Land 

the  Borrower’s 

the 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group
112 
121 

Sub-group 
 
 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 

12 

 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728.43  

897.3 

122 

525 

667 

718  

728 

897  

971  

Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

 

 

 

8. 

 
9. 

10. 

 
11. 

12. 

13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

 
19. 

13 

“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“Government Regulation” means a Peraturan Pemerintah Republik Indonesia, a 
government regulation signed by the President of Indonesia. 

“Guarantee  Fund”  means  the  institution  to  be  established  by  the  Borrower  to 
facilitate  the  provision  of  guarantees  by  the  Borrower  against  agreed  risks  in 
public-private partnership projects. 
 
“Indonesia Infrastructure Financing Facility” means the fund to be established by 
the Borrower to mobilize local currency financing for public-private partnership 
infrastructure  projects,  to  which  the  Bank  intends  to  provide  financing  under 
Loan No. 7731-ID. 
 
 “LWG’s  Action  Plan”  means  the  action  plan  of  the  Land  Working  Group,  an 
inter-ministerial working group established on October 23, 2007 by Decree of the 
Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs No. Kep-49/M.EKON/10/2007, and 
comprising  representatives  of  BPN,  the  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Economic 
Affairs, the MoH, the MoHA, MoPW and BAPPENAS. 

“MoEMR”  means  the  Ministry  of  Energy  and  Mineral  Resources  of  the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

“MoF”  means  the  Ministry  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
“MoH”  means  the  Ministry  of  Housing  of  the  Borrower,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
“MoHA”  means  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  of  the  Borrower,  and  any 
successor thereto. 
 
“MoPW”  means  the  Ministry  of  Public  Works  of  the  Borrower,  and  any 
successor thereto. 

“MoSOE” means the Ministry of State-Owned Enterprises of the Borrower, and 
any successor thereto. 
 

14 

 

20. 
 
21. 

22. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

25. 
 
26. 

27. 

28. 

 
29. 

“Parliament” means the parliament of the Republic of Indonesia. 

“Perpres”  means  a  Peraturan  Presiden, a regulation  of  the  President  of  the 
Borrower. 
 
“Perpres  67”  means  Presidential  Regulation  No.  67  of  2005  issued  by  the 
President of the Borrower regulating public-private partnership in infrastructure 
provision. 

“PLN”  means  PT  Perusahaan  Listrik  Negara,
electricity company. 

the  Borrower’s  state-owned 

“PLN  PSO”  means  a  public  service  obligation  subsidy  being  provided  by  the 
Borrower  to  PLN  to  make  up  PLN’s  financial  shortfall  due  to  rising  cost  of 
supply and inadequate tariffs. 
 
“PLN Website” means the website maintained by PLN at www.pln.co.id. 

“PPP”  means  public-private  partnership,  a  partnership  or  other  arrangement 
between a private sector entity and a public sector entity. 
 
“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred  to in  the  letter  dated  August  24,  2009,  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 
 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

“SK” means Surat Keputusan, a letter of decree. 
 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

1.  The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 

Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

 

 

2. 

3. 

 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 

15 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  

“Section  2.05.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest 
 

(a) 

If  the  Loan  Agreement  provides  for  the  repayment  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  of  an  advance  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  on  or  after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to 
repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding  balance  of  the  advance  as  at  the  date  of 
such  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  and  to  pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 

 

 

 
8. 

16 

report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

 

 

