CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7737-ID 

Loan Agreement 

(Health Professional Education Quality Project) 

 

between 
 

and 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated October 1, 2009 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  October  1,  2009,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy seven million eight hundred 
twenty two thousand United States Dollars ($77,822,000), as such amount may 
be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 

2

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end,  the  Borrower shall carry  out  the  Project through  the  DGHE  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following:  the 
Borrower shall have adopted the Project Management Manual acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank. 

 
4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

3

 

 
 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P. O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY  
 
Jakarta 

 
 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

45799   DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 

 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

 

 
 

4

AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first 

above written. 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 

Authorized Representative 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objective of the Project is to strengthen quality assurance policies governing 
the  education of  health professionals in Indonesia through: (i) rationalizing and assuring 
competency  focused  accreditation  of  public  and  private  health  professional  training 
institutions;  (ii)  developing  national  competency  standards  and  testing  procedures  for 
certification and licensing of health professionals; and (iii) building institutional capacity 
to  employ  results  based  grants  for  encouraging  use  of  accreditation  and  certification 
standards in the development of medical school quality. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part 1.  Strengthening Policies and Procedures for School Accreditation. 
 
1.1 

Development  of  Strategic  Framework,  Policies  and  Procedures  for 
Accreditation  of Health Higher  Education  Institutions  by  supporting  DGHE 
in: 
(a)  building  consensus  among  key  stakeholders;  (b)  developing  an 
accreditation  master  plan  in  alignment  with  international  standards;  (c) 
developing,  establishing  and  supporting  operation  and  management  for  an 
independent  national  accreditation  agency  (NAA);  and  (d)  harmonizing 
regulations and policies of DGHE on accreditation. 
 
Development of Standards of Health Education Programs and Standards of 
Competency  by:  (a)  supporting  DGHE  in:    (i)  developing  competence  and 
education  standards  for  nursing  and  midwifery;  (ii)    harmonizing  standards  of 
competence  for  doctors,  dentists,  nurses,  and  midwives;  (iii)  establishing  a 
certification system for clinical instructors; (iv) developing guidelines for clinical 
instructor  training;  (v)  establishing  standards  for  teaching  hospitals  and  other 
clinical training sites; and (vi) supporting a national medical education research 
and  development  function  among  Associations  of  Health  Higher  Education 
Institutions;  and  (b)  (i)  supporting  Associations  of  Health  Higher  Education 
Institutions  in  applying  the  established  standards  of  competency  among 
members;  and (ii) supporting  AIPKI  (one  of  the  Associations  of  Health  Higher 
Education  Institutions)  in  managing  Research  Programs  for  individuals  and/or 
groups on health education and standards of competency. 
 
Development of Accreditation Instruments by supporting BAN-PT and NAA 
(following  its  establishment)  to  develop,  pilot  and  disseminate  accreditation 
instruments  for  medical,  dental,  nursing  and  midwifery  education  through  a 
stakeholder participatory process.  
 
Development  of  a  Pool  of  Assessors  by  supporting  BAN-PT  and  NAA 
(following  its  establishment)  in:  (a)  the  identification  and  development  of  a 

1.2 

1.3 

1.4 

6

1.5 

1.6 

2.1 

 
2.2 

 
2.3 

recruitment  system  for  assessors  in  BAN-PT  and  NAA  for    accreditation;  (b) 
establishing  a  basic  training  program  for  selected  assessors; and  (c)  conducting 
regular refresher training for assessors.  
 
Establishment  of  an  Accountability  System  for  Accreditation  of  Health 
Higher  Education Institutions  by  supporting  DGHE  to develop  a  directory  of 
accreditation status of Health Higher Education Institutions and to publicize the 
directory through the website of the accreditation agency and other mass media.  
 
Improving Data Management to Support the Accreditation System through:  
(a)  supporting  DGHE  to  develop  a  system  to  harmonize  and  streamline  data 
collection  from  Health  Higher  Education  Institutions  and  the  NAA;  and  (b) 
supporting  DGHE  to  provide  capacity  building  to  Health  Higher  Education 
Institutions  for  information  management  and  conducting  self  evaluation  for 
continuous quality improvement.  

 
Part 2.  Certification of Graduates Using National Competency-based Examination.

Establishing an Independent National Agency for Competence Examination 
of  Health  Professionals  through  supporting  DGHE  in:  (a)  developing  the 
concept  for,  establishing  and  supporting  the  operation  and  management  of  an 
independent  examination  body  (NACE  HealthPro)  to  cover  medical,  dental, 
nursing,  and  midwifery  graduate  examinations;  and  (b)  supporting  NACE 
HealthPro  in  managing  Research  Programs  for  Health  Higher  Education 
Institutions and/or individuals therein to conduct policy studies on evaluation. 

Improving  Methodology  and  Management  of  the  National  Competence 
Examination through supporting NACE HealthPro (following its establishment) 
in developing a computer-based examination system and an objective structured 
clinical  examination  system  for  medical,  dental,  nursing  and  midwifery 
examinations,  and  introducing  and  operating  such  systems  in  approximately 
twelve (12) pilot centers at selected Health Higher Education Institutions. 

Developing  an  Item  Banking  Network  System  to  support  the  National 
Competence Examination through support for the NACE HealthPro (following 
its  establishment)  in  developing,  establishing  and  providing  training  to  Health 
Higher  Education  Institutions  and  workshops  on  the  use  of  an  information 
technology-based item bank networking system.  

 
Part 3.  Results-based Financial Assistance Package for Medical Schools. Providing 
FAPs  to  support  implementation  of  competency-based  curriculum,  teacher  and 
staff  training,  improvement  of  learning  facilities,  data  management  capacity, 
student  scholarship  and  Research  Programs  for  Participating  Medical  Schools 
under: (a) Scheme A for leading Participating Medical Schools; (b) Scheme B for 

7

weak  capacity  and  new  Participating  Medical  Schools;  and  (c)  Scheme  C  for 
moderate capacity Participating Medical Schools. 

 
Part 4. Project Management.  Provision of technical advisory services and training, and 
other material support to DGHE to support the management of the Project. 

8

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 

Institutional Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project  the  Steering 
Committee,  established  within  the  DGHE  with  a  mandate,  composition 
(including  representatives  of  BAPPENAS,  MONE,  MOH  and  MOF)  and  terms 
of  reference  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  to  provide  strategic 
direction for the Project.   

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the  Technical 
Committee  established  with  a  mandate,  composition  and  terms  of  reference 
agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  including  representatives  of  the 
BAPPENAS,  MONE,  MOH,  MOF,  KKI,  BAN-PT,  Associations  of  Health 
Higher Education Institutions, and Professional Associations, to assist and advise 
the  CPCU  concerning  technical  implementation  of  the  Project  related  to  their 
professional competencies.   

The Borrower shall ensure that the Director General of Higher Education (or any 
successor designation) of MONE shall act as the Project director, the Director of 
Academic  Affairs  (or  any  successor  designation)  of  DGHE  shall  act  as  the 
Project  Manager,  and  Head  of  Sub-Directorate  of  Curriculum  and  Study 
Programs (or any successor designation) of DGHE shall act as the Vice- Project 
manager.    The  Borrower  shall  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the 
central  Project  coordination  unit  (CPCU),  established  in  the  office  of  the 
Directorate of Academic Affairs of DGHE.  The CPCU shall establish a Project 
secretariat which shall be chaired by a full time executive secretary, supported by 
a person-in-charge  assigned  to  each  Part  of  the  Project,  supported  by  project 
management consultants and comprised of staff whose composition and terms of 
reference shall have agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 

For the purposes of carrying out Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure 
that:  (a)  BHE of DGHE, with the support of the CPCU, shall be responsible for 
establishing  the  guidelines  for  the  FAP  selection  process  and  for  overseeing 
implementation  of  the  FAPs;  and  (b)  each  Participating  Medical  School  shall 
establish, by no later than the date on which it enters into a FAP Agreement and 
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a PIU under the authority of 
the  rector  (or  equivalent  position)  of  the  Participating  Medical  School,  with  a 
mandate, composition and terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank to implement the FAP received by such Participating Medical School. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

9

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  of  the  Steering  Committee,  Technical 
Committee, CPCU and each PIU is provided at all times with adequate funds 
and  other  resources,  and  supported  by  suitably  qualified  and  experienced 
personnel in adequate numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the 
Project. 

Implementation Obligations 

The Borrower shall: 

(a) 

implement  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Management 
Manual,  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  giving  details  of 
guidelines  and  procedures    for  the  implementation,  supervision,  and 
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project,  including:  (i)  institutional 
arrangements; (ii) fiduciary requirements for FAPs; (iii) criteria and time 
schedules for development of work plans for Parts 1 and 2 of the Project; 
(iv) process budget documents (DIPA); (v) reporting, and monitoring and 
financial  management  and  audit 
evaluation, 
procedures  as  set  forth  in  Section  II  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;   
(vi) procurement procedures as set forth in Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement as well as standard procurement documentation; (vii) the 
Better  Governance  Action  Plan;  and  (viii)  eligibility  and  selection 
criteria,  implementation  arrangements  and  terms  and  conditions  for 
agreements  for  Research  Programs  under  Part  1.2(b)(ii)  and  Part 2.1(b) 
of the Program; 

requirements,  and 

(b) 

implement  Part  3  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  FAP  Manual, 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, giving details of guidelines 
and procedures  for the eligibility and selection criteria, implementation 
arrangements,  supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of the FAPs, 
in  accordance  with  Attachment  2  to  this  Schedule  2,  and  where  FAPs 
will  support  Research  Programs,  the  eligibility  and  selection  criteria, 
implementation arrangement and terms and conditions for agreements for 
such Research Programs; and 

(c) 

except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  shall  not 
amend  or  waive  any  provision  of  either  of  the  Project  Management 
Manual or the FAP Manual. 

For the purposes of establishing and providing support to NAA under Part 1.1 of 
the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:  

5. 

 
B. 
 
1. 
 

2. 

 

10 

(a) 

(b) 

NAA  is  established  as  an  independent  entity  with  charter  documents, 
staffing  plan  and  operational  procedures  agreed  between  the  Borrower 
and the Bank; and 
 
the Borrower shall: (i) enter into the NAA Memorandum of Agreement, 
on terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, with 
NAA setting out  the activities that NAA will undertake under the Project 
and  the  requirement  for  the  use  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in 
accordance  with  the  Project  Management  Manual  and  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, including the provisions of Attachment 1 to this 
Schedule  2;  and  (ii)  the  Borrower  shall  not  make  any  proceeds  of  the 
Loan  available  to  NAA  and  shall  not  permit  NAA  to  commence 
activities under Part 1.1 of the Project until the Borrower and NAA have 
entered into such memorandum of agreement. 

For  the  purposes  of  supporting  Associations  of  Health  Higher  Education 
Institutions  under  Part  1.2(b)  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  enter  into  an 
Association  Memorandum  of  Agreement,  on  terms  and  conditions  agreed 
between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  with  each  Association  of  Health  Higher 
Education  Institutions  setting  out  the  activities  that  such  institutions  will 
undertake under the Project and the requirements for the use of the proceeds of 
the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Management  Manual  and  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, including the provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 
2; and (ii) the Borrower shall not make any proceeds of the Loan available to any 
Association  of  Health  Higher  Education  Institutions  and  shall  not  permit  any 
such association to commence activities under Part 1.2(b) of the Project until the 
Borrower  and  such  association  have  entered  into  such  memorandum  of 
agreement. 

For  the  purposes  of  supporting  AIPKI,  one  of  the  Associations  of  Education 
Institutions,  to  conduct  Research  Programs  under  Part  1.2(b)(ii)  of  the  Project, 
and  provided  that  AIPKI  has  entered  into  an  Association  Memorandum  of 
Agreement, (i) AIPKI shall enter into a Research Program Agreement with each  
Researcher  setting  out  the  activities  that  such  Researcher  will  undertake  under 
the  Project  and  the  requirements  for  the  use  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in 
accordance  with  the  Project  Management  Manual  and  the  Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines, including the provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2; and (ii) 
the Borrower shall not make any proceeds of the Loan available to AIPKI for the 
purpose  of  a  Research  Program  until  AIPKI  shall  have  entered into  a  Research 
Program Agreement with the respective Researcher for such Research Program. 

For the purposes of establishing and providing support to NACE HealthPro under 
Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:  

 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 

11 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

NACE  HealthPro  is  established  as  an  independent  entity  with  charter 
documents, staffing plan and operational procedures agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank;  
 
the Borrower shall: (i)  enter into the NACE HealthPro Memorandum of 
Agreement,  on  terms  and  conditions  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and 
the  Bank,  with  NACE  HealthPro  setting  out  the  activities  that  NACE 
HealthPro will undertake under the Project and the requirements for the 
use  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  Project 
Management Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, including the 
provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
not  make  any  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  NACE  HealthPro  and 
shall not permit NACE HealthPro to commence activities under Part 2 of 
the  Project  until  the  Borrower  and  NACE  HealthPro  have  entered  into 
such memorandum of agreement; and 
 
for the  purposes  of  supporting  NACE  HealthPro to  undertake  Research 
Programs  under  Part  2.1(b)  of  the  Project,  and  provided  that  NACE 
HealthPro  has  entered  into  the  NACE  HealthPro  Memorandum  of 
Agreement,  NACE  HealthPro    shall  enter  into  a  Research  Program 
Agreement  with  each  Researcher  setting  out  the  activities  that  such 
Researcher will undertake under the Project and the requirements for the 
use  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  Project 
Management Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, including the 
provisions of Attachment 1 to this Schedule 2; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
not make any proceeds of the Loan available to NACE HealthPro for the 
purpose of a Research Program until NACE HealthPro shall have entered 
into a  Research  Program  Agreement  with  the  respective  Researcher for 
such Research Program. 

For purposes of providing FAPs to Participating Medical Schools under Part 3 of 
the Project, the Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the FAP 
Manual  and  the  terms  and  conditions  for  FAPs  set  out  in  Attachment  2  to  this 
Schedule 2. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Anti-Corruption 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  

 

 
6. 

 
C. 

A. 
 
1. 

12 

Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and submit to the Bank for review and comment, 
by no later than June 30, 2012 (or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower 
may  otherwise  agree  in  writing),  a  draft  mid-term  review  incorporating  the 
results of each Project Report; and (b) by no later than September 30, 2012 (or 
such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree), submit to the 
Bank a final mid-term review having taken into account the comments provided 
by the Bank on mid-term review. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

Goods,  Works  and  Services.
All  civil  works,  goods  and  non-consulting 
services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred 
to  in  Section  I  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the  provisions  of  this 
Section. 

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 

 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

3. 

 
4. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

 

13 

the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions. The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Services.
The 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consulting services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 

Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  modifications  set  forth  in 
Attachment 3 to this Annex 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in    

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
 
(a) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(c) Single Source Selection 

14 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

(d) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

15 

Category* 

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
6,584,000 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes) 
100% 

and 

and 

Training 

Training 

(1) 
workshops, 
incremental  operating  costs,  research 
expenditures  consultants  services  and 
goods under Part 1 of the Project 
 
workshops, 
(2) 
incremental  operating  costs,  research 
expenditures,  consultants  services  and 
goods under Part 2 of the Project 
 
(3)      FAPs for Sub-projects under Part 
3 of the Project 
 
workshops, 
(4) 
incremental operating costs, consultants 
services  and  goods  under Part 4  of  the 
Project 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Training 

and 

12,099,000 

100% 

55,000,000 

100% 

4,139,000 

100% 

77,822,000 

* For the purposes of this table: (i) “training and workshops” means the reasonable costs 
of  expenses  incurred  in  carrying  out  training  and  workshops  for  the  Project,  including 
purchase,  reproduction  and  publication  of  materials,  rental  of  facilities,  course  fees,  and 
travel and subsistence of trainees; (ii) “incremental operating costs” means the reasonable 
costs  of  incremental  expenses  incurred  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  (which 
expenditures  would  not  have  been  incurred  absent  the  Project),  including  fees  for 
assessors  to  conduct  accreditation  under  Part  1.4  of  the  Project,  fees  for    proposal 
reviewer and module development under FAPs, communications costs, travel allowance 
and operational cost for the CPCU, but in all cases excluding salaries of civil servants of 
the  Borrower;  and  (iii)  “research  expenditures”  means  the  reasonable  expenditures 
incurred in the conduct of a Research Program by a  Researcher pursuant to a Research 
Program Agreement. 
 
B. 
 
1. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

(a) 

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 

 

 

 

16 

 

 

(b) 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or   

(c) 

under  Category  3  until  the  Borrower  has  adopted  the  FAP  Manual 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank and has entered into at least one 
FAP Agreement with at least one (1) Participating Medical School. 

 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 

2. 

17 

 

Attachment 1 to Schedule 2 
 
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Agreements Providing for the Use of Proceeds 
of the Loan by Institutions, Associations and Individuals (other than FAPs) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  NAA  Memorandum  of  Agreement,  each 
Association  Memorandum  of  Agreement,  the  NACE  HealthPro  Memorandum  of 
Agreement and each Research Program Agreement shall contain the following terms and 
conditions:   

 
(a)  Positive  List:    (i)  details  of  eligible  activities  and  eligible  expenditures  in 
compliance  with  this  Agreement;  (ii)  details  of  agreed  disbursement 
schedules;  (iii)  if  any  procurement  will  be  undertaken  by  the  recipient  of 
Loan  proceeds  there  under,  procurement  procedures  consistent  with  the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iv) provisions for 
maintaining  a  financial  system  and  preparing  financial  statements  in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Borrower and the  Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures  related to the  proceeds of  the  Loan  and  to  have 
such  financial  statements  audited  in  accordance  with  auditing  standards 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank and to furnish the statements to the 
Borrower and the Bank; (v) the right of the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the activities undertaken pursuant to such agreement, its operations and any 
documents related thereto; (vi) an undertaking on the part of the recipient of 
Loan  proceeds  pursuant  to  such  agreement  to  comply  with  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; (vii) the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate 
the right of the recipient of Loan proceeds pursuant to such agreement to use 
such  proceeds  upon  the  recipient  thereof’s  failure  to  perform  any  of  its 
obligations under such agreement; and  (viii) the undertaking of the recipient 
of proceeds of the Loan to implement all activities there under in accordance 
with  the  Project  Management  Manual  or  the  FAP  Manual  (for  Research 
Programs under Part 3 of the Project), as applicable. 

 

(b)  Negative List:  No proceeds of the Loan shall be used to finance expenditures 
involving or likely to involve: (i) the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous  goods  (including  asbestos,  pesticides  and  herbicides),  arms  or 
drugs; (ii) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of tobacco or 
products  containing  tobacco;  (iii)  activities  within  a  nature  reserve  or  any 
other  area  designated  by  the  Borrower  for  the  management  and/or  the 
protection  of  biodiversity,  except  with  the  prior  written  approval  of  the 
Borrower’s agency responsible for the management and/or protection of such 
area;  (iv)  over-exploitation  of  water  resources  and/or  contamination  of 
domestic  water  supplies;  or  (v)  the  provision  of  goods,  works  or  services, 
directly  or  through  intermediaries,  by  suppliers  or  contractors,  as  the  case 
may be, who have been declared ineligible to participate in the procurement 

 

18 

of any Bank-financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time, as a result of a decision of the Bank’s Sanctions Committee, but only to 
the extent that such sanction remains valid and applicable, according to the 
terms of the decision. 

 

No  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  made  available  to  finance  the  salaries  of 
civil servants of the Borrower. 

 

 

1. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

2. 

 

19 

Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 
 
Terms and Conditions Applicable to FAPs.

FAP Manual. For purposes of providing FAPs to Participating Medical Schools 
for Sub-projects under Part 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 

make  FAPs  available  to  support  implementation  of  competency-based 
curriculum, teacher and staff training, improvement of learning facilities,  
data management capacity, student scholarship and Research Programs;  
 
ensure  that  each  FAP  is  implemented  in  accordance  with  the  FAP 
Manual  as  follows  giving  details  of  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the 
implementation,  supervision,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,  of  Sub-
projects,  including:  (i)  institutional  arrangements;  (ii)  eligibility  and 
selection  criteria  for  Scheme  A  FAPs,  Scheme  B  FAPs  and  Scheme  C 
FAPs, terms and conditions for the applicable type of FAP Agreements, 
and  implementation  obligations  for  the  applicable  type  of  FAPs;  (iii) 
eligibility  and  selection  criteria  for  Research  Programs  under  Scheme 
FAPs; (iv) criteria and time schedules for development of Annual Work 
Plans;  (v)  reporting,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,  requirements,  and 
financial management and audit procedures as set forth in Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (vi) procurement procedures as set forth in 
Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  as  well  as  standard 
procurement  documentation;  and  (vii)  details  of  the  Better  Governance 
Action Plan; and 
 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend or 
waive any provision of the FAP Manual. 
 

Implementation Obligations for FAPs. The Borrower shall ensure that FAPs 
are provided to Participating Medical Schools in compliance with the following 
provisions: 

Schemes.    There  shall  be  three  (3)  FAP  schemes  and  BHE  shall  make 
FAPs available for Sub-projects under each scheme as follows: 
 
(i) 

(A)      Scheme  A  shall  be  made  available  to  such  number  of 
leading  medical  schools  (meeting 
the  requirements 
specified in the FAP Manual) as may be agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank (expected to be 10); provided, 
however, that in order to become a Participating Medical 
School,  each  such  leading  medical  school  shall  agree  to 
assist  a  Participating  Medical  School  that  is  a  weak 
medical  school  or  new  medical  school  under  Scheme  B 

 

20 

(such assistance to be funded out of the FAP provided to 
such Scheme B Participating Medical School).    

 
(B)   The CPCU shall submit a consolidated list of Scheme A 
Medical Schools to the Bank for no objection prior to the 
commencement of any Scheme A FAP.   

 
(C)    Except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  may  otherwise 
agree,  each  Scheme  A  FAP 
shall  not  exceed 
US$1,000,000 equivalent and shall cover activities over a 
period  of no  more than  three (3)  years;  provided  that  no 
FAP may extend beyond the Closing Date.    

 
(D)    The terms and conditions for the use by each Scheme A 
Participating Medical School of its respective Scheme A 
FAP,  including  the  mechanism  for  selecting  the  partner 
Scheme  B  Participating  Medical School, shall be set out 
in its respective FAP Agreement on terms and conditions 
acceptable  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  in  accordance 
with this Agreement.  In the event that a Scheme A FAP 
includes  a  Research  Program,  then  such  Scheme  A  FAP 
shall  also  include  eligibility  and  selection  criteria, 
implementation arrangement and terms and conditions for 
Research Program Agreements meeting the requirements 
of Attachment 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
(A)    Scheme  B  shall  be  made  available  to  such  number  of 
weak  capacity  medical  schools  (as  defined  in  the  FAP 
Manual) as may be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank  (expected  to  be  13)  and  such  number  of  new 
medical  schools (as  defined  in the  FAP  Manual)  as may 
be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank (expected 
to  be  7),  in  each  case  on  the  basis  of  a  competitive 
selection procedure specified in the FAP Manual and this 
Annex.    In  order  to  become  a  Participating  Medical 
School,  each  such  weak  or  new  medical  school  shall 
agree  to  use  a  portion  of  its  FAP  to  work  with  a 
Participating  Medical  School  that  is  a  leading  medical 
school  under  Scheme  A  to  be  selected  on  the  basis  of 
consultation  undertaken  in  accordance  with  the  FAP 
Manual.    

 
(B)   The CPCU shall submit a consolidated list of Scheme B 
Medical Schools to the Bank for no objection prior to the 
commencement of any Scheme B FAP.   

(ii) 

 

21 

(iii) 

(C)    Except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  may  otherwise 
shall  not  exceed 
agree,  each  Scheme  B  FAP 
US$1,500,000 equivalent and shall cover activities over a 
period  of no  more than  three (3)  years;  provided  that  no 
FAP may extend beyond the Closing Date.    

 
(D)    The  terms  and  conditions for the  use  by  each  Scheme  B 
Participating  Medical  School  of its  respective  Scheme  B 
FAP,  including  the  mechanism  for  selecting  the  partner 
Scheme A Participating Medical School, shall be set out 
in  its  respective  FAP  Agreement,  in  each  case  on  terms 
and  conditions  acceptable to  the  Borrower and the  Bank 
in accordance with this Agreement. 

 
(A)   Scheme  C  shall  be  made  available  to  such  number  of 
moderate capacity medical schools (as defined in the FAP 
Manual) as may be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank (expected to be 10), in each case on the basis of a 
competitive  selection  procedure  specified  in  the  FAP 
Manual and this Annex.   

 
(B)   The CPCU shall submit a consolidated list of Scheme C 
Medical Schools to the Bank for no objection prior to the 
commencement of any Scheme C FAP.   

 
(C)    Except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  may  otherwise 
agree,  each  Scheme  C  FAP 
shall  not  exceed 
US$1,500,000 equivalent and shall cover activities over a 
period  of no  more than  three (3)  years;  provided  that  no 
FAP may extend beyond the Closing Date.   

 
(D)    The  terms  and  conditions for the  use  by  each  Scheme  C 
Participating  Medical  School  of its  respective  Scheme  C 
FAP shall be set out in its respective FAP Agreement, in 
each  case  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the 
Borrower  and 
this 
Agreement. 

in  accordance  with 

the  Bank 

(b) 

 
Selection Process. DGHE shall ensure that FAPs shall only be provided 
to medical schools that have met the eligibility and selection criteria and 
have proposed Sub-projects meeting the requirements set out in the FAP 
Manual  and  have  been  designated  as  Participating  Medical  Schools  by 
DGHE  following  the  procedure  for  call  for  proposals,  review  of 
proposals  and  (in  the  case  of  Scheme  B  and  Scheme  C)  eligibility  of 
proposing medical schools, as set out in the FAP Manual. 

22 

 

(c) 

FAP  Agreements.
(i)    DGHE  shall  enter  into  a  FAP  Agreement,  on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, with each 
Participating  Medical  School  for  its  respective  FAP  prior  to  providing 
any  Loan  proceeds  to  the  Participating  Medical  School.  Each  FAP 
Agreement  shall  set  out:  (A)  details  of  eligible  activities  and  eligible 
expenditures  in  compliance  with  this  Agreement;  (B)  details  of  agreed 
disbursement schedules; (C) procurement procedures consistent with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (D) provisions 
for maintaining a financial system and preparing financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the  Borrower  and  the    Bank,  both  in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect  the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project and to 
have  such  financial  statements  audited  in  accordance  with  auditing 
standards  acceptable  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  furnish  the 
statements to the Borrower and the Bank; (E) the right of the Borrower 
and  the  Bank  to  inspect  the  Sub-project,  its  operations  and  any 
documents  related  thereto;  (F)  an  undertaking  on  the  part  of  the 
the  Anti-Corruption 
Participating  Medical  School  comply  with 
Guidelines;  (G)  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  suspend  or  terminate  the 
right of the Participating Medical School  to use the proceeds of the FAP 
upon  the  Participating  Medical  School’s  failure  to  perform  any  of  its 
obligations  under  the  FAP  Agreement;  (H)  in  the  case  of  Scheme  A 
FAPs  which  propose  Research  Programs,  the  eligibility  and  selection 
criteria,  implementation  arrangement  and  terms  and  conditions  for 
Research Program Agreements meeting the requirements of Attachment 
1 to  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  (I)  the  undertaking  of  the 
Participating Medical School to implement the FAP in accordance with 
the FAP Manual. 
 
DGHE shall ensure that no proceeds of the Loan shall be used to 
(ii) 
finance  any  FAP  unless  a  FAP  Agreement  has  been  entered  into  and 
remains in  force  and  effect  between the  Borrower  and  the  Participating 
Medical  School  undertaking  such  FAP  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set 
forth in this Agreement. 
 
Disbursement.    DGHE  shall  allocate  FAPs  through  results-based 
allocation  following  review  of  performance  by  each  Participating 
Medical School under its FAP Agreement, provided; however that FAPs 
will  only  be  disbursed  against  eligible  expenditures  for  civil  works, 
goods,  services,  training  and  workshops,  incremental  operating  costs 
and/or research expenditures as set out in the FAP Manual.   

No  FAP  shall  be  made  available  to  finance  expenditures  involving  or 
likely  to  involve:  (i)  the  manufacture  or  use  of  environmentally 
hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and herbicides), arms or 

(d) 

 

(e) 

 

 

23 

the  Borrower’s  agency  responsible  for 

drugs;  (ii)  the  production,  processing,  handling,  storage  or  sale  of 
tobacco  or  products  containing  tobacco;  (iii)  activities  within  a  nature 
reserve  or  any  other  area  designated  by  the  Borrower  for  the 
management and/or the protection of biodiversity, except with the prior 
written  approval  of 
the 
management  and/or  protection  of  such  area;  (iv)  over-exploitation  of 
water resources and/or contamination of domestic water supplies; or (v) 
the  provision  of  goods,  works  or  services,  directly  or  through 
intermediaries, by suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, who have 
been  declared  ineligible  to  participate  in  the  procurement  of  any  Bank-
financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a 
result of a decision of the Bank’s Sanctions Committee, but only to the 
extent that such sanction remains valid and applicable, according to the 
terms of the decision. 
 
No FAP shall be made available to finance the salaries of civil servants 
of the Borrower. 

(f) 

Procurement Planning. The  CPCU  shall  consolidate  the  procurement 
plans for all Participating Medical Schools and shall submit them to the 
Bank  for  no  objection  prior  to  the  commencement  of  activities  under 
each such procurement plan.  The CPCU shall also consolidate proposed 
changes/revisions  to  any  procurement  plan  and  submit  such  proposed 
changes  to  the  Bank  for  no  objection  prior  to  the  commencement  of 
activities that are the subject of the proposed changes/revisions. 

24 

Attachment 3 to Schedule 2 
 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 

The  procedures  to  be  followed  for  NCB  shall  be  those  set  forth  in  Presidential 
Decree  No.  80/2003  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  with  the  clarifications  and 
modifications  described  in  the  following  paragraphs  required  for  compliance 
with  the  provisions of  the “Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and 
IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Guidelines). 

General

Registration

(a) 

Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a 
condition for participation in the bidding process. 

(b)  Where  registration  is  required  prior  to  award  of  contract,  bidders:  (i) 
shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; 
and  (ii)  shall  not  be  denied  registration  for  reasons  unrelated  to  their 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall 
be verified through post-qualification. 

Pre-qualification

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

Pre-qualification  shall  not  be  used  for  simple  goods  and  works.  
Normally,  post-qualification  shall  be  used.    Pre-qualification  shall  be 
required only for large or complex works with the prior ‘no objection’ of 
the Bank.  When pre-qualification shall be required: 

eligible  bidders  (both  national  and  foreign)  shall  not  be  denied  pre-
qualification, and  

invitations  to  pre-qualify  for  bidding  shall  be  advertised  in  at  least  one 
(1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) 
days  prior  to  the  deadline  for  the  submission  of  pre-qualification 
applications. 

Joint Ventures

A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods 
as a condition of award of the contract. 

 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

25 

 
5. 

 

 
6. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
7. 

 
8. 

Preferences

Advertising

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 

Regulations  issued  by  a  sectoral  ministry,  provincial  regulations  and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures 
to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to 
procurement procedures under the Credit or the Loan. 

Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation  and  submission  of  bids  and  allowing  potential  bidders  to 
purchase  bidding  documents  up  to  twenty-four  (24)  hours  prior  the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 

Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 

Bidders  domiciled  outside 
the  unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of 
the estimated value of the contract. 

the  area/district/province  of 

Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  precluded  from  bidding.  If  a  registration 
process  is  required,  a  foreign  firm  declared the  lowest  evaluated  bidder 
shall be given a reasonable opportunity for registering. 

Bid Security

Bid  security,  at  the  bidder’s  option,  shall  be  in the form  of  a  letter  of  credit  or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 

Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation

Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline  for 
submission  of  bids,  and  if  bids  are  invited  in  two  (2)  envelopes,  both 
envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time. 

Evaluation  of  bids  shall  be  made  in  strict  adherence  to  the  criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated bidder. 

Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 

26 

 

 

 
9. 

(d) 

No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
the  Bank’s  prior 
owner’s  estimate  and  budget  ceiling  without 
concurrence. 

Rejection of Bids

(a) 

All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 

(b)  When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall 

not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 

27 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 
3.93 
4.02 
4.12 

1. 

 

 

March 1, 2019 
September 1, 2019 
March 1, 2020 
September 1, 2020 
March 1,  2021 
September 1, 2021 
March 1, 2022 
September 1, 2022 
March 1, 2023 
September 1, 2023 
March 1, 2024 
September 1, 2024 
March 1, 2025 
September 1, 2025 
March 1, 2026 
September 1, 2026 
March 1, 2027 
September 1, 2027 
March 1, 2028 
September 1, 2028 
March 1, 2029 
September 1, 2029 
March 1, 2030 
September 1, 2030 
March 1, 2031 
September 1, 2031 
March 1, 2032 

 
September 1, 2032 
March 1, 2033 
September 1, 2033 
March 1, 2034 

28 

4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

2.  

 

 

4. 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 

 

 
5. 

currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

29 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

30 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“AIPKI” means the Association of Indonesian Medical Schools, or any successor 
thereto. 

 “Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Associations  of  Health  Higher  Education  Institutions”  means  any  one  of  the 
following the associations of health-related professional institutions in Indonesia: 
AIPKI;  the  Association  of  Indonesian  Dental  Schools  (AFDOKGI);  the 
Association  of  Indonesian  Midwifery  Schools  (AIPKIND);  the  Association  of 
Indonesian Nursing Schools (AIPNI); and the Association of Teaching Hospitals 
of  Indonesia (ARSPI);  and  any  successor to  each thereof;  and  “Associations of 
Health  Higher  Education  Institutions”  means  more  than  one  Association  of 
Health Higher Education Institutions. 

“Association  Memorandum  of  Agreement”  means  each  memorandum  of 
agreement  or  understanding  to  be  entered  into  by  the  Borrower  with  an 
Association  of  Health  Higher  Education  Institutions  for  the  purposes  of  Part 
1.2(b) of the Project, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Bank  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3  of  Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. 

“BAN-PT” means Badan Akreditasi Nasional – Perguruan Tinggi, the currently 
existing  National  Accreditation  Agency  for  Higher  Education  of  the  Borrower, 
and any successor thereto. 

“BAPPENAS”  means  the  National  Development  Planning  Agency  of  the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto.  

“Better  Governance  Action  Plan”  means  a  stand-alone  chapter  of  the  Project 
Management  Manual  exclusively  dedicated  to  the  Borrower’s  anti-corruption 
action  plan,  giving  details  of  a  program  of  actions,  measures  and  policies 
designed  to  reduce  or  eliminate  fraud  and  corruption  in  all  its  forms  under  the 
Project,  including  enhanced  information  disclosure  provisions,  civil  society 
oversight provisions, mitigation measures to deal with the risks associated with 
collusion,  forgery  and  fraud,  a  complaint  handling  mechanism,  and  an 
appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies. 

8. 

“BHE”  means  the  Board  of  Higher  Education  under DGHE,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 

31 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
“CPCU” means the central project coordination unit in the DGHE established by 
Letter  (Surat  Keputusan) Nos.62061  and  62062,  dated  August  21,  2009  and 
operating in accordance with to paragraph 3 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
 
 “DGHE” means the Directorate General of Higher Education of MONE, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
“FAP”  means  each  Financial  Assistance  Package  to  be  provided  to  a 
Participating  Medical  School  for  a  Sub-project  for  minor  civil  works,  training 
and  workshops,  incremental  operating  costs,  research  expenditures  consultants 
services  and  goods,  upon  completion  of  preparation  and  appraisal  of  said  Sub-
project, designation of the Participating Medical School in full compliance with 
the  provisions  of  the  Project  Management  Manual,  the  FAP  Manual  and 
Attachment  2  to  Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement, and  execution by  the  Borrower 
and  the  Participating  Medical  School  of  a  FAP  Agreement  on  terms  and 
conditions  acceptable  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank;  and  “FAPs”  means  more 
than one FAP. 

“FAP Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the Borrower and a 
Participating Medical School for the purposes of a FAP, and in each case meeting 
the requirements set out in paragraph 2(c) of Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, in each case on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Bank; and “FAP Agreements” means more than one FAP Agreement. 
 
“FAP Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, for 
FAPs under Part 3 of the Project meeting the requirements of paragraph 1(b) of 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 1 of Attachment 2 to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such manual may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.  

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“Health  Higher  Education  Institution”  means  an  institution  providing  medical, 
nursing,  dentistry  and/or  midwifery  higher  education  under  the  regulation  of 

 
9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

 
14. 

15. 

 
16. 

17. 

 

 
18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

32 

MONE; and “Health Higher Education Institutions” means more than one Health 
Higher Education Institution. 

“KKI” means the Indonesian Medical Council (IMC/KKI), a mandatory council 
established by law, and any successor thereto. 
 
 “MOF”  means  the  Ministry  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
“MOH”  means  the  Ministry  of  Health  of  the  Borrower,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
 “MONE”  means  the  Ministry  of  National  Education  of  the  Borrower,  and  any 
successor thereto. 
 
“NAA”  means  the  national  accreditation  agency,  or  as  it  may  otherwise  be 
named  upon  its  establishment,  to  be  established  to  provide  accreditation  of 
Health  Higher  Education  Institutions  under  Part  1.1  of  the  Project,  and  any 
successor thereto. 
 
“NAA  Memorandum  of  Agreement”  means  the  memorandum  of  agreement  or 
understanding  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  NAA  for  the 
purposes of Part 1 of the Project in accordance with paragraph 2(b) of Section I.B 
of of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
 
“NACE HealthPro” means the National Agency for Competency Examination of 
Health Professionals, or as it may otherwise be named upon its establishment, to 
be  established  as  an  independent  examination  body  to  cover  medical,  dental, 
nursing, and midwifery graduate examinations under Part 2.1 of the Project. 
 
“NACE  HealthPro  Memorandum  of  Agreement”  means  the  memorandum  of 
agreement or understanding to be entered into between the Borrower and NACE 
HealthPro  for  the  purposes  of  Part  2.1(b)  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with 
paragraph 5(b) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
“Participating Medical School” means each medical school which participates in 
a FAP pursuant to a FAP Agreement. 
 
“PIU”  means  each  project  implementation  unit  to  be  established  by  each 
Participating Medical School pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule 
2 to  this  Agreement  prior  to  such  Participating  Medical  School  entering  into  a 
FAP Agreement or receiving a FAP, and “PIUs” means more than one PIU. 
 

 
28. 

 
29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

33 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  April  30,  2009  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
the  Indonesia  Midwives 
“Professional  Association”  means  any  one  of 
Association (IBI), the Indonesia Medical Association (IDI), the Indonesia Nurses 
Association  (PPNI),  and  the  Indonesia  Dentists  Association  (PDGI),  and  any 
successor to each thereof; and “Professional Associations” means more than one 
Professional Association. 
 
“Project Management Manual” means the Project Management Manual meeting 
the  requirements  of  paragraph  1(a)  of  Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement and acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, as such manual may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
“Research Program” means each program to support research by an individual or 
an institution in support of the Project  under: (a) Part 1.2(b)(ii) of the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (b) 
Part  2.1(b)  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  paragraph  5(c)  of  Section  I.B  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  or  (c)  Part  3  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  1(b)  of  Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  in  each  case 
which is the subject of a Research Program Agreement on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank t. 
 
“Research Program Agreement” means each agreement under: (a) Part 1.2(b)(ii) 
of the Project in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; (b) Part 2.1(b) of the Project in accordance with paragraph 5(c) 
of  Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  or  (c)  Part  3  of  the  Project  in 
accordance with paragraph 1(b) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
in each case on terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
“Researcher”  means  an  individual  or  an  institution  which  is  eligible  to  receive 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  for  a  Research  Program  and  has  entered  into  a  Research 
Program Agreement in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
“Scheme  A”  means  ”  the  scheme  for  providing  FAPs  to  leading  Participating 
Medical  Schools  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  FAP  Manual  and 
Attachment 2 to Schedule 2. 
 

34 

 
36. 

37. 

38. 

 
39. 

40. 

“Scheme  B”  means  the  scheme  for  providing  FAPs  to  weak  capacity  and  new 
Participating  Medical  School  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  FAP 
Manual and Attachment 2 to Schedule 2. 
 
“Scheme  C”  means  the  scheme  for  providing  FAPs  to  moderate  capacity 
Participating  Medical  Schools  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  FAP 
Manual and Attachment 2 to Schedule 2. 
 
“Steering Committee” means the committee established pursuant to Letter (Surat 
Keputusan) Nos.  62063,  dated  August  21,  2009,  and  operating  as  set  out  in 
paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any successor 
thereto. 

“Sub-project” means the activities for which the Borrower provides a FAP to a 
Participating  Medical  School  for  activities  under  Part  3  of  the  Project,  and  in 
each case meeting the requirements set out in Attachment 2 to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and “Sub-projects” means more than one Sub-project. 
 
“Technical  Committee”  means  the  committee  established  pursuant  to  Letter 
(Surat Keputusan) Nos. 62061 and 62062, dated August 21, 2009,  and operating 
as set out in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and any 
successor thereto 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive  proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or 
otherwise  to  participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project 
financed  in  whole  or  in  part  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a 
determination  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 

2. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  

 

35 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows:

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”

