CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7577-IN 
 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Orissa State Roads Project) 
 

between 
 

INDIA 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

Dated January 27, 2009 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  January  27,  2009,  between  INDIA,  acting  by  its  
President  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  fifty  million  Dollars 
($250,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement, (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 
 

2.05.  The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 

 

- 2 -

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(a) 

2.07. 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

ARTICLE III – PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project. To this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 

4.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 

- 3 -

ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint 
Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary  or  Under  Secretary  of  the  Department  of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.  

 
5.02.   The Borrower’s Address is: 

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi 110 001 
India 
 
Cable address:   

Telex:   

ECOFAIRS 
New Delhi  

 
 

953-31-66175 
FINE IN 

 

 

Facsimile: 

91-11-23093422 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

 

 
 

AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 

- 4 -

INDIA 

By 

 

/s/ Dr. Alok Sheel 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

 

 

 

By  

 

/s/ N. Roberto Zagha 
Authorized Representative 
 

- 5 -

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

 

 

 
A. 

 
B. 

1. 

 
2. 

3. 

 
4. 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  remove  transport  bottlenecks  in  targeted 
transport corridors of the State of Orissa for greater investment and economic and social 
development activities in the State of Orissa. 

The Project consists of the following components: 

Road Corridor Improvement

Widening, strengthening and selective realignment of about 461 km of existing 
roads in the State of Orissa to the double-lane standard, to be completed in two 
phases: (i) Phase I Roads, comprising about 204 km of total roads included in 
the Project; and (ii) Phase II Roads, comprising the remaining roads included in 
the  Project;  and  implementation  of  ancillary  social,  health,  resettlement  and 
environmental measures. 

PPP Enabling, Sector Policy and Institutional Development and Implementation Support

Strengthening the capacity of the Government of the State of Orissa to attract, on 
Public  Private  Partnership  (PPP)  basis,  private  sector  participation  in  financing 
and management of selected high-traffic roads.  

Modernization  and  institutional  strengthening  of  the  OWD,  by,  inter  alia:  (a) 
preparation of a  modern  road asset  management  system;  (b)  development and 
implementation  of  a  strategy  to  modernize  financial  management  system  and 
record keeping, and introduction of e-procurement; (c) strengthening the OWD 
capacity  in  core  business  functions,  including  environment  and  social 
management,  road  safety,  road  asset  management,  and  PPP  transactions;  (d) 
revision  and  update  the  PWD  codes  and  manuals  to  improve  contract 
management and procurement practices in OWD; and (e) training and capacity 
building of OWD staff.  

Strengthening the policy, institutional and legal framework of the State of Orissa 
road sector through, inter alia: (a) improving operation and management structure 
for  managing  the  Core  Road  Network;  (b)  developing  sustainable  road 
maintenance  financing  options;  (c)  establishment  of  a  State  road  development 
council  to  coordinate  the  various  State road  agencies;  (d)  preparation  of  a  road 
master  plan,  including  revision/update  and  implementation  of  the  State  road 
network  classification  system;  (e)  development  of  the  road  safety  policy  action 
plan; and (f) development of axle load control policy and strategy. 

  Implementation and monitoring of the Project. 

- 6 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

1. 

2. 

 
3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Section I. 

Institutional and Other Arrangements

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with 
Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of 
India. 

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to take all necessary 
steps to ensure that all Project activities are implemented in accordance with the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.  

The  Borrower  shall  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.   

Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 

A. 

Project Reports 

The Borrower, together with the Project Implementing Entity, shall monitor and 
evaluate  the  progress  of  the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each such report shall cover the period of each 
Fiscal  Year  quarter,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09(a)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
or shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five  (45) days after the end of 
each  Fiscal  Year  quarter,  interim  un-audited  financial  reports  for  the  Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  (1)  Fiscal  Year  of  the 
Borrower, commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the first withdrawal under 

- 7 -

the  Project  was  made.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds of the  Loan  in  accordance  with the 
provisions  of  this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may 
specify by notice to the Borrower, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth 
in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 

Category 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars) 

 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

(1)   Civil works, goods, consultants’ 

246,375,000 

80% 

services, Training, R&R Assistance, 
and Incremental Operating Costs 

(2)   Refund of the Project Preparation 

3,000,000 

Advance 

(3)   Front End Fee 

625,000 

Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(a) of the 
General Conditions 

Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(c) of the 
General Conditions 

- 8 -

Category 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars) 

 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 

(4)    Premia for Interest Rate Cap and 

-0- 

Interest Rate Collar 

Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.07(c) of 
this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 

TOTAL 

250,000,000 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 equivalent may be made 
for  payments  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  July  1,  2008,  for  Eligible 
Expenditures under Category (1). 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2014. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

- 9 -

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 

 
1. 

 

 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each June 15 and December 15 
Beginning June 15, 2014  
 
 
through June 15, 2037 
 
On December 15, 2037 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

2.08% 

2.24% 
 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

- 10 -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 

4. 

 
5. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

- 11 -

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

 

 
1. 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 

  “Core  Road  Network”  means  the  State  of  Orissa  state  highways  and  major 
district roads that have been designated as such by the Government of the State 
of Orissa, as the same may be amended from time to time. 

“EMPs” means the corridor specific environmental management plans related to 
Phase I Roads, adopted by the OWD on August 30, 2007, and corridor specific 
environmental  management  plans  related  to  Phase  II  Roads  to  be  adopted  by 
OWD,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  the  environmental  management, 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be undertaken by the OWD 
during the Project, as such plans may be revised from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank. 

“EMC” means the environmental management cell established within the PMU 
to manage and coordinate environmental aspects of road management, including 
project planning and preparation, supervision, monitoring, evaluation, reporting, 
documentation, training, and overall coordination with other State agencies. 

“Financial  Management  Manual”  means  the  financial  management  manual 
adopted  by  the  OWD  on  December  11,  2008,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  setting 
forth the overall Project financial management arrangements in respect of Project 
flow  of  funds,  accounting  policies  and  procedures,  chart  of  accounts,  financial 
and  accounting  procedures,  books  of  accounts,  financial  reporting,  and  internal 
controls, as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of 
the Bank.  

“Fiscal  Year”  means  the  Borrower’s  and  Project  Implementing  Entity’s  fiscal 
year, beginning on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the 
following calendar year. 

- 12 -

  “GAAP” means the Governance and Accountability Action Plan, adopted by the 
Government of Orissa on September 26, 2008, setting forth the key actions to be 
undertaken  by 
transparency,  and 
accountability under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank. 

to  strengthen  governance, 

the  OWD, 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

“HIV/AIDS  Action  Plans”  means  the  plans  included  in  the  RAPs,  setting  forth 
the  key  policy  and  governmental  actions  required  to  address  HIV/AIDS  issues 
under the Project, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the prior 
approval of the Bank.  

“Incremental  Operating  Costs”  means  incremental  operating  costs  incurred  by 
the  OWD  on  account  of  Project  implementation,  management  and  monitoring, 
including  salaries  of  non-civil  service  positions  and  consultancy  costs, 
dissemination of Project related information, office rent and utilities, office and 
equipment  insurance,  maintenance  and  repair,  vehicle  maintenance  and  repair, 
travel, security, communication, bank charges, and other costs directly associated 
with the Project. 

“ISAP”  means 
the  Institutional  Strengthening  Action  Plan,  adopted  by 
Government  of  Orissa  on  June  9,  2008,  setting  forth  the  key  policy  and 
governmental  actions  required  to  modernize  the  OWD,  and  to  improve  the 
planning  and  financing  framework  for  the  road  sector,  as  such  plan  may  be 
revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.  

  “ISAP Steering Committee” means the committee established by Government of 
Orissa on December 11, 2008, chaired by the Development Commissioner, and 
whose  members 
the  concerned  agencies  and 
departments, or any successor or successors thereto. 

include  representatives  of 

“OWD”  means  the  Works  Department  of  the  Government  of  Orissa,  or  any 
successor or successors thereto. 

“Phase  I  Roads”  and  “Phase  II  Roads”  mean  the  roads  referred  to  under 
Component A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

  “PMU” means the project management unit established within the OWD to assist 

in Project implementation, or any successor or successors thereto. 

9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 

- 13 -

18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 
 
22. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

 

25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

  “PPP Cell” means the unit within the PMU responsible for management of PPP 
roads  under  Component  B.1  of  the  Project,  or  any  successor  or  successors 
thereto. 

“Procurement  Guidelines” means  the  “Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004,  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for  the  Project,  dated  July  9,  2008,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the 
Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as 
such plan shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraphs. 

“Project Implementing Entity” means the State of Orissa. 

“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance granted by 
the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Bank on March 8, 2006, and on behalf of the Borrower on March 30, 2006. 

“RAPs” means the Resettlement Action Plans for Phase I Roads adopted by the 
OWD  on  November  6,  2007,  and  the  Resettlement  Action  Plans  for  Phase  II 
Roads to be adopted by the OWD, which include the HIV/AIDS Plans, and are 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  which  set  forth  resettlement,  social,  land 
acquisition,  and  tribal  communities  rehabilitation  and  assistance  actions  to  be 
undertaken  by  the  OWD  under  the  Project,  as  such  plans  may  be  revised  from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 

“R&R Assistance” means resettlement and rehabilitation assistance provided by 
the OWD to eligible recipients in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth in the R&R Framework and the RAPs.  

“R&R  Framework”  means  the  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  policies  and 
procedures adopted by the Government of the State of Orissa on March 1, 2007, 
addressing adverse temporary or permanent social impacts resulting, or likely to 
result,  from  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  and  based  on  the  Resettlement  and 
Rehabilitation Policy adopted by the Government of Orissa in April 2006, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank. 

“SMC” means the social management cell established within the PMU to manage 
and  coordinate  social  impact,  land  acquisition,  resettlement,  and  indigenous 
(tribal) people issues under the Project. 

  “State  Level  Empowered  Committee”  means  the  committee  established  by 
Government  of  Orissa  and  chaired  by  the  Development  Commissioner  of  the 

- 14 -

Project Implementing Entity, and whose members include the Engineer-in-Chief-
cum-Secretary  of  Works,  Secretary  Finance,  Secretary  Forest,  Secretary 
Revenue, Chief Engineer (Roads), and Chief Engineer (World Bank Projects), or 
any successor or successors thereto. 

  “State of Orissa” means the State of Orissa of the Borrower. 

“Training”  means  reasonable  and  necessary  costs  of  training  related  to  Project 
implementation,  including  the  fees  of  educational  or  other  institutions  that 
provide  training,  costs  related  to  attendance  or  organization  of  conferences, 
seminars and workshops, and the trainees’ cost of travel, boarding, lodging and 
per diem allowances.  

 
28. 
 
29.  

 

