CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7581-BR 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Rio Grande do Sul Integrated Municipal Development Program – Integrated Municipal 
Infrastructure Project - Uruguaiana Vencerá)

MUNICIPALITY OF URUGUAIANA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated May 13, 2009 

LOAN NUMBER 7581-BR 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  May  13,  2009,  between  MUNICIPALITY  OF  URUGUAIANA 
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

(“Borrower”) 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

and 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of six million eight hundred and thirty thousand Dollars 
($6,830,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency 
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement 
(“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions.    

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time,  in  each  case  with the  prior  no-objection of the 
Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury, request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Secretariat of Planning in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the  Loan  has  been 

registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 

 
4.02  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 

 

-2- 

eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on January 25, 
2010. 

 

-3- 

 

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

The Borrower’s Representative is its  Mayor.   

501. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Rua XV de Novembro 1882, Centro 
Uruguaiana Rio Grande do Sul 
97510-500 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: 
 
55-55-3411-7535 

 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Brasilia, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

MUNICIPALITY OF URUGUAIANA 

 

 

 
 

By /s/ José Francisco Sanchotene Felice 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 

-4- 

Authorized Representative 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower  to  provide 

selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population. 
 

The Project constitutes a part of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 

 
Part I:

Municipal Strengthening

Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to more effectively and efficiently execute its 
programs,  and implement and mainstream the appraisal, fiduciary and environmental and social 
procedures of the PDMI including, inter alia:

1. 

Public Service Modernization

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

Improvements of installation of the existing Municipal Administrative Centre to 
create a more user-friendly citizen access. 

Automation  of  information  systems  and  integration  of  municipal  databases, 
including the acquisition of hardware and software required therefor.  

Training,  equipping  and  provision  of  expert  advice  to  the  Borrower’s  staff  and 
management  in  subjects  related  to  municipal  management,  including  public 
services. 

 
2. 

Project Management

Provision  of  technical  assistance  and  equipment,  and  financing  of  operating  costs,  as 
required  for  the  UGP  and  UAP,  when  applicable,  to  carry  out  the  dissemination,  appraisal, 
fiduciary,  environmental,  monitoring,  reporting  and  social  requirements  of  the  PDMI  and  the 
Project. 
 
Part II:

Employment and Income Generation

1. 

Strategies, SME and Cluster Support

Strengthening  of  the  Borrower’s  capacity  to  generate  employment  and  income  through 
facilitating micro and small business access to micro-credit and improvement of the effectiveness 
of  such  business  including,  inter  alia,  carrying  out  of  studies  to  identify  local growth  potential 
and  prepare  a  LED  strategy  for  the  Borrower  and  provide  training  to  SME’s  staff  on 
formalization of business activities, business management,  marketing, and Cluster organization, 
including implementation of marketing events. 
 

-5- 

2. 

Productive Subprojects

Carrying  out  of    productive  activities  in  the  agriculture  sector  including,  inter  alia, 
growing and processing of vegetable and fruits in a sustainable way, construction of greenhouses 
in  family  operated  farms,  equipping  of  small  irrigation  systems,  and  operation  of  small  agro-
processing  plants  (the  Productive  Subprojects),  and  any  other  subprojects  as  agreed  with  the 
Bank. 
 
Part III:

Infrastructure Service Improvements

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  to  improve  road,  drainage  and  water  and  sanitation 
services including, inter alia, the following Infrastructure Service Improvement Subprojects or ISI 
Subprojects: 
 
1. 

Urban and Street Upgrading

Establishment  and  operation  of  the  municipal  asphalt  plant  and  provision  of 
street maintenance equipment as required and in the numbers and specifications 
detailed in the Operational Manual. 

Rehabilitation and paving of streets. 

Improvements  of  pedestrian  facilities,  traffic  signs,  construction  of  bus  shelters 
and tree plantings. 

Improvement of drainage systems in selected neighborhoods. 

Water and Sanitation Improvements

Construction  of  infrastructure  to  improve  the  sewerage  collection  and/or  drainage 
infrastructure in Bairro Santo Inácio and União das Vilas, or such other neighborhoods 
as the Borrower may propose and the Bank may agree. 

Integrated Municipal Solid Waste Management

(a) 

(b) 

Closing the existing dump, enclosing and cleaning up the area, creating a buffer 
zone of vegetation, implementing leachate treatment systems and opening a new 
sanitary landfill. 

Building  of  socio-environmental  education  centers,  including  facilities  for  the 
segregation  of  recyclable  waste;  and  training  in  waste  recycling  and  other 
professional  programs  for  waste-pickers  and  carrying  out  of  educational 
programs for the entire community with respect to solid waste management.  

(a) 

 
(b) 
 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

 

 

-6- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements

Section I. 

Institutional Arrangements. 

The Borrower shall: 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 

(a) 

(b) 

maintain a project coordination unit (UGP) within its Secretariat of Planning with 
the powers and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual; and  

no  later  than  two  months  from  the  Effective  Date  have  such  unit  fully  staffed 
with  personnel  with  experience  and  qualifications  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
including  the  following  key  staff:  a  coordinator  and  experts  to  handle  the 
technical,  procurement,  financial  management  and  safeguard  aspects  of  the 
project. 

The  Borrower  shall,  together  with  the  other  Participating  Municipalities  and  until 
completion of the Project, maintain the Superior Council and Technical Council with the 
structures, powers and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual. 

The Borrower shall establish, together with at least two other Participating Municipalities 
a unit of inter-municipal coordination (UAP) with powers and responsibilities set forth in 
the  Operational  Manual.  This  unit  shall  be  established  not  later  than  such  date  as  the 
Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  that  at  least  three  of  the  loan  agreements    between  the 
Bank  and Participating Municipalities have been entered into and become effective, for 
purposes of the financing of part of the costs of implementing the PDMI in the respective 
Participating Municipalities. 

Inter-Institutional Agreements 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce the PDMI Inter-Municipal Agreement or any of its provisions. 

Subprojects 

(a) 

The Borrower shall, prior to submitting withdrawal applications in respect of any 
Productive  Subproject,  in  respect  of  which  the  Beneficiary  will  have  any 
responsibility in its implementation and/or maintenance as per the requirement of 
the  Operational  Manual,    enter  into  an  agreement,  substantially  in  accordance 
with  the  Model  Subproject  Agreement,  with  each  Beneficiary  to  set  forth  the 
respective  parties’  responsibilities  in  the  implementation  of  the  Productive 
Subproject, including inter alia:

(i) 

the  Borrower’s  responsibility  to  procure  the  items  required  for  its 
implementation; and  

-7- 

(ii) 

the Beneficiary’s obligation to comply with the respective Business Plan 
and  seek  the  Borrower’s  approval  to  any  major  modifications  to  such 
Business Plan. 

(b) 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Productive Subproject Agreement or any of 
its provisions. 

Operational Manual 

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia:

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 
 
(f) 

the  functions,  responsibilities  and  training  requirements  for  the  personnel 
responsible  for  the  coordination,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project, 
including the UGP, UAP, the Superior Council and the Technical Council; 

procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management,  disbursement  and  audits  of  the  Project  and  respective  forms, 
reports and guidelines; 

the  indicators  to  be  used  in  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project 
(Performance Indicators); 

the  Environmental  Assessment  and  Management  Framework  and 
Resettlement Framework; 

the 

the model of Productive Subproject Agreements; and 

the requirements for the preparation and approval of Business Plans. 

In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  those  of  the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 

Anti-Corruption Guidelines 

Safeguards 

provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
F. 
 
1. 
 

Resettlement 

The  Borrower  shall,  when  applicable  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Resettlement Framework: (a) furnish to the Bank for approval the Resettlement Plan; and 
(b) carry out such Resettlement Plan in accordance with its terms. 

 

 
D. 
 

 

 
E. 
 

 

 

-8- 

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on  the  basis  of  the  indicators  (the  Performance  Indicators)  set  forth  below  in  the 
Operational  Manual.    Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant  Services.    All  goods,  works,  and  non-consultant 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

 

-9- 

 

B. 
 
1. 

 

 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services 

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  good,s  works,  and  non-consultant  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

2. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.

(a) 

table  specifies 

The  following 
the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than 
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and 
non-consultant  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Direct Contracting 
(c) Shopping  

(b) 

National  Competitive  Bidding,  shall  be    subject  to  the  following  additional 
procedures: 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

the  invitation  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  as  a  minimum  in  the  national 
press or Official Gazette or a free and open access website; 

the  arrangements,  under  the  invitation  to  bid,  for  joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance 
by the Bank in each case;  

the  purchaser  shall  not  issue  any  change  order  under  a  contract  which 
would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and 
related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and 
conditions of sale; in addition, any change order which would result in an 
increase  or  decrease  of  more  than  said  15%  with  respect  to  a  contract 
which  was  originally  subject  to  Prior  Review  by  the  Bank  when  the 
contract was first awarded, shall itself be subject to Prior Review by the 
Bank  to  ensure  that  the  change  order  does  not  violate  this  prohibition; 
and 

 

(iv) 

the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 

-10- 

which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

Procurement Method
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  Least-Cost Selection 
(c)  Quality-Based Selection 
(d)  Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for the 
 
(e)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

Selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

 

-11- 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

 

 

810,000 

400,000 
5,540,000 
17,075 

0

62,925 

6,830,000 

(1) Goods, non-consultant services, 
consultant services, Training and 
Operating Costs: 
 
(a)  for all Parts of the Project 
other than Parts I.2 and III.1 (a) 
 
(b)  for Part I.2 of the Project 
(2) Works  
(3) Front-end Fee 

(4) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 

(5) Unallocated 
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

69%  
 
100% 
69% 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 
 
 

3. 
 

 

 
B. 
 
1. 

For purposes of paragraph 2 above the terms: 

(a) 

(b) 

“Training” means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project and directly 
related to training activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs 
related to workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration 
fees, facility and equipment rentals, and local travel costs and per diems for the 
Borrower’s staff or consultants hired by the UGP; and 

“Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Project 
and directly related to the activities described in the Project, including, inter alia,
office materials and supplies, transportation, phone and fax charges, media 
campaigns and printing of materials, and local travel costs and per diems for the 
Borrower’s staff or consultants hired by the UGP. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an 
aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $683,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for  payments  made 
within twelve months prior to this date for Eligible Expenditures.  

-12- 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing  Date  after  the  Guarantor’s  Ministry  of  Finance  has  informed  the  Bank  that  it 
agrees with such extension. 

2. 

 

 

-13- 

 

SCHEDULE 3 
 

Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

 

 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
On March 15, 2028 

Beginning September 15, 2013 
through September 15, 2027 

 

3.33% 
3.43% 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 

-14- 

 

4. 

 
5. 

withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

 

-15- 

 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 
 
11. 

 
12. 

 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 

“Beneficiary”  means  any  party  eligible  to  carry  out  a  Productive  Subproject  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual 

“Business Plan” means a business plan prepared by the Borrower and/or a Beneficiary, as 
the case may be, approved by the Bank and detailing the description of the business, the 
marketing  strategy,  the  competitiveness  analysis,  a  development  plan,  operation  and 
management plans and relevant financial information.  

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“Cluster” means a geographic concentration of inter-connected businesses, suppliers and 
associated institutions in a particular economic sector. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 

“Environmental  Assessment  and  Management  Framework”  means  the  framework  for 
assessment and management of the environmental, cultural property, natural habitats and 
safety of dams aspects of the Program, prepared by the Participating Municipalities, dated 
July  23,  2007    set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  published  and  available  to  the 
public on the website: www.pdmi.com.br. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008).  

the  “International  Bank 

“Infrastructure  Service  Improvement  Subproject”  or  “ISI  Subproject”  means  a  set  of 
activities to be implemented under Part III of the Project and eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“LED” means local economic development. 

“Model  Subproject  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.D.(e)  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 

-16- 

“Participating  Municipalities”  means:  Bagé,  Pelotas,  Rio  Grande,  Santa  Maria  and 
Uruguaiana  and  any  other  municipality  in  the  State  of  Rio  Grande  do  Sul  of  the 
Guarantor which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in 
the Program. 

 “PDMI  Inter-Municipal  Agreement”  means  the  agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
entered  into  among  the  following  Participating  Municipalities:  Bagé,  Pelotas,  Rio 
Grande, Santa Maria and Uruguaiana on November 5, 2007. 

“Performance Indicators” means the indicators adopted in the Operational Manual for the 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May 
15, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Productive Subproject” means a set of activities to be implemented under Part II.2 of the 
Project and eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual. 

“Productive Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I. C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Program”  or  “PDMI”  means  the  program  for  the  integrated  development  of  the 
Participating  Municipalities  of  the  Guarantor’s  State  of  Rio  Grande  do  Sul  set  forth  or 
referred to in the letter from the Participating Municipalities to the Bank dated September 
12, 2007. 

“Resettlement Framework” means the framework, dated July 23, 2007, prepared by the 
Participating  Municipalities  and  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  defining  the 
procedures  for  the  involuntary  resettlement  or  economic  displacement  of  population  in 
the event it is required in connection with the works to be carried out under the Project as 
published and available to the public in the website: www.pdmi.com.br. 

“Resettlement  Plan”  means  any  plan  prepared  following  the  requirements  of  the 
Resettlement Framework and approved by the Bank. 

“SME” means small and medium enterprises. 

 “Superior  Council”  means  Conselho  Superior,
the 
Participating  Municipalities  on  November  5,  2007  in  accordance  with  the  PDMI  Inter-
Municipal Agreement. 

the  council  established  by 

13. 

 

14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 
 
24. 

 

 

-17- 

“Technical Council” means Conselho Técnico, the technical arm of the Superior Council 
established by the Participating Municipalities on November 5, 2007 in accordance with 
the PDMI Inter-Municipal Agreement. 

“UAP” means unidade de articulação, the unit to be established jointly by Participating 
Municipalities in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  I.A.3  of  Schedule 2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“UGP” means “Unidade Gestão do Projeto”, the unit established within the Borrower’s 
Secretariat  of  Planning  on  March  20,  2007,  pursuant  to  the  Borrower’s    Portaria  No. 
029/2007 dated March 20, 2007. 

25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

 

 

-18- 

