CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7972-DO 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors Second  
Development Policy Loan) 
 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 

between 
 

and 
 

Dated November 23, 2010 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

 

-2- 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

Agreement  dated  November  23,  2010,  entered  into  between  DOMINICAN 
REPUBLIC  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of 
the  Program  (as  defined in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement). The  Bank  has  decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an  appropriate  macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  million 
Dollars  ($150,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed 
Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph (a)  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement  and  unless  otherwise  notified  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000) shall be converted from the 
initial  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate  for  the  full  maturity  of  such  amount  in 
accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 

-2- 

 

 

 

2.09.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Events  of  Suspension  consists  of,  namely,  that  a  situation  has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of,  namely,  that  the  event 

specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 

ARTICLE V — TERMINATION 

5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this agreement, but in no 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on May 18, 2012. 

-3- 

 

 

 

 

 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Ministerio de Hacienda.

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministerio de Hacienda  
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 

Tel:  

 

 

Facsimile: 

(809) 687-5131  

(809) 688-8838 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

-4- 

 
 

 

 

 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States of  America,  as  of  the  day 

and year first above written. 
 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 

By /s/ Roberto Saladín 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 
 

 

-5- 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Actions under the Program

Section I. 

Actions  Taken  Under  the  Program. The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under  the 
Program, aimed to enhance performance of social sectors to promote human capital for 
the poor, include the following: 
 
1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Borrower, through its Vice-President’s office (acting as head of the Gabinete 
de Coordinación  de  Política  Social),  has  issued  Resolution  No.  01-10,  dated 
August 2, 2010 and Resolution No. 02-10, dated August 6, 2010, approving: (i) 
the  regulations  governing  the  function  of  the  CCT  Interagency  Committee  and 
CCT  Intersectoral  Committee;  and  (ii)  the  organizational  development  plan  for 
CCT  Solidaridad  Program  (which  includes  the  updating  of  the  organizational 
structure  and  personnel  roles  in  accordance  with  the  defined  processes  for  the 
implementation  of  the  redesigned  CCT  Solidaridad  Program),  which  shall  be 
implemented by November 2011. 
 
The  Borrower,  through  its  Vice-President’s  office,  in  a  letter  dated  October  1, 
2010 has confirmed the approval (through an act of agreement from the Comité 
Técnico Intersectorial dated September 30, 2010) of the Action Plan 2010-2011 
issued  by  the  CCT  Solidaridad  Program  of  the  Gabinete  de  Coordinación  de 
Política  Social, stating  that,  by  December  2010,  90  percent  of  beneficiary 
households receiving  transfers  will  be registered in  a  Primary  Care  Unit  and/or 
school  or  have  received  a  letter  warning  of  potential  suspension  due  to 
incompliance;  and  defining  the  procedures  and  timeline  (beginning  in  January 
2011)  for  the  systematic  verification  of  co-responsibilities  in  education  and 
health,  with  the  objective  of  linking  at  least  80  percent  of  the  transfers  to  the 
beneficiaries  of  the  CCT  Solidaridad  Program  based  on  the  verification  of  co-
responsibilities. 
 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Education, has issued: (i) Resolution No. 
8, dated August 20, 2010, formalizing the introduction of learning outcome tests 
(with  reference  to  Mathematics  and  Spanish)  for  students  in  the  first  cycle  of 
basic  education;  and  (ii)  Resolution  No.  6,  dated  August  12,  2010, establishing 
evaluation standards to be used both in public and private schools for students in 
the second cycle of basic education. 
 
The Borrower, through its Vice-President’s office (acting as head of the Gabinete 
de Coordinación  de  Política  Social),  has  issued  Resolution  No.  03-10,  dated 
August 6, 2010, instructing to adopt, by December 1, 2010, measures to improve 
the  level  of  access  to  information  for  beneficiaries  of  the  CCT  Solidaridad 
Program payment card, allowing said beneficiaries to be informed about: (i) the 

2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3. 
 
 
 
 
 

4. 
 
 
 

 

-6- 

total  amount  of  the  cash  transferred  to  them;  and  (ii)  the  available  balance  on 
their cards through the use of a toll-free telephone line. 
 
The  Borrower  through  its  Council  of  Ministries,  has  (a)  approved  the  Multi-
Annual  National  Plan  for  the  Public  Sector  2010-2013  which  contains  the 
medium-term  guidelines  for  social  protection  policy  with  projections  as  to  the 
coverage, estimated budget, and financing bases, including the quantification of 
the service coverage gaps in education and health linked to the CCT Solidaridad 
Program  including:  (i)  initial,  basic,  and  the  first  cycle  of  middle  school 
education; (ii) primary health care and an increase in the enrollment in SENASA 
among beneficiaries of the CCT Solidaridad Program not covered by any social 
security scheme; and (iii) nutrition, including the provision of micronutrients for 
pregnant women and children under two years of age; and (b) submitted the draft 
2011 Budget Law including these cost projections to the Borrower’s Congress, as 
evidenced  by  the letter  from  the  Ministry  of  Economy  to  the  Borrower’s  Vice-
President  dated  October  1,  2010,  confirming  the  approval  by  the  Council  of 
Ministries, and submitting a copy of said Multi-Annual National Plan, as well as 
confirming the submission of the draft Budget Law to the Borrower’s Congress. 
 
The  Borrower  has  made  available:  (a)  sufficient  resources  to  meet  the  output 
targets of the CCT Solidaridad Program that had been calculated and agreed for 
2010  as  reflected in  Article  26  of  the  2010  National Budget  Law  and  the  Nota 
Técnica  issued  jointly  by  the  Ministry  of  Economy,  the  Gabinete  de 
Coordinación de Política Social and the Ministry of Finance in October 2010; (b) 
strengthened  procedures  to  ensure  the  predictability  in  disbursement  for  budget 
users,  as  evidenced  by  Article  26  of  the  2010  National  Budget  Law;  and  (c) 
adequate  measures  to  monitor  and  publish  the  use  of  such  resources,  as 
evidenced  by  the  resolution  issued  by  the  CCT  Intersectoral  Committee  and 
dated  September  20,  2010,  establishing  that the results  of the  execution  of said 
budget are presented to the CCT Intersectoral Committee on a quarterly basis and 
published on the web page of the CCT Solidaridad Program or of the Ministries 
of Public Health and Education.    
 
The  Borrower,  through  separate  official  letters  from  its  Ministries  of  Public 
Health and Education, addressed to the Ministry of Economy and dated August 
30, 2010 and September 30, 2010 respectively, has agreed on the implementation 
of the institutional strengthening measures that are needed to ensure preparedness 
for the introduction of performance agreements for the Ministry of Public Health 
and the Ministry of Education. 
 
The  Borrower,  through  SESPAS  (now  Ministry  of  Public  Health),  has  signed 
separate  internal  performance  agreements  (Convenios  de  Gestión) with  each  of 
the  following  Borrower’s  regional  health  services:  Metropolitano; Valdesia;
Norcentral; Enriquillo; Nordeste; Este; El  Valle; Cibao  Occidental; and  Cibao 
Central.

-7- 

 

5. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

7. 
 
 
 
 
 

8. 
 
 

 

 

The  Borrower,  through:  (i)  an  internal  letter  issued  by  the  Vice  Minister  of 
Treasury  and  dated  October  1,  2010,  confirmed  the  implementation  of  the 
Consulta  Amigable  project  (to  be  carried  out  from  September  2010  to  June 
2011), which aims at creating a web-based interface to make available, over the 
internet,  data  on  the  national  budget  contained  in  the  Borrower’s  integrated 
financial management system; and the publication (beginning on September 30, 
2010)  on  the  Minister  of  Finance’s  website  (www.digepres.gob.do) of monthly 
interim  reports  on  the  execution  of  the  Borrower’s  national  budget;  and  (ii)  an 
administrative  agreement  between  the  Minister  of  Finance  and  the  Minister  of 
Economy    signed  on  August  18,  2010,  established  the  development  of  a  pilot 
system  to  link  budget  information  to  performance  indicators  through  the  web-
based interface described in (i) herein. 

The CCT Intersectoral Committee has issued a resolution dated August 12, 2010, 
approving  a  pilot  project  to  monitor  the  availability,  and  improve  the 
accountability of, health and education inputs linked to co-responsibilities of the 
CCT Solidaridad Program, through the use of “community scorecards” allowing 
to  gather information  on  the  services  provided,  which  shall  be  implemented  by 
April 2011, with the purpose of gradually expanding (starting in June 2011) said 
pilot project based on its results. 

9. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

Single Withdrawal Tranche 

149,625,000 

Front-end Fee 

Amount due pursuant to Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 

375,000 

0

TOTAL AMOUNT 

150,000,000 

-8- 

A. 

 
B. 

 

 

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. 

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts. 

The  Borrower  shall  open,  prior  to  furnishing  to  the  Bank  the  first  request  for 
withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account,  and  thereafter  maintain,  an  account  in 
Dollars (Foreign Currency Deposit Account) at the Borrower’s Central Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. 

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account; and 

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount 
is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower’s  National  Treasury,  in  a  manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall confirm to the Bank:  

the  name,  number  of,  and  the  foreign  currency  amount  received  in, the 
Foreign Currency Deposit Account; and 

 the  foreign  currency  amounts  withdrawn  from  the  Foreign  Currency 
Deposit  Account,  and  the  equivalent  amounts  credited  to  the  account 
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Section. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

 
(b)  

(a)  

(b)  

Audit. 

Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 

-9- 

 
 
 
D. 

1. 
 
 
 
 
2. 

 
3. 
 

 

 
E. 

 
F. 

1. 
 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

have  the  Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account  audited  by  independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; and  

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  the  Foreign 
Currency  Deposit  Account  and  its  audit  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is November 1, 2011. 

G. 
 

 

 

 

-10- 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by  multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 

Principal Payment Date 

March 15, 2018 
September 15, 2018 
March 15, 2019 
September 15, 2019 
March 15, 2020 
September 15, 2020 
March 15, 2021 
September 15, 2021 
March 15, 2022 
September 15, 2022 
March 15, 2023 
September 15, 2023 
March 15, 2024 
September 15, 2024 
March 15, 2025 
September 15, 2025 
March 15, 2026 
September 15, 2026 
March 15, 2027 
September 15, 2027 
March 15, 2028 
September 15, 2028 
March 15, 2029 
September 15, 2029 
March 15, 2030 
September 15, 2030 

 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
5.00% 
5.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
3.33% 
3.33% 
3.33% 
3.33% 
8.33% 
8.33% 
10.00% 
10.00% 
10.00% 
10.00% 

-11- 

5.00% 
5.00% 
5.00% 
5.02% 

March 15, 2031 
September 15, 2031 
March 15, 2032 
September 15, 2032 

2.  

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 

-12- 

3. 

(a) 

4. 

 

 

currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 
5. 

 

 

-13- 

APPENDIX 

Section I.   

Definitions

“CCT  Interagency  Committee”  means  the  Borrower’s  permanent  committee 
established pursuant to Resolution No. 02-09, dated March 12, 2009 (issued by 
the head of the Borrower’s Gabinete de Coordinación de Política Social ), which 
aims  at  coordinating  the  policies  and  actions  developed  by  the  Gabinete  de 
Coordinación de Política Social in the social protection sector. 
 
“CCT  Intersectoral  Committee”  means  the  Borrower’s  permanent  committee 
established pursuant to Resolution No. 01-09, dated March 12, 2009 (issued by 
the    head  of  the  Borrower’s  Gabinete  de  Coordinación  de  Política  Social  ), 
which aims at coordinating any initiatives in the sector of health, education and 
nutrition in connection with the CCT Solidaridad Program.  
 
“CCT  Solidaridad  Program”  means  the  Borrower’s  conditional  cash  transfer 
program  for  poor  Dominican  households  as  part  of  the  Borrower’s  social 
protection system and created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 536-05, dated 
September 26, 2005. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

Sub-group 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 
Group
112 
121 

122 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 

-14- 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 
 

 

Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

718  

718.7 

728.43  

897.3 

525 

667 

728 

897  

971  

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account”  means  the  account  referred  to  in  Section 
II.D.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“Gabinete  de  Coordinación  de  Política  Social” means  the  Borrower’s  set  of 
secretariats in charge of organizing and coordinating the Borrower’s social sector 
and  social  assistance  programs,  and  governed  by  the  Borrower’s  Presidential 

-15- 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 

Decrees  No.  570-05,  dated  October  12,  2005,  No.  1082,  dated  September  3, 
2004, and No. 1251, dated September 22, 2004. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  31,  2010  with  the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  October  5,  2010  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 
 
“SENASA”  means  Seguro  Nacional  de  Salud, the  Borrower’s  social  security 
entity. 
 
“SESPAS” means Secretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance.  

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 

Section II.    Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 

-16- 

 
7. 

 
8. 

9. 

10. 

 
11. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 

(c) 

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

-17- 

 
6. 

 

 

 
7. 

 

