CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7843-AR 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
(Emergency Project for the Prevention and Management of Influenza-type Illness and 
Strengthening of Argentina’s Epidemiological System) 
 
 
between 
 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

 

LOAN NUMBER 7843-AR 

 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

 
Agreement, as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement), 
between  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”).    The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby 
agree as follows: 
 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  and  modified  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  and  twenty  nine  million  Dollars 
($229,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement 
(“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding  from a Variable Rate to  a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 

Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSN, with the assistance of:  

Eligible Provinces in respect of Parts 1 (a) (i), (ii), (iv) and (v), (d) and (e) and 
Part 2 (b) of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the pertinent Participation 
Agreement; 

SENASA in respect of Part 1 (b) of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the 
SENASA Agreement; and 

Research  Agencies  in  respect  of  Part  1  (c)  of  the  Project  pursuant  to  the 
provisions of the pertinent Research Cooperation Agreements, 

all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
 
 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

- 2 - 

(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  event  mentioned  in  paragraph  (a) 
below,  provided,  however,  that  if  said  event  shall  have  occurred  and  be  continuing  in 
respect  of  any  given  Eligible  Province,  the  suspension  of the  Borrower’s right  to  make 
withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  may  be  limited  by  the  Bank,  at  the  Bank’s  sole 
discretion,  to  withdrawals  in  respect  of  Eligible  Expenditures  in  respect  of  any  said 
Eligible Province: 

(a) 

any  Eligible  Province  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its  obligations 
under the pertinent Participation Agreement. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following,  namely  any  event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V —TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expires on August 23, 2011. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Public Finance   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
Argentina 
 
Cable:   
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA  
Baires 
 

 

 

 

Facsímile: 

(5411) 43498815 

- 3 - 

 

 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

- 4 - 

AGREED  at  Washington D.C.,  United  States  of  America,  on  behalf  of  the  Bank  on  March  17, 
2010 and at Buenos Aires, Argentina on behalf of the Borrower on March 30, 2010.  
 

 

 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By /s/ Elizabeth Adu 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Amado Boudou 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

- 5 - 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower’s 
epidemiological  health  surveillance  system:  (a)  to  prevent,  monitor  and  evaluate  influenza 
activity; and (b) to control epidemic waves of the A/H1N1 influenza. 

 
The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
 
Part 1:   Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower’s  epidemiological  health  system  for 

surveillance and influenza case-finding  

(a) 

 

 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

Expansion  and  improvement  of  the  quality  of  the  epidemiological  surveillance 
system  for  the  timely  detection  of  reported  cases  of  influenza-like  illness 
through: 

(i) 

improvements to provincial health situation rooms;  

(ii) 

improvements for the provincial sentinel surveillance units;  

 

 

 

(iii) 

improvements to MSN’s Directorates of Epidemiology and EPI Program; 

(iv) 

improvement of the Borrower’s detection and notification system; and 

(v) 

strengthening of the SIVILA Network. 

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  at  coordinating  human  and  animal  health 
surveillance,  through  the  preparation  and  execution  of  a  national  coordination 
plan  with  SENASA  for  surveillance  of  the  A/H1N1  influenza  pandemic  in 
humans and animals. 

Carrying out of joint research with agencies (the Research Agencies) to follow-
up  on:  (i)  mortality  cases  due  to  the  A/H1N1  influenza  pandemic,  and  (ii) 
complications and secondary effects of the A/H1N1 vaccine and treatment. 

population’s 

Carrying  out  of  media  campaigns  at  the  provincial  level  for  prevention  and  to 
social 
increase 
communication  modules  specified  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  covering:  (i) 
communications plans; (ii) campaigns directed to indigenous peoples; (iii) local 
campaigns for vaccination and information; and (iv) self-detection and self-care 
campaigns. 

responsiveness 

vaccination 

through 

to 

Provision of training to health care service providers on  the management of: (i) 
the  surveillance  of  the  A/H1N1influenza  pandemic;  (ii)  hospital  infections  and 
control  related  to  said  pandemic;  and  (iii)  promotion  and  prevention  aspects 
related to said pandemic. 

- 6 - 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

(b) 

Part 2:  Strengthening 

the 
the  Borrower’s  health  system  response  capacity 
communicability  of  the  influenza  virus  and  improve  medical  care  of  those  affected  by 
influenza 

to  reduce 

Provision  of  inputs  required  for  the  activities  listed  in  paragraph  (b)  below 
including: A/H1N1 and pneumococcal vaccines, antiviral treatments, laboratory 
reactive  supplies,  thermos  for  laboratory  sample  transportation,  containers  for 
disposing of flu vaccines; and other emergency supplies, respirators for intensive 
care  units,  ambulances,  and  pulse  oximeters  for  primary  and  secondary  health 
care.  

Carrying out of the following activities at national and/or provincial  health care 
facilities  (as  the  case  may  be);  (i)  application  of  doses  of  A/H1N1  vaccines  to 
help  reduce  the  communicability  of  the  A/H1N1  virus  and  mortality  in  the 
population;  (ii)  application  of  doses  of  pneumococcal  vaccines  to  help  reduce 
lethality  of  the  A/H1N1  virus  in  the  population;  (iii)  provision  of  outpatient 
treatment to symptomatic populations with respiratory conditions; (iv) treatment 
of patients with a respiratory condition in hospitals; (v) treatment of patients with 
a respiratory condition in intensive care units; and (vi) carrying out of diagnostic 
laboratory tests for influenza.  

Part 3:  Project Management and Monitoring and Technical Audits 

Support for Project management and monitoring activities, including consolidation of the 
information necessary  to process  Loan  disbursements  for  Outputs  and  carrying  out  of  quarterly 
independent technical audits for measuring the Project Outputs and its final coverage. 

- 7 - 

 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 

 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 
 
1. 
 

Institutional Arrangements  

The Borrower shall: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

operate and maintain in MSN throughout Project implementation a coordination 
unit  (PCU)  with  the  functions  and  responsibilities  set  forth  in  the  Operational 
Manual, including the role of the various departments and /or units of MSN in 
Project execution and coordination;  

ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project implementation, headed by a 
Project  coordinator,  and  assisted  by  professional  (including,  inter  alia,  a 
technical specialist, a safeguards specialist, a procurement specialist, a financial 
management  specialist,  and  an  epidemiologist  specialist)  and  administrative 
staff,  all  in  numbers  and  with  terms  of  reference,  and  qualifications  and 
experience, acceptable to the Bank; and 

without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (b)  above,  and  no  later  than 
three  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  hire  the  technical,  safeguards  and 
epidemiologist specialists mentioned in said paragraph. 

 
For purposes of carrying out the quarterly independent technical audits referred to in Part 
3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, no later than three months after the Effective Date, 
hire,  and  thereafter  maintain  during  the  execution  of  the  Outputs,  an  independent 
technical auditor (ITA), under terms of contracting satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, inter alia, ITA’s obligation to, not later than thirty calendar days after the end of 
each calendar quarter during Project implementation (starting with the calendar quarter in 
which the Effective Date falls), issue an opinion, acceptable to the Bank, on the number 
of Outputs delivered during the pertinent calendar quarter for purposes of recognizing the 
reported  Outputs  as  Eligible  Expenditures,  except  that  the  opinion  to  be  issued  on  the 
fourth  calendar  quarter  shall  also  address  the  reasonableness  of  the  Unit  Costs  for  the 
Outputs delivered during the pertinent calendar year).  
 
The  Borrower  shall  not  later  than  March  30,  2010,  create,  and  thereafter  maintain 
throughout  the  Project  implementation  period,  specific  budget  line  entries  in  its  annual 
budget in order to keep track of expenditures incurred during Project implementation. 

The Borrower shall: (a) not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly 
thereafter,  review  with  the  Bank,  the  Unit  Costs;  and  (b)  immediately  thereafter  adjust 
said Unit Costs if required by the results of said reviews, all in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank. 

- 8 - 

 

5. 

 
B. 

 

Agreements 

1. 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  I.A.4  of  this  Schedule,  the  Bank  may 
propose  to  the  Borrower  (or  vice  versa)  additional  reviews  of  the  Unit  Costs  earlier  or 
later than as set forth in said section, and if required by the results of any of said reviews, 
the Borrower shall adjust the Unit Costs, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall, prior to the carrying out of the Project activities under Parts 
1 (a) (i), (ii), (iv) and (v), (d) and (e) and 2 (b) of the Project within the territorial 
jurisdiction  of  any  given  Eligible  Province,  enter  into  an  agreement  (the 
Participation Agreement) with the corresponding Eligible Province, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
 

the Eligible Provinces’ obligation:  

to  assist  the  Borrower  in  the  carrying  out  of  Parts  1  (a)(i),  (ii), 
(iv)  and  (v),  (d),  (e)  and  2  (b)  of  the  Project,  and  deliver  the 
Outputs  set  forth  in  the  pertinent  Participation  Agreement  in 
accordance with the requirements and schedule included therein;  

 
 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

 
(vii) 

 

to  meet  the  sanitary  intermediate  outcomes  set  forth  in  the 
pertinent  Participation  Agreement  for  delivery  of  the  Outputs 
and their final coverage; 

to  comply  with  the  fiduciary  and  technical  requirements 
applicable to their respective Parts of the Project; 
 
if  applicable  as  determined  by  the  Bank,  to  comply  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Existing  IPP,  as  well  as  with  the  provisions 
derived  from  the  IPPF  (by  updating  and  complying  with  the 
terms of its Existing IPP as so updated as referred to in Section 
I.E.1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule);  
 
to comply with the provisions of the Environmental Management 
Framework as referred to in Section I.E. 1 (b) (i) of this Schedule 
(including  the  provisions  of  said  framework  as  so  updated 
pursuant to the provisions of Section I.E.2); 

to  enable  the  required  financial  and/or  technical  audits  to  be 
carried  out  by  the  Borrower  and/or  the  ITA,  as  well  as  the 
verifications of compliance of delivery of Outputs; 

to  comply  with  the  reporting  requirements  applicable  to  their 
respective Parts of the Project, and enable the Borrower and the 
Bank  to  review  the  documents  related  to  said  Parts  of  the 
Project; 

 

- 9 - 

 

 

 

the Borrower’s obligation: 

 
(b) 
 

 

(viii) 

 

(ix) 

 
(x) 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to 
enforce  the  corresponding  Participation  Agreement  or  any 
provision thereof unless previously agreed by the Bank; 

to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Borrower to 
comply  with  its  obligations  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  as 
applicable  to  the  carrying  out  of  the  Parts  of  the  Project 
mentioned in (a) (i) (A) herein; and  

to comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (by, for example, 
allowing Bank inspection and audit rights under paragraph 9 (d) 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines); and 

to pay for the Unit Costs of Outputs, as verified by the ITA and 
the Borrower;  

to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  in 
respect  of  the  Parts  of  the  Project  mentioned  in  (B)  (1)  (a)  (i) 
herein;  

if  applicable  as  determined  by  the  Bank,  to  comply  with  the 
provisions of the Existing IPP, as well as with the provisions of 
the  updated  version  of  said  Existing  IPP  pursuant  to  Section 
I.E.1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule; and  

to ensure that the Eligible Province complies with the provisions 
in  the  Loan  Agreement  and  in  the  General  Conditions,  as 
applicable  to  the  Parts  of  the  Project  mentioned  in  (a)  (i)  (A) 
herein. 
 

2. 

Upon  selection  of  any  given  Research  Agency,  and  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any 
Project  activity  under  Part  1  (c)  of  the  Project  in  which  said  Research  Agency  will 
provide  technical  assistance,  the  Borrower  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  (the  Research 
Cooperation Agreement) with said selected Research Agency, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth, inter alia, their respective obligations in the carrying 
out of research under said Part of the Project, including: 

the  Research  Agency’s  obligations  to  abide  by  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines 
(by,  for  example,  allowing  Bank  inspection  and  audit  rights  under  paragraph  9 
(d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines); and 

(a) 

 
(b) 
 

the Borrower’s obligation to: 

(i) 

ensure compliance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and 
 

- 10 - 

 
C. 
 
 

 
D. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(ii) 

if  research  activities  are  carried  out  in  any  given  Eligible  Province  in 
which  indigenous  population  is  present,  comply  and/or  cause  to  be 
complied with the Existing IPP as applicable to said Eligible Province, as 
well  as  with the  provisions  of  the  updated  version  of  said  Existing  IPP 
pursuant to Section I.E.1 (b) (ii) of this Schedule.  

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each 
Participation  Agreement,  each  Research  Cooperation  Agreement,  and  the 
SENASA Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 

 
3. 

(a) 

(b) 

except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Participation  Agreement,  any 
Research  Cooperation  Agreement  and/or  the  SENASA  Agreement  or  any 
provision thereof. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Anti-Corruption 

Operational Manual 

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with  an operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Operational Manual), containing, inter alia:  

(a) 

(b) 
 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 
 
(g) 

the  functions,  responsibilities  and  training  requirements  for  the  personnel 
responsible  for  the  coordination,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project, 
including the PCU; 

the criteria for selecting Research Agencies; 

procedures  for  procurement  of  goods  and  services,  as  well  as  for  financial 
management,  disbursement  and  audits  of  the  Project  and  the  respective  forms, 
reports and guidelines; 

the indicators to measure, monitor and evaluate the coverage of the Outputs and 
other Project activities;  

the requirements and operating guidelines applicable to the Outputs including the 
verification  procedures,  and  the  Unit  Cost  of  such  Outputs  as  per  the  agreed 
typologies; 

a model Participation Agreement; and 

the Environmental Management Framework and the IPPF. 

- 11 - 

 

2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  those  of  the 

Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
E. 
 
1. 

Safeguards 

to:  (i)  comply  with 

the  pertinent  provisions  of 

The  Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall:  (a)  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  set  forth  in  the  Environmental  Management  Framework  (including  the 
provisions  of  said  framework  as  so  updated  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2 
below), the applicable Existing IPP (including the provisions of said Existing IPP as so 
updated  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  (b)  (ii)  herein)  and  the  IPPF;  and  (b)  cause  the 
Participating  Provinces 
the 
environmental/social safeguards instruments mentioned in (a) herein as applicable to the 
Parts  of  the  Project  referred  to  in  Section  3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement;  and (ii)  not  later 
than six months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan, update the pertinent Existing IPP 
based on the provisions of the IPPF (which updated Existing IPP therefore replaces the 
pertinent prior Existing IPP).  
 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall, prior to the 
application of the doses of vaccines under Part 2 (b) (i) and (ii) of the Project: (a) disclose 
the  contents  of  the  Environmental  Management  Framework  (in  a  manner  acceptable  to 
the  Bank);  (b)  after  the  disclosure  mentioned  in  (i)  herein  has  taken  place,  carry  out 
consultations  of  the  Environmental  Management  Framework  under  terms  of  reference, 
and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  (c)  based  on  the  results  of  the  consultations 
referred  to  in  (b)  herein,  and  as  determined  by  the  Bank,  update  the  Environmental 
Management  Framework  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (d)  immediately 
thereafter, implement and/or cause to be implemented the Environmental Framework in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank.  

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

 
Section II. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth  in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  semester  (starting  with  the  calendar  semester  in 
which the Effective Date falls), and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  45  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter 
(starting  with  the  calendar quarter in  which the  Effective  Date  falls),  interim  unaudited 
financial  reports  for  the  Project  (under  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and 

- 12 - 

 

 
3. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

4. 

 
 

 
 

 

Procurement  

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

shall include a copy of the opinion mentioned in Section I.A.2 of this Schedule) covering 
the pertinent quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.  

Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  All goods and Non-Consultant Services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Special  Provisions.  Without  limitation  to  the  other  provisions  in  Section  III  of  this 
Schedule, the following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, 
Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 

(a) 

(b) 

procurement  of  goods,  Non-Consultant  Services  and  consultants’  services  (in 
respect of firms) shall be carried out using: (i) standard bidding documents  and 
standard requests for quotations/proposals (as the case may be), all acceptable to 
the Bank, which shall all include, inter alia, a settlement of dispute provision and 
the  pertinent  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;  (ii)  model  bid 
evaluation forms, and model quotations/proposals evaluation forms (as the case 
may be); and (iii) model contract forms, all acceptable to the Bank; 

without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above: (i) standard bidding 
documents  for  the  procurement  of  goods  and  Non-Consultant  Services  under 
International  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  shall  stipulate  that  the  period  for 
submitting  bids  shall  be  at  least  21  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  notification 
and  advertising  of  the  Specific  Procurement  Notice  as  referred  to  in  paragraph 
2.8 of the Procurement Guidelines;  and (ii) standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods and Non-Consultant Services under National Competitive 
Bidding procedures shall stipulate that the period for submitting bids shall be at 

- 13 - 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

least 10 calendar days from the date of notification and advertising of the specific 
procurement notice; 

a  two-envelope  bidding  procedure  shall  not  be  allowed  in  the  procurement  of 
goods and Non-Consultant Services;  

after  the  public  opening  of  bids  for  goods  and  Non-Consultant  Services, 
information relating to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and 
recommendations  concerning  awards,  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  bidders  or  other 
persons not officially concerned with this process until the publication of contract 
award.  In  addition,  bidders  and/or  other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with 
said process shall not be allowed to review or make copies of other bidders’ bids; 

after  the  public  opening  of  consultants’  proposals,  information  relating  to  the 
examination,  clarification  and  evaluation  of  proposals  and  recommendations 
concerning  awards,  shall  not  be  disclosed  to  consultants  or  other  persons  not 
officially  concerned  with  this  process  until  the  publication  of  contract  award 
(except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). In 
addition,  consultants  and/or  other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with  said 
process  shall  not  be  allowed  to  review  or  make  copies  of  other  consultants’ 
proposals; 

foreign bidders or foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids 
or  proposals  and/or  for  contract  award:  (i)  be  required  to  be  registered  in 
Argentina  (except  as  provided in the  standard  bidding  documents  referred to  in 
paragraph 4 (a) (i) above); (ii) be required to have a representative in Argentina; 
and (iii) be required to be associated or subcontract with Argentine suppliers or 
consultants; 

the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions  of  interest  and  the  pertinent  summary  of  the  evaluation  reports  of 
bids  and  proposals  of  all  goods,  Non-Consultant  Services  and  consultants’ 
services  procured  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  published  in  the  web  page  of  the 
Borrower’s  Office  of  National  Procurement 
(Oficina  Nacional  de 
Contrataciones),  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  The  bidding  period 
shall be counted from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of 
the  availability  of the  bidding  documents,  whichever is  later, to  the  date  of  bid 
opening;  

the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49, 2.50, 2.52, 2.53, 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and Non-
Consultant  Services  to  be  procured  under  National  Competitive  Bidding 
procedures; 

references to bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not be used by 
the Borrower in determining if the bidder in respect of goods whose bid has been 
determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  bid  has  the  capability  and  resources  to 
effectively  carry  out  the  contract  as  offered  in  the  bid,  as  referred  to  in  the 

- 14 - 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

provision  set  forth  in  paragraph  2.58  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines.  The 
provision  set  forth  in  paragraph  2.58  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  (including 
the limitation set forth herein) shall also be applicable to contracts for goods to be 
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures;  

witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for bid evaluation, bid rejection or 
contract award; 

the  Borrower  shall:  (i)  supply  the  SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the 
initial  Procurement  Plan  within  30  days  after  the  Project  has  been  approved  by 
the Bank; and (ii) update the Procurement Plan at least every three months, or as 
required  by  the  Bank,  to  reflect  the  actual  project  implementation  needs  and 
progress  and  shall  supply  the  SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the 
updated Procurement Plan immediately thereafter; 

the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower in respect of contracts for goods to 
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures;  

compliance by bidders with the norms issued by ISO with respect to any given 
good  procured  under  the  Project  shall  not  be  used  as  parameter  for  contract 
award; 

consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities;  

contracts  of  goods  and  Non-Consultant  Services  shall  not  be  awarded  to  the 
“most convenient” bid, but rather to the bidder whose bid has been determined: 
(i)  to  be  substantially  responsive;  and  (ii)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  bid, 
provided  that  said  bidder  has  demonstrated  to  the  Borrower  to  be  qualified  to 
perform the contract satisfactorily; and 

the types of contracts described in Section IV of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be the only types of contracts to be used by the Borrower in connection with the 
contracting of consultants’ services provided by a firm and to be financed with 
the proceeds of the Loan. 

(j) 

(k) 

(l) 

(m) 

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services 

International  Competitive  Bidding.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below, goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-Consultant  Services.    The 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-Consultant Services.  The 
Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances  under  which  such  methods  may  be 
used. 

- 15 - 

 

 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 
D. 
 

 
2. 

 

 

Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Direct Contracting 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Procurement from specialized agencies (analogous to as set forth in Paragraph 3.9 
of the Procurement Guidelines)  

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services.    The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications  
(c) Single Source Selection  
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants  
(e)  Sole  Source  Procedures  for  the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants  set  forth  in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraph 3.21 of the Consultant Guidelines 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 

- 16 - 

 

 
 

 
 
3.  

 

the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

 

(1) Non-Consultant Services, 
consultants’ services (including the 
contracting of ITA) under Parts 1 
(a) (ii) through (v), (b), (c) and (e),  
and 3 of the Project 
 
(2) Goods (including vaccines) 
under Parts 1 and  2  (a) of the 
Project 
(3) Outputs under Part 1(a) (i) and 
(d) of the Project 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

1,800,000 
 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

100%  

181,800,000 

100% 

(4)  Outputs  under  Part  2(b)of  the 
Project  

37,500,000 
 

(5) Operating Costs under Part 3 of 
the Project 
(6) Unallocated 
(7) Front-end Fee 

4,900,000 
 

800,000 

1,627,500 
572,500 

 

100% of the applicable 
the 
Unit  Costs  of 
Output  as  set  forth  in 
the Operational Manual  
100% of the applicable 
the 
Unit  Costs  of 
Output  as  set  forth  in 
the Operational Manual 
 
80% 

 
payable 
Amount 
to  Section 
pursuant 
2.03 of this Agreement 
in 
accordance  with 
Section  2.07  (b)  of  the 
General Conditions 
Amount 
under 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 

due 

(8)  Premia  for  Interest  Rate  Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

229,000,000 

The Outputs eligible for financing for each Project activity under Parts 1 (a) (i) and (d) 
and 2 (b) (i) through (vi) of the Project are as follows: 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

- 17 - 

 

 

 
 
4. 

B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

 
Part of the 
Project 
Part 1 ( a) (i) 
Part 1 (d) 

Part 1 (d) (II) 

Part 2 (b) (i) 
Part 2 (b) (ii) 
Part 2 (b) (iii) 
Part 2 (b) (iv) 

Part 2 (b) (v) 
Part 2 (b) (vi) 

Output 

 
Health situation room certified  
Operational module of social 
communication implemented (excluding 
indigenous peoples) 
Operational module of social 
communication for indigenous peoples 
implemented 
Dose of A\H1N1 vaccine applied 
Dose of pneumococcal vaccine applied 
Outpatient treatment provided 
Inpatient treatment provided in 
hospitalization 
Inpatient treatment  provided in ICU 
 Influenza diagnostic laboratory test 
carried out 

For purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of 
recurrent expenditures, based on an annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that 
would  not  have  been  incurred  by  the  Borrower,  through  MSN  (in  connection  with  the 
carrying  out  of  Part  3  of  the  Project)  absent  the  Project,  for  Project  administration  and 
supervision costs (including office rent), operation and maintenance of office equipment, 
non-durable goods and salaries for civil servants assigned to carry out administrative (e.g. 
secretarial) responsibilities under said Part of the Project (but excluding any other type of 
civil servant salaries). 
 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $91,600,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to 
this date but on or after  April 30, 2009 (but in no case more than one year prior to the 
Signature Date) for Eligible Expenditures for Category (2) if the pertinent obligations set 
forth in this  Agreement,  as  applicable to  said  Eligible  Expenditure  have  been  complied 
with.  
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2012. 

- 18 - 

1. 

 
 
2.  

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE 3 
 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 

Beginning March 15, 2015  
through September 15, 2039 

 
 

2% 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the  Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-

- 19 - 

paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

 

4. 

 
5. 

 

- 20 - 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

6. 

7. 

 
8. 

9. 

10. 

 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I. 
 
1. 

Definitions 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
“Consultant  Guidelines”  means 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
“Eligible Province” means any of the Borrower’s political subdivisions, as per title Two 
of  the  Borrower’s  1994  Constitution,  which  has  met  the criteria for participating  in  the 
Project. 

“Environmental  Management  Framework”  means  the  Borrower’s  framework  dated 
December 10, 2009 (included in the Operational Manual) which sets forth, inter alia, the 
actions  to  manage/mitigate  and/or  address  the  environmental  aspects  of  the  Project, 
including  the  procedures  and  disposal  of  medical  waste,  as  said  framework  may  be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
“EPI  Program”  means  the  Borrower’s  Expanded  Immunization  Program  detailed  in 
article 3 of the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 828/2006 dated July 10, 2006, which 
program’s  objective  is  to  decrease  the  morbi-mortality  of  the  preventable  diseases 
through sustain vaccination. 
 
“Existing  IPP”  means  any  of  the  indigenous  peoples  plans  (acceptable  to  the  Bank) 
adopted  by  the  pertinent  Eligible  Province  under  the  Essential  Public  Health  Functions 
and Programs Project (which Project was financed in part by Bank Loan No.7412-AR in 
accordance  with  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement  entered  into 
between the Borrower and the Bank dated July 12, 2007).  

the  “International  Bank 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
“ICU” means a hospital’s intensive care unit. 
 
“IPPF”  means  the  Borrower’s  updated  indigenous  peoples  planning  framework  dated 
November  10,  2009  (included  in  the  Operational  Manual),  which  framework  includes, 
inter alia, the principles, objectives, methodology and the contents to be included in each 
updated Existing IPP. 

- 21 - 

 

11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

14. 

 
15. 

16. 

17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

21. 

22. 

 
23. 

 

“ISO”  means  International  Organization  for  Standardization,  an  international-standard-
setting body composed of representatives from  various national standards organizations 
which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial standards for products. 

“ITA” means the independent technical auditor referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 

“MSN” means Ministerio de Salud de la Nación, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 
 
“Non-Consultant  Services”  means  services  under  the  Project  which  will  be  bid  and 
contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement  and  approved  by  the  Bank  on  December  21,  2009,  as  the  same  may  be 
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
“Output” means any of the outputs eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
as set forth in Section IV. A.3 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement for each Part of the 
Project in the typology included in the respective Participation Agreement. 
 
“Participation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I. B. 1(a) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section I. A. 1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower’s  Resolution  No.  98/2000,  dated  January  20, 
2000  (as  said  Resolution  has  been  amended  to  the  Signature  Date),  or  any  successor 
thereto acceptable to the Bank. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated 
December 18, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
“Research  Agency”  means  any  agency  which  has  been  selected  by  the  Borrower  in 
accordance  with  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  for  implementation  of 
research activities under Part 1 (c) of the Project. 
 
“Research Cooperation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“SENASA”  means  Servicio  Nacional  de  Sanidad  y  Calidad  Agroalimentario-SENASA, 
the  Borrower’s  National  Service  for  Sanitation  and  Agriculture  and  Food  Quality,  an 
entity  vested  with  legal  personality  pursuant to  the  Borrower’s  Presidential  Decree  No. 
1585/1996 of December 19, 1996 (as the same has been amended to the Signature Date), 

- 22 - 

 

24. 

25. 

26. 
 
27. 

 
2. 
 

 

which is responsible for, inter alia, the execution of sanitary and phyto sanitary national 
policies. 
 
“SENASA  Agreement”  means  the  cooperation  agreement  (Convenio  Marco  de 
Cooperación) dated May 27, 2009 entered into between the Borrower, through MSN and 
SENASA to, inter alia, implement the necessary means and actions to achieve technical 
cooperation  between  the  parties  thereto,  and  carry  out  programs  of  mutual  interest,  in 
particular, programs related to existing zoonotic diseases, as well as exotics, re-emerging 
and re-emerging diseases. 
 
“Signature Date” means the latest of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank 
signed the Loan Agreement and such definition applied to all references to “the date of 
the Loan Agreement” in the General Conditions.  
 
“SIVILA Network” means the Borrower’ laboratory surveillance system network. 

“Unit Costs” means the unit cost of the selected operating costs financed by the Loan and 
required  for  implementation  of  each  of  the  Outputs  in  the  typology  specified  in  the 
pertinent  Participation  Agreement  and  the  Operational  Manual,  which  unit  cost  of  said 
operating costs is specified in the additional instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1.   
 
 
 

“Section 2.05. Eligible Expenditures 

Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 is modified to read as follows: 

(a) 

 
the payment is for the financing of the reasonable goods, works, services, 
Non-Consultant Services or Outputs (as said terms are defined in the Loan Agreement) 
required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and procured, all 
in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;”. 
 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  

(a) 

“Section  2.07.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee  and 
Interest 
 
 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  such  Loan  Party,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  on  or 
after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to  repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall 

- 23 - 

 

 
3. 

4. 

 

 

 

pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance”. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

(l)  Ineligibility.  The  Bank  or  the  Association  has  declared  the  Borrower  (other 
... 
than  the  Member  Country)  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (or  any  other  entity 
responsible  for  implementing  any  part  of  the  Project)  ineligible  to  receive  proceeds  of 
any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or  otherwise  to  participate  in  the 
preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Bank or 
the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a  determination  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  that  the 
Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (or  any  other  entity  responsible  for 
implementing  any  part  of  the  Project)  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by 
the Bank or the Association.” 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 

(a) 

 
 

 
(b) 
 

The  term  “Project  Preparation  Advance”  is  modified  to  read  “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 

- 24 - 

