CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7975-ID 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
(Seventh Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated November 24, 2010 
 

 

 LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

(“Borrower”) 

INTERNATIONAL 

AGREEMNET  dated  November  24,  2010  ,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC   
INDONESIA 

OF 
FOR 
and 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of  (a)  the  actions 
which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in 
Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an 
appropriate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.    The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 

BANK 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions  or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  six  hundred  million  United  States 
Dollars (USD600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 

- 2 - 

 

 

 

 

the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed 
Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 

- 3 - 

 
(c) 

carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists of the  following:    A  situation  has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of the following:  The Bank is 
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program 
and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

 

 

Cable address:   
 
FINMINISTRY  
Jakarta   
 
 
 
 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

45799 DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 4 - 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 

 

 

 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

- 5 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information 
 

Actions Taken Under the Program 

Section I. 
 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 

The Borrower has issued a Presidential Regulation (Perpres No. 36/2010) on the 
Investment  Negative  List  which  updates  restrictions  on  investment,  including 
preferential treatment for ASEAN investors, and clarifies the grandfather clause, 
the treatment of publicly listed companies, and mergers and acquisitions. 
 
The  Borrower  has  submitted  to the  President  a  draft Presidential  Regulation  on 
the national logistics system (Sislognas) development blueprint.  
 
The  Borrower  has  issued  advertisements  (invitations  for  bids)  for  PINTAR 
procurement  as  an  initial  step  in  the  development  of  business  process 
improvements and a new integrated information system.    
 
The Borrower has (a) implemented a revised program structure with measurable 
results  and  targets  aligned  with  the  organizational  structure  in  the  Borrower’s 
National Medium Term Development Plan (RPJM) for 2010-2014; and (b) based 
both indicative ceilings and budget proposals (RKA-KL) from all Line Ministries 
for the Fiscal Year 2011 budget on the revised structure.  

The  Borrower  has  finalized  academic  papers  for  a  draft  procurement  law  and 
prepared  a  draft  of  the  procurement  law,  ready  for  the  public  consultation 
process. 

BPKP has submitted to the Ministry of Finance a draft Presidential Regulation on 
government  internal  audit  systems  as  required  by  Article  58  of  Government 
Regulation No. 60/2008. 
 
The  Ministry  of  Finance  has  submitted  to  the  President  the  draft  Government 
Regulation on accrual-based accounting. 
 
The  Borrower  has  established  an  inter-ministerial  National  Team  for  the 
Acceleration  of  Poverty  Reduction  (National  Team)  by  Presidential  Regulation 
(Perpres 15/2010). 
 
The Borrower has revised the methodology to calculate the national poverty line 
by:  (a)  completing  national  poverty 
line  simulations  using  alternative 
measurement  methodologies;  (b)  conducting  internal  consultations  in  BPS  and 
key government stakeholders to identify a poverty measurement methodology for 

 

 
10. 

 
B. 

 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

- 6 - 

consideration;  and  (c)  holding  external  consultations  about  the  implications  of 
adopting  the  revised  methodology  with  universities,  NGOs  and  key  Line 
Ministries. 

The Borrower has strengthened PNPM fiduciary systems as outlined in the action 
plan  dated  February  16,  2010  by:  (i)  having  documented  and  publicized  major 
complaints and the steps taken to address these; (ii) the BPKP in partnership with 
the  BAWASDA  having  been  explicitly  tasked  with  the  systematic  auditing  of 
PNPM funds; and (iii) the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public 
Works  having  submitted  quarterly  reports  detailing  the  status  of  all  known 
complaints  to  the  National  Team  and  to  the  Joint  Management  Committee 
members. 

 
Section II. 
 
A. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.    The  Loan  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations 

 Single Withdrawal Tranche 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
600,000,000 
600,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.  No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank  is  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program 
being  carried  out  by  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the  appropriateness  of  the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
2.  

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 

- 7 - 

 

 
F. 

 
G. 

Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures.    The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.   Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is March 31, 2011. 

- 8 - 

SCHEDULE 2 

 
Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 
3.93 
4.02 

 
1. 

 

 

 

April 01, 2020 
October 01, 2020 
April 01, 2021 
October 01, 2021 
April 01, 2022 
October 01, 2022 
April 01, 2023 
October 01, 2023 
April 01, 2024 
October 01, 2024 
April 01, 2025 
October 01, 2025 
April 01, 2026 
October 01, 2026 
April 01, 2027 
October 01, 2027 
April 01, 2028 
October 01, 2028 
April 01, 2029 
October 01, 2029 
April 01, 2030 
October 01, 2030 
April 01, 2031 
October 01, 2031 
April 01, 2032 
October 01, 2032 

- 9 - 

4.12 
4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

April 01, 2033 
October 01, 2033 
April 01, 2034 
October 01, 2034 
April 01, 2035 

 
2.  

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

 

 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as  of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in  the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 

4. 

- 10 - 

Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

 
 

 
5. 

 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

5. 
 

- 11 - 

APPENDIX 

 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“ASEAN”  means  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  an  international 
organization. 
 
“BAWASDA”  means  Badan  Pengawas  Daerah,  the  supervisory  boards 
constituted at the district level by the Borrower, and any successors thereto. 
 
“BPKP”  means  Badan  Pengawasan  Keuangan  dan  Pembangunan, 
the 
Borrower’s  Financial  and  Development  Supervisory  Board,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 

“BPS” means Badan Pusat Statistik, the Borrower’s Central Bureau of Statistics, 
and any successor thereto. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 
112 
121 

Sub-group 
 
 

122 

525 

667 

 

 

 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 

 

6. 

7. 

8. 

- 12 - 

718.7 
 

728.43  

897.3 

718  

728 

897  

971  

 

unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 
  
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  31,  2010  with  the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
“Government  Regulation” means  Peraturan  Pemerintah,  a  regulation issued  by 
the government of the Borrower. 
 

 
9. 

 
10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

 
15. 

16. 

17. 
 
18. 

19. 

 
20. 

21. 

- 13 - 

“Investment  Negative  List”  means  the  Daftar  Negatif  Investasi  (DNI),  the 
Borrower’s  Investment  Negative  List  establishing  those  sectors  closed,  or 
partially  closed,  to  private  foreign  and/or  domestic  investment  (Perpres  No. 
111/2007). 

“Joint  Management  Committee”  means  the  Joint  Management  Committee 
established  by  the  Borrower  to  manage  PNPM,  including  representatives  from 
key Line Ministries and other development partners. 
 
“Line Ministry” means an operational ministry or institution of the government 
of the Borrower, and “Line Ministries” means more than one Line Ministry. 
 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
“Ministry  of  Home  Affairs”  means  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  of  the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Ministry  of  Public  Works”  means  the  Ministry  of  Public  Works  of  the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

 

“National  Team”  means  the  Borrower’s  national  Team  for  the  Acceleration  of 
Poverty  Reduction,  established  pursuant  to  Perpres  15/2010,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations. 
 
“President” means the head of state of the Borrower. 

“Presidential  Regulation”  is  the  English  language  definition  of  a  Perpres,  a 
regulation of the President of the Borrower. 
 
“Perpres”  means  a  Peraturan  Presiden,  a  regulation  of  the  President  of  the 
Borrower. 

“PINTAR” means the Borrower’s Program for Indonesian Tax Reform, financed 
in part by Bank Loan No. 7631-ID, dated February 9, 2009. 
 
“PNPM”  means  the  Borrower’s  Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat, 
or  National  Program  for  Community  Empowerment,  as  set  out  in  the  PNPM 
General Guidelines (Pedoman Umum), issued by Tim Pengendali, dated, July 30, 
2007, and to which the Bank provides financing under Credit Nos. 4384-ID and 
4385-ID  and  Loan  Nos.  7504-ID,  7505-ID,  7664-ID,  7666-ID,  7866-ID  and 
7867-ID. 
 

 
22. 

23. 

24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

- 14 - 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred to in the letter dated, October 12, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 
 
“RKA-KL”  means  a  Rencana  Kerja  dan  Anggaran  Kementerian/Lembaga,  a 
work and budget of a ministry or institution of the Borrower. 
 
“RPJM”  means  the  Borrower’s  Rencana  Pembangunan  Jangka  Menengah 
Nasional 2010-2014, or National Medium Term Development Plan. 

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“Sislognas”  means  sistem  logistik  nasional,  the  Borrower’s  national  logistics 
system. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 

(c) 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 

 

 

- 15 - 

under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

… 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
 

 
 
 
 

