CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7915-ID 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan) 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 23, 2010 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  June  23  2010,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF 
INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an  appropriate  macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 

2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

 

 

 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c) 

 

 

 

 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists of the  following:    A  situation  has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  The Bank 
and  the  Borrower  are  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in 
carrying  out 
the  Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 

the  Program  and  with 

the  adequacy  of 

 
5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

Cable address:   
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
Jakarta   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

45799 DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 

 

 

written. 
 

 

 

 
 

1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 
AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA  

By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

B: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 

Authorized Representative 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken under the Program

Policy Area 1: Mitigation 
 
Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation 
 
1. 

The Borrower has improved policy coordination and management of peat land by 
issuing and beginning implementation of a master plan on peat land rehabilitation 
in Central Kalimantan.  (MOFR Ministerial Regulation No.55/2008). 

The Borrower has improved its regulatory framework for REDD implementation 
by: (i)  launching a national readiness program for REDD (September 2009) and 
establishing  a  legal  framework  (MOFR  Ministerial  Regulations  No.68/2008  on 
demonstration activities; No. 30/2009 on REDD procedures and No. 36/2009 on 
commercial forest carbon projects); and (ii) completing a participation agreement 
with  the  Forest  Carbon  Partnership  Facility  (November,  2009)  and  initiating  a 
REDD program with UN REDD support (November,  2009).   

The Borrower has established a national timber legality standard and a system for 
verification  and  monitoring  to  assist  in  reducing  illegal  logging  and  forest  loss 
and degradation (MOFR Ministerial Regulation No. 38/2009).  

 
Energy Sector Mitigation 
 
4. 

The Borrower has improved the policy framework to promote renewable energy 
development  and    investment  by:  (i)  issuing  Presidential  Decree  No.  4/2010 
which assigns to PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN) the acceleration of power 
plant development using renewable energy, coal, and gas and mandates PLN to 
develop  and  purchase  power  from  renewable  energy  resources;  (ii)  issuing 
MEMR  Ministerial  Regulation  No.  32/2009  on  purchase  standard  price  of 
electricity power by PLN from geothermal electricity power station; (iii) issuing 
MEMR Ministerial Regulation No. 31/2009 on the purchase price of electricity 
from  renewable  energy;  and  (iv)  issuing  MOF  Ministerial  Regulation  No. 
24/2010 on tax incentives for renewable energy development. 

The Borrower has improved the policy framework to promote energy efficiency 
development and investment by: (i) issuing Government Regulation No. 70 /2009 
on energy conservation; and by (ii) MEMR having developed and implemented a 
national system of energy audits for major firms in key sectors. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
5. 

 

Policy Area 2:  Adaptation and Disaster Preparedness 
 
Water Resources Sector 
 
6. 

The  Borrower  has  established  strategic  water  management  plans  in  key  river 
basins:  (i)  by  issuing  Presidential  Regulation  No.  12/2008  on  water  resource 
councils; (ii) establishing and holding meetings of the National Water Resource 
Council  (NWRC);  and  (iii)  through  MPW,  by  preparing  integrated  water 
resource management plans (POLA) with climate change assessment in national 
strategic river basins on the island of Java. 

The Borrower, through MOA, has scaled up actions to improve climate resilience 
in  agriculture  by:  (i)  developing  an  irrigation  asset  management  information 
system;  (ii)  implementing  the  System  for  Rice  Intensification  (SRI)  practice  in 
target provinces; and (iii) implementing a climate field school program in target 
provinces. 

 
Agriculture Sector 
 
7. 

 
Disaster Risk Management 

8. 

The Borrower has scaled-up actions to establish national disaster risk reduction 
and  management  system  by:  (i)  enacting  Law  No  24/2007  on  disaster 
management and issuing Presidential Regulation No. 8/2008, which established 
a National  Disaster  Management  Agency  (BNPB);   (ii) finalizing  the  National 
Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction (NAP-DRR  2010-2012) and formally 
launching such plan in February 2010; and (iii) incorporating mainstreaming of 
disaster  risk  reduction  in  the  context  of  climate  change  adaptation  into  the 
Borrower’s medium term development plan, RPJMN.  

 
Marine and Fisheries Sector 
 
9. 

The  Borrower,  through  MMAF,  has  established  systems  and  strategies  to 
improve climate preparedness and resilience in the coastal and marine sector by: 
(i)  launching  in  May  2009  the  National  Plan  of  Action  of  Coral  Triangle 
Initiative on coral reef, fisheries and food; and (ii) approving a roadmap of CTI 
actions for 2010-11 (November 2009). 

 
Policy Area 3: Cross Sectoral and Institutional Issues 
 
Mainstreaming Climate Change in the National Development Program 
 
10. 

The  Borrower,  through  BAPPENAS,  NCCC  and  MOE  has  strengthened  the 
knowledge  base  and  legal  basis  for  climate  change  action  and  linked  these  to 
national budgeting and planning processes by: (i) finalizing the Second National 

Communication  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change (and launching it on November 2009); (ii) submitting mitigation actions 
and commitments under the Copenhagen Accord (January 2010); (iii) preparing 
and  issuing  policy  documents  on  the  “Development  Planning  Response  to 
Climate  Change”  (2008)  and    (iv)  finalizing  the  Indonesia  Climate  Change 
Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR) (March  2010). 

 
Policy Coordination and Financing Scheme for Climate Change 
 
11. 

The  Borrower  has  strengthened  policy  coordination  and  developed  financing 
mechanisms  for  addressing  climate  change  by:  (i)  issuing  the  National  Action 
Plan  Addressing  Climate Change  (December  2007);  (ii)  establishing  a  National 
Council  on  Climate  Change  by  Presidential  Decree  No.  46/2008;  and                
(iii) launching the Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund (September 2009) 

 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. 

 
B. 

 

C. 

 
D. 
 

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche  from  which  the 
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of  the  Loan  proceeds.    The  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations 

Single Withdrawal Tranche 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in U.S. Dollars) 
200,000,000 
200,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions  

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
and  the  Borrower  are  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being  carried  out  by  the 
Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the  appropriateness  of  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic 
policy framework. 

E. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 

1. 

 
2.  

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 

 
F. 

G. 
 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

1. 

 

Principal Payment Date 

October 1, 2019 
April 1, 2020 
October 1, 2020 
April 1, 2021 
October 1, 2021 
April 1, 2022 
October 1, 2022 
April 1, 2023 
October 1, 2023 
April 1, 2024 
October 1, 2024 
April 1, 2025 
October 1, 2025 
April 1, 2026 
October 1, 2026 
April 1, 2027 
October 1, 2027 
April 1, 2028 
October 1, 2028 
April 1, 2029 
October 1, 2029 
April 1, 2030 
October 1, 2030 
April 1, 2031 
October 1, 2031 
April 1, 2032 
October 1, 2032 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 
3.93 
4.02 
4.12 

4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

April 1, 2033 
October 1, 2033 
April 1, 2034 
October 1, 2034 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

2.  

 

 

4. 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 

currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 
5. 

 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

2. 

 
3. 
 

“BAPPENAS”  means  Badan  Perencanaan  Pembangunan  Nasional, 
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
“CTI”  means  the  multi-national  initiative  of  nations  in  the  coral  triangle, 
including the Borrower. 

the 

 “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728 

728.43  

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 

897  

897.3 

971  

 

Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

 “General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“Government Regulation” means a Peraturan Pemerintah, a regulation signed by 
the President and issued by the government of the Borrower. 
 
“Ministerial Decree” means a Keputusan Menteri, a decree issued by a ministry 
of the government of the Borrower. 
 
“Ministerial  Regulation”  means  a  Peraturan  Menteri,  a  regulation  issued  by  a 
ministry of the government of the Borrower.  

“Ministry of Agriculture” and “MOA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 

 
4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

 
8. 

9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

19. 

20. 

 
21. 

22. 

“Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources” and “MEMR” means the Ministry 
of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

“Ministry  of  the  Environment”  and  “MOE”  means  the  Ministry  of  the 
Environment of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

“Ministry  of  Finance”  and  “MOF”  means  the  Ministry  of  Finance  of  the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Ministry  of  Forestry”  and  “MOFR”  means  the  Ministry  of  Forestry  of  the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries” and “MMAF” means the Ministry of 
Marine Affairs and Fisheries of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Ministry of Public Works” and “MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of 
the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
“National  Disaster  Management  Agency  (BNPB)”  means  the  Borrower’s 
national  disaster  management  agency,  Badan  Nasional  Penanggulangan 
Bencana, or BNPB, or any successor thereto. 
 
“NCCC”  means  the  Borrower’s  National  Council  on  Climate  Change,  Dewan 
Nasional Perubahan Iklim, and any successor thereto. 

“POLA”  means  pengelolaan  wilayah  sungai  terpadu, an  integrated  water 
resource management plan. 

 “Presidential  Decree”  means  a  Keputusan  Presiden, a decree  issued  by  the 
President of the Borrower. 

“Presidential Regulation” and “Perpres” mean a Peraturan Presiden, a regulation 
issued by the President of the Borrower. 
 
“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
support the Borrower’s program on climate change set forth or referred to in the 
letter,  dated  April  2010  (Letter  No.  MK.8/2010  and  Letter  No.  MPPN04/2010, 
from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of 
the Program during its execution. 

“REDD” means Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation. 

“RPJMN”  means  the  Rencana  Pembangunan  Jangka  Menengah  Nasional, the 
Borrower’s Medium Term Development Plan 2010 – 2014. 

23. 

24. 

“Rp.” means Rupiah, the currency of the Borrower. 
 
“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

4. 

5. 

6. 

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  

“Section  2.05.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest 
 

(a) 

If  the  Loan  Agreement  provides  for  the  repayment  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  of  an  advance  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  on  or  after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to 
repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding  balance  of  the  advance  as  at  the  date  of 
such  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  and  to  pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 

 
7. 

 

 

 

 
8. 

(c) 

…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date.  The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

 
(d) 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Loan 
in  accordance  with  Section  2.05.
Agreement  and 

repayable 

