CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7867-ID 

(Third National Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas) 
 

Loan Agreement 

 

between 
 

and 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated April 9, 2010 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  April  9,  2010,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  INDONESIA 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 

The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) (“General 
Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to  in this  Agreement, the  amount  of  seven  hundred eighty  five  million 
United States Dollars (US$785,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.   To  this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  through  MOHA,  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following:  the 
Borrower, through the PMD, shall have adopted the Project Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.  

 
4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

2

 

3

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

Cable address:   

Telex: 

 

 

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY 45799  
Jakarta   

 

DJMLN-IA  
 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address: 

Telex: 

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 

Authorized Representative 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

 

The objective of the Project is that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from 

improved socio-economic and local governance conditions. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

Part 1:  Kecamatan Grants 

(a) 

Provision of Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries to support:  

(i)  

(ii)  

(iii)  

(iv)  

(v)  

planning for community development, including the preparation of Sub-
Project proposals;  

training  and  capacity  building,  including  in  development  planning  and 
investment;  

investment  in  social  and  economic  infrastructure  identified  through 
community development planning;  

investment  in  activities  identified  through  community  development 
planning using Revolving Funds; and  

preparing  for  and  responding  to  disaster,  emergency  or  catastrophic 
event,  as  needed,  through  Sub-projects  and/or  using  the  Project 
implementation arrangements. 

(b) 

Provision of Kecamatan Grants to Beneficiaries for Pilot and Special Programs. 

Part 2:  Facilitation Support   

Provision  of  technical  advisory  services,  training  and  other  material  support,  through 
Facilitators,  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  Kabupaten  and  Kecamatan  government 
institutions and communities in development planning and investment.    

Part 3:  Implementation Support and Technical Assistance 

Provision of technical advisory services, training  and other material support for PNPM 
implementation  at  national-  Province-    Kabupaten-  and  Kecamatan-  levels,  including 
training of Facilitators, monitoring and evaluation and enhanced technical and financial 
audits. 
 

6

Part 4:  Project Management Support 

Provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and  other  material  support  to  strengthen  PMD 
and support the management of the incremental activities generated by the Project. 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

At the national level, the Borrower shall: 

A. 

1. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 

ensure  that  the  Project  shall  be  implemented  under  the  umbrella  of 
PNPM, and subject to the overall guidance of Tim Pengendali PNPM;

through  MOHA,  designate  PMD  to  be  responsible  for  the  overall 
management and monitoring of the Project at the national level; 
 
except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, cause PMD 
to: 

(i)   maintain,  until 

the  completion  of 

the  PMD 
Secretariat,  with  a  mandate,  composition  and  terms  of  reference 
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and set out in the Project 
Manual, to be responsible for the management and monitoring of 
the Project;  

the  Project, 

 
(ii)  

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

ensure that the PMD Secretariat shall be provided with adequate 
funds  and  other  resources,  and  supported  by  qualified  personnel 
in  adequate  numbers  as  needed  to  accomplish  the  objectives  of 
the  Project,  including  a  suitably  qualified    Project  Manager  and 
National Management Consultants;  

ensure  coordination,  as  necessary,  with  the  Tim  Pengendali 
PNPM; and 

in  the  event  that  PMD  decides  to  establish  more  than  one  PMD 
Secretariat,  in  consultation  with  the  Bank,  then  each  PMD 
Secretariat shall meet the requirements set out in this paragraph. 

2. 

 
At the Province level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower 
may otherwise agree: 
 
(a) 

cause to be established in each Province prior to the disbursement of any 
Kecamatan  Grant  in  such  Province,  and  thereafter  maintained  until  the 
completion of the Project, a Provincial Satker, to be responsible for the 

8

(b) 

(c) 

(b) 

(c) 

day-to-day  implementation  of  the  Project  at  the  Province-level,  with  a 
mandate, composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and 
the Borrower, and set out in the Project Manual;  
 
ensure that each Provincial Satker shall be provided with adequate funds 
and  other  resources,  and  supported  by  qualified  personnel  in  adequate 
numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including, 
a PJOK, and Oversight Consultants; and 
 
ensure that  each  Provincial  Satker shall coordinate  Project  activities,  as 
necessary,  with  the  Provincial  Poverty  Alleviation  Coordination  Team 
responsible for its respective Province. 

At the Kabupaten level, the Borrower shall, except as the Bank and the Borrower 
may otherwise agree: 
 
(a) 

cause  to  be  established  in  each  Project  Kabupaten  prior  to  the 
disbursement  of  any  Kecamatan  Grant  in  such  Project  Kabupaten,  and 
thereafter  maintained  until  the  completion  of  the  Project,  a  Kabupaten 
Satker,  to  be  responsible  for  the  day-to-day  implementation  of  the 
Project  at  the  Kabupaten  and  Kecamatan  levels,  with  a  mandate, 
composition  and  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the 
Borrower, as set out in the Project Manual;  
 
ensure that each Kabupaten Satker shall be provided with adequate funds 
and  other  resources,  and  supported  by  qualified  personnel  in  adequate 
numbers as needed to accomplish the objectives of the Project, including, 
a PJOK and Facilitators; and 
 
ensure that each Kabupaten Satker shall coordinate Project activities, as 
necessary,  with  the  Kabupaten  Poverty  Alleviation  Coordination  Team 
Team responsible for its respective area. 
 

The Borrower shall ensure that the appointment letter (surat keputusan) for each 
Provincial Satker and each Kabupaten Satker is issued in a timely manner early 
in each fiscal year of Project implementation. 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

The Borrower shall, through the PMD: 
 
(a) 

adopt, and thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, a Project 
Manual  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  giving  details  of:        
(i) implementation arrangements; (ii) procurement procedures as set forth 

 
3. 

4. 

B. 
 
1. 

9

in Section III of this Schedule and standard procurement documentation; 
(iii) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit 
procedures  as  set  forth  in  Section  II.B  of  this  Schedule;  (iv)  project 
performance indicators; (v) the Environmental Management Framework, 
the  Isolated  Vulnerable  Peoples  Framework,  and  the  Land  Acquisition 
and  Resettlement  Framework,  including  the  technical  guidelines  for 
implementation  of  such  frameworks;  (vi)  Eligibility  Criteria  for  the 
selection of Sub-projects and the terms and conditions of governing the 
Kecamatan  Grants  and  Local  Government  Participation,  including  the 
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Annex  1  to  this  Schedule;             
(vii)  maintenance  provisions  for  works  to  be  carried  out  under  a  Sub-
project; and (viii) the Better Governance Action Plan;  

adopt, prior to the commencement of Sub-project selection for any Pilot 
and Special Program or Sub-project for a natural disaster, emergency or 
catastrophic  event  under  Part  1(a)(v)  of  the  Project,  a  Supplemental 
Manual, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, as necessary to set out 
criteria and implementation arrangement unique to such Pilot and Special 
Program; 

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provisions  of  the 
Project  Manual  or  any  Supplemental  Manual  without  the  prior  written 
agreement of the Bank and the Borrower; 

ensure  that  the  Project  Manual,  and  each  Supplemental  Manual,  as 
applicable, is made available, at all times until completion of the Project, 
to each Local Government and all Oversight Consultants and Facilitators, 
and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and  

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

2. 

3. 

with the prior written agreement of the Bank, update the Project Manual, 
and  each  Supplemental  Manual,  as  necessary,  at  all  times  ensuring 
compliance thereof with the terms of this Agreement. 

 
For  the  purposes  of  providing  Kecamatan  Grants  to  Beneficiaries  under  the 
Project,  the  Borrower  shall  only  submit  an  application  for  withdrawal  of  the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) in the Table in Section IV.A of 
this Schedule to finance Sub-projects prepared and selected in accordance with 
the Eligibility Criteria set forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule, the Project Manual, 
and any applicable Supplemental Manual. 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that Facilitators are contracted, trained and mobilized 
by no later than April 30 in each year of Project implementation in accordance 
with the Project Manual. 
 

 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

8. 

9. 

 

 

 
10. 

10 

The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that, prior to carrying out Sub-project 
works, the technical Facilitators shall have completed a technical review of each 
Sub-project  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Manual  and  the  requirements  of 
Annex  1  to  this  Schedule.    The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  applicable 
Kabupaten Satker shall retain records of each such review. 
 
The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that,  prior  to  undertaking  any  activities  under  Part 
1(a)(v)  of  the  Project  with  respect  to  any  natural  disaster,  emergency  or 
catastrophic event, (a) the Bank and the Borrower have agreed in writing that a 
disaster,  emergency  and/or  catastrophic  event  requiring  support  for  such 
activities  has  occurred;  and  (b)  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  have  adopted  a 
Supplemental  Manual,  if  necessary,  which  defines  the  scope  of  such  activities, 
and their implementation and disbursement arrangements. 

The  Borrower,  through  PMD,  shall  ensure,  on  an  annual  basis  during  Project 
implementation,  that  adequate  budget  is  made  for  training  of  Facilitators  and 
Oversight  Consultants  based  on  a  training  plan  agreed  in  writing  between  the 
Bank  and  the  Borrower.    The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Facilitators 
responsible  for  Sub-projects  shall  provide  facilitation  services  until  such  Sub-
projects are completed. 

The Borrower and the Bank shall agree, by no later than June 30 in each year of 
Project  implementation,  commencing  on  the  first  June  30  to  occur  after  the 
Effective Date, on the list with each Project Kecamatan, which will be eligible 
for Sub-projects for the upcoming calendar year. 

The PMD Secretariat shall make available to the public through its website and 
in  hard  copy  at  its  office,  at  all  times  until  completion  of  the  Project,  free  of 
charge, a list of each Project Kecamatan, amounts of Kecamatan Grants and the 
Project Manual. 

The Borrower, through the PMD Secretariat will coordinate with and ensure that 
Provincial and Kabupaten Satkers arrange for the public disclosure of complaints 
and  cases  related  to  the  Project,  if  any,  and  their  handling  and  resolution, 
including through media sources and on the PNPM website.  By no later than the 
date which is two (2) months after the Effective Date, the PMD Secretariat will 
issue instructions to Provincial and Kabupaten Satkers, agreed between the PMD 
Secretariat  and  the  Bank,  which  specify  the  criteria  for  which  types  of 
complaints and cases shall be disclosed in accordance with this paragraph. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  PMD  Secretariat,  shall,  by  no  later  than  three  (3) 
months  after  the  Effective  Date,  issue  instructions  or  issue  an  updated  Project 
Manual,  acceptable  to  the  PMD  Secretariat  and  the  Bank,  to  all  Local 
Governments at the Kabupaten, Kecamatan and Province levels and to relevant 

 

 
11. 

 

12. 

 
13. 

 
C. 
 
1. 
 

11 

stakeholders defining time periods within which categories of complaints/cases 
must be resolved, to whom they should be escalated if not resolved within such 
time periods and what the consequences will be if such cases are not resolved or 
escalated in accordance with such instructions. 

The  PMD  Secretariat  shall  ensure  that  the  relevant  Camat  and  Bupati  in  each 
Project  Kecamatan  and  Project  Kabupaten  shall  make  publicly  available  by 
December 31 in each year of Project implementation, commencing on December 
31,  2010,  the  results  of  Project  implementation  and  accounts  for  funds  used 
during such year. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that,  except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  shall 
otherwise agree, auditing activities under the Project, including those referred to 
in Section II.B of this Schedule, are carried out in accordance with: (a) BPKP’s 
audit manual, dated November 30, 2007, as such manual may be amended from 
time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the  Bank  and  subject  to  its 
continued  acceptability  to  the  Bank;  and  (b)  in  accordance  with  terms  of 
reference agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank. 

With  respect  to  PNPM  rural  sub-projects  financed  from  sources  other  than  the 
Loan, including PNPM rural sub-projects for which Facilitators are financed by 
the Project but the PNPM rural sub-projects are themselves financed from such 
other sources, the PMD Secretariat shall:  
 

(i) 

(ii) 

undertake  such  sub-projects  in  accordance  with  the  Project 
Manual; and  
 
retain  responsibility  for  the  design,  construction,  fiduciary 
controls and implementation of such sub-projects. 

Environmental and Social Safeguards 

In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

ensure  that  the  proceeds  of  Kecamatan  Grants  shall  not  be  used  to 
finance the acquisition of land; 

take  measures  to avoid  or minimize  the  acquisition  of  land  or  assets  of 
villagers, and to avoid the displacement of such villagers; 

where the acquisition of land or assets, or the displacement of people is 
unavoidable  under  a  proposed  Sub-project,  ensure  that  the  Beneficiary 
shall,  before  carrying  out  the  works  which  would  result  in  such 

12 

 

3. 

to  such  people,  adequate 
acquisition  or  displacement,  provide 
compensation,  and  other  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  benefits,  in 
accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework; and 

(d) 

than 

in the case of the physical displacement of persons involving the loss of 
more 
the 
displacement of more than two hundred (200) people as a result of a Sub-
project, ensure that: 

their  productive  assets  or 

ten  percent  (10%)of 

a  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan  shall  be 
prepared 
the  Land  Acquisition  and 
Resettlement Framework, and furnished to the Bank for approval; 
and 

in  accordance  with 

prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  the  Sub-project,  ensure  that  all 
Displaced  Persons  shall  have  been  compensated  and  provided 
with  applicable  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  benefits 
in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  such  Land  Acquisition  and 
Resettlement Action Plan. 

(i) 

(ii) 

 

2. 

In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 

avoid,  and,  if  not  possible,  minimize  cultural,  social  and  economic 
adverse  effects  on  Isolated  Vulnerable  People,  caused  or  likely  to  be 
caused by the Project, by taking appropriate mitigating measures; and 

 

(b) 

through a process of informed participation, involve concerned Isolated 
Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of Sub-projects so 
as to ensure that the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People 
under the Project are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural 
preferences, and likely to protect their customary user rights. 

 
In carrying out Sub-projects, the Borrower shall ensure that the provisions of the 
Environmental  Management  Framework  have  been  complied  with  and,  where 
applicable,  an  Environmental  Management  Plan  fully  consistent  with  this 
Agreement  and  the  Environmental  Management  Framework  has  been  prepared 
and agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank upon and applied in 
the implementation of such Sub-project. 
 

13 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 

D. 

Anti-Corruption 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

Goods,  Works  and  Services  other  than  Consultants’  Services.      All  goods, 
works and services other than consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 

 
1. 

2. 

 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

14 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Services  other 
than Consultants’ Services 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods,  works  and  services  other  than  consultants’  services  shall  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  International  Competitive 
Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Services  other  than 
Consultants’  Services.
The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services other than consultants’ services.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject 

to 
procedures set out in Annex 2 to this Schedule 

the  following  additional 

(b)  Shopping 
(c)   Direct Contracting 
(d)      Community  Participation  using  procedures  acceptable  to the  Bank  as  set 

out in the Project Manual 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

15 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality Based Selection 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)   Least Cost Selection 
(d)   Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(e)   Single-source Selection 
(e)   Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 

for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

(g)   Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

(1)  Kecamatan Grants under Part 1(a) of 
the Project 

629,180,000 
 

 

 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 

 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

80% of Kecamatan 
Grant amount 
disbursed 

16 

 

B. 
 
1. 

(2)  Kecamatan Grants under Part 1(b) of 

54,820,000 

the Project 

100% of Kecamatan 
Grant amount 
disbursed 

 
100% 

76,000,000 

(3)  Consultants services, goods, training 
and workshops, and incremental 
operating costs* for facilitation 
support under Part 2 of the Project 

 
(4)  Consultants services, goods, training 
and workshops, and incremental 
operating costs for implementation 
support and technical assistance 
under Part 3 of the Project 

 
(5)  Consultants services, goods, training 
and workshops, and incremental 
operating costs for Project 
management support under Part 4 of 
the Project 

 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

23,000,000 

100% 

2,000,000 

100% 

785,000,000 

 

*For the purposes of this Table: (i) “training and workshops” means Project-related training 
and  workshops  conducted  in  the  territory  of  the  Borrower,  including  purchase  and 
publication  of  materials,  rental  of  facilities,  course  fees,  and  travel  and  subsistence  of 
trainees; and (ii) “incremental operating costs” means reasonable costs arising under the 
Project  on  account  of  local  contractual  support  staff  salaries;  travel  and  other  travel-
related expenditures; equipment rental and maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance 
and  repair;  office  rental  and  maintenance;  materials  and  supplies;  and  utilities  and 
communications expenses, but excluding salaries an honoraria of officials and staff of the 
Borrower.  

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

(a)  

(b)   

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or  

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $157,000,000 

 

17 

equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after February 10, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 

2. 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2012. 

 

A. 
 
1. 

2. 

18 

ANNEX 1 to SCHEDULE 2 

 
Terms and Conditions for Sub-projects and Kecamatan Grants 
 

Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects 

(a)  

Kecamatan  Grants  may  be  provided  for:  (i)  planning;(ii)  training;  and 
(iii) investment may to support investment proposals presented on behalf 
of  communities  to  finance  economic  or  social  infrastructure  activities 
pertaining to Sub-projects other than those which are prohibited pursuant 
to  paragraphs  2-4  of  this  Section  A  of  this  Annex,  provided,  however, 
that such Sub-projects: 

(i)   

are  technically  and  financially  feasible,  and  capable  of  being 
implemented  by  the  communities  themselves  with  only  locally 
available technical assistance; and 

(ii) 

are of benefit to the communities, and to the poor in particular; 
and respond to a public need. 

(b) 

The amount of each Kecamatan Grant shall be calculated in accordance 
with the Decree of the Coordinating Minister for People’s Welfare (No. 
B.192/MENKO/KESRA/X/2009, dated October 12, 2009) and the Surat 
Menteri  Dalam  Negeri  (No.414/0012/PMD,  dated  January  5,  2010  and 
No.414.2/276/PMD, dated January 25, 2010), as such decree and letters 
may  be  revised  or  re-issued  from  time  to  time  with  the  concurrence  of 
the Bank. 

(c) 

religious  purposes; 

No  Kecamatan  Grant  shall  be  made  to  finance  expenditures  pertaining  to  or 
involving: (a) a military or paramilitary purpose; (b) civil works for government 
the  manufacture  or  use  of 
administration  or 
environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides and herbicides), 
arms  or  drugs;  (d)  the  manufacture  or  use  of  dynamite;  (e)  the  financing  of 
government salaries; (f) the production, processing, handling, storage or sale of 
tobacco or products containing tobacco; (g) activities within a nature reserve or 
any  other  area  designated  by  the  Borrower  for  the  management  and/or  the 
protection  of  biodiversity,  except  with  the  prior  written  approval  of  the 
Borrower’s  agency  responsible  for  the  management  and/or  protection  of  such 
area; (h) mining or excavation of live coral; (i) water resources development on 
rivers which flow into or out of another country; (j) alterations to river courses; 
(k) land reclamation covering an area in excess of 50 hectares; (l) new irrigation 
schemes covering an area in excess of 50 hectares; (m) the construction of water 

 

3. 

4. 

5. 

1. 

2. 

19 

retaining or storage structures of a capacity greater than 10,000 cubic meters; or 
(n) the provision of goods, works or services, directly or through intermediaries, 
by  suppliers  or  contractors,  as  the  case  may  be,  who  have  been  declared 
ineligible  to  participate  in  the  procurement  of  any  Bank-financed  or  Bank-
financed contract, whether indefinitely or for a stated period of time, as a result 
of a decision of the Bank, and in accordance with the terms of the decision; or (o) 
to finance land acquisition. 

No  Kecamatan  Grant  shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan  unless  Facilitator(s)  are  engaged  and  carry  out  their  functions  in  such 
Kecamatan  accordance  with  the  Project  Manual  for  a  cumulative  period  of  at 
least eight (8) months in each fiscal year. 

No  Kecamatan  Grant  shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan for a Pilot and Special Program unless the Borrower shall have adopted a 
Supplemental  Manual  for  such  Pilot  and  Special  Program  acceptable  to  the 
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  or  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  have  agreed  in 
writing  that  a  Supplemental  Manual  is  not  required  for  such  Pilot  and  Special 
Program.   

No  Kecamatan  Grant  shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan  for  Part  1(a)(v)  of  the  Project  with  respect  to  any  natural  disaster, 
emergency  or  catastrophic  event  unless:  (a)  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  have 
agreed in writing that a disaster, emergency and/or catastrophic event requiring 
support for such activities has occurred; and (b) the Bank and the Borrower have 
adopted  a  Supplemental  Manual,  if  necessary,  which  defines  the  scope  of  such 
activities, and their implementation and disbursement arrangements. 

B. 

Sub-project Review and Selection 

The Borrower shall ensure that each Sub-project is the subject of a corresponding 
proposal for a Kecamatan Grant that has been prepared, submitted and reviewed 
in  accordance  with  the  guidelines,  procedures  and  selection  criteria  set  forth  in 
the Project Manual and this Annex.  

The Borrower, through PMD, shall ensure that, with respect to each Sub-project 
and  prior  to  carrying  out  Sub-project  works,  a  technical  Facilitator  shall  have 
completed a technical review of each Sub-project in accordance with the Project 
Manual and the requirements of this Annex to ensure that all requirements have 
been complied with, including, except as may be otherwise agreed in writing by 
the Bank and the Borrower: 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

(e) 

 
(b) 

 

20 

necessary  funding  to  fully  finance  the  proposed  Sub-project  has  been 
including  a  Kecamatan  Grant,  any  Local  Government 
obtained, 
Participation  and  any  additional  contributions 
to  be  made  by 
communities themselves or from other sources; 

the provisions of the Environmental Management Framework have been 
complied  with  and,  where  applicable,  an  Environmental  Management 
Plan  fully  consistent  with  this  Agreement  and  the  Environmental 
Management  Framework  has  been  prepared  and  agreed  upon  and 
adopted; 

the  provisions  of  the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Framework 
have been complied with and, where applicable, a Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement  Action  Plan  fully  consistent  with  this  Agreement  and  the 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, and deemed satisfactory 
to the Displaced Persons, has been agreed upon and adopted; 

the  provisions  of 
Framework, if applicable, has been complied with; and 

the  Isolated  Vulnerable  People  Development 

a maintenance program for works to be carried out under the Sub-project 
and related goods has been prepared. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Kabupaten Satker shall retain records of each 
such review. 

Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements 

C. 
 

1.  Prior  to  the  commencement  of  any  Sub-project  or  the  disbursement  of  any 

Kecamatan Grant:  
 
(a) 

a Sub-project Agreement shall be signed between the relevant PJOK, on 
behalf of the Local Government, and the Project Kecamatan, through the 
UPK, with respect to the transfer of funds from the central government 
account to the UPK, and 

 between  the  UPK  and  the  Beneficiary,  setting  forth  the  respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, including: 

(i) 

that the Beneficiary shall carry out the Sub-project in accordance 
with  this  Agreement,  the  Project  Manual,  any  applicable 
Supplemental  Manual,  the  provisions  of  the  Better  Governance 
Action  Plan,  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to 
recipients  of  Loan  proceeds  other  than  the  Borrower,  the 

21 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

Environmental  Management  Framework,  the  Land  Acquisition 
and  Resettlement  Framework  and  the  Isolated  Vulnerable 
Peoples Framework; 
 
the requirement that each Beneficiary procure the goods, works 
and services to be financed out of the Sub-project in accordance 
with  provisions  that  are  fully  consistent  with    the  provisions  of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 

that  the  Beneficiary  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of 
the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual; 

that  the  Beneficiary  shall  maintain  a  financial  management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Manual  and  prepare 
financial  statements  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; and at the Bank’s 
or the Borrower’s request, have such financial statements audited 
by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank  in  accordance 
with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the 
Bank,  and  promptly  furnish  the  statements  as  so  audited  to  the 
Borrower and the Bank;  

that the Beneficiary enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect 
the  Sub-project,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and 
documents;  and  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and  the 
Bank  all  such  information  as  the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing;  

rights  adequate  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the 
Bank,  including  the  right  of  the  PJOK  to:  (A)  suspend  or 
terminate  the  right  of  the  UPK  or  the  Beneficiary  to  use  the 
proceeds  of  Kecamatan  Grant; or  (B)  obtain  a  refund  of  the 
Kecamatan Grant upon the failure of the UPK or the Beneficiary 
to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Sub-project 
Agreement. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 

 

1. 

General

ANNEX 2 to SCHEDULE 2 
 
Clarifications Relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 

The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth 
in  Presidential  Decree  No.80/2003  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  with  the  clarifications 
and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Loans” dated 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 

Registration

Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a condition 

(a) 
for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b)  Where  registration  is  required  prior  to  award  of  contract,  bidders:  (i)  shall  be 
allowed  a  reasonable  time  to  complete  the  registration  process;  and  (ii)  shall  not  be 
denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully 
perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
 
3. 

Pre-qualification

Eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification.  

Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works.  Normally, post-
(a) 
qualification shall be used.  Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or complex 
works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the World Bank.  When pre-qualification shall be 
required. 
 
(b) 
 
Invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
(c) 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
 
4. 

Joint Ventures

A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a 
joint venture or to sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition 
of award of the contract. 
 
5. 

Preferences

(a) 

No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 

 

23 

(b) 
Regulations  issued  by  a  sectoral  ministry,  provincial  regulations  and  local 
regulations,  which  restrict  national  competitive  bidding  procedures  to  a  class  of 
contractors  or  a  class  of  suppliers  shall  not  be  applicable  to  procurement  procedures 
under the Loan or the Loan. 
 
6. 

Advertising

Bid  documents  shall  be  made  available,  by  mail  or  in  person,  to  all  who  are 

Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
(a) 
daily  newspaper  allowing  a  minimum  of  thirty  (30)  days  for  the  preparation  and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
twenty-four (24) hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
willing to pay the required fee. 
 
Bidders  domiciled  outside  the  area/district/province  of  the  unit  responsible  for 
(c) 
procurement  shall  be  allowed  to  participate  regardless  of  the  estimated  value  of  the 
contract. 
 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a registration process is 
(d) 
required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity for registering. 
 
7. 

Bid Security

Bid  security,  at  the  bidder’s  option,  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  letter  of  Loan  or  bank 
guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 

Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation

Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
(a) 
bids,  and  if  bids  are  invited  in  two  (2)  envelopes,  both  envelopes  (technical  and  price) 
shall be opened at the same time. 
 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the 
(b) 
bidding  documents  and  contracts  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive 
bidder. 
 
(c) 
non-substantial deviations. 
 
(d) 
estimate and budget ceiling without the World Bank’s prior concurrence. 

Bidders  shall  not  be  eliminated from  detailed  evaluation on  the  basis of  minor, 

No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 

24 

 

9. 

Rejection of Bids

All  bids  shall  not  be rejected  and  new  bids  solicited without  the  World  Bank’s 

(a) 
prior concurrence. 
 
(b)  When the number of responsive bids is less than three (3), re-bidding shall not be 
carried out without the World Bank’s prior concurrence. 

25 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 
3.93 

 
1. 

 

 

April 1, 2019 
October 1, 2019 
April 1, 2020 
October 1, 2020 
April 1, 2021 
October 1, 2021 
April 1, 2022 
October 1, 2022 
April 1, 2023 
October 1, 2023 
April 1, 2024 
October 1, 2024 
April 1, 2025 
October 1, 2025 
April 1, 2026 
October 1, 2026 
April 1, 2027  
October 1, 2027 
April 1, 2028 
October 1, 2028 
April 1, 2029 
October 1, 2029 
April 1, 2030 
October 1, 2030 
April 1, 2031 

 

 

 

October 1, 2031 
April 1, 2032 
October 1, 2032 
April 1, 2033 
October 1, 2033 
April 1, 2034 

26 

4.02 
4.12 
4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

(a) 

 
(b) 

(b) 

 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

4. 

 
5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

27 

 

28 

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

Section I.   
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Bappenas” means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, the Borrower’s 
National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 

“Beneficiary”  means  a  Village,  represented  by  its  PNPM  implementation  team 
(tim pelaksanaan kegiatan) or other entity meeting the requirements set out in the 
Project  Manual  which  is  the  beneficiary  of  a  Kecamatan  Grant  and  party  to  a 
Sub-project Agreement, and “Beneficiaries” means more than one Beneficiary. 

“Better  Governance  Action  Plan”  means  a  stand-alone  chapter  of  the  Project 
Manual designed to integrate the contents of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and 
to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, measures and 
policies  designed  to  reduce  or  eliminate  fraud  and  corruption  in  all  its  forms 
under  the  Project,  including  enhanced  information  disclosure  provisions,  civil 
society  oversight  provisions,  mitigation  measures  to  deal  with  the  risks 
associated  with  collusion,  forgery  and  fraud,  a  complaint  handling  mechanism, 
and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies, and included as applicable 
in each Sub-project Agreement. 
 
“BPKP” means Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the Borrower’s 
Financial and Development Supervisory Agency, or any successor thereto. 
 
 “Bupati” means the head of a Kabupaten. 
 
“Camat” means the Kabupaten official at the Kecamatan level. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Displaced  Person”  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 

 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 
 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 

 
11. 

12. 

 
13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

29 

shelter;  (ii)  loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and 
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 

“Eligible  Expenditures”  means  the  expenditures  for  goods,  works  and  services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
 
“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria for a Kecamatan Grant, as set out in this 
Agreement, the Project Manual and any relevant Supplemental Manual 

the  Environmental 
“Environmental  Management  Framework”  means 
Management  Framework,  dated  November  15,  2008,    and  the  technical 
guidelines for implementation thereof, adopted by the Borrower, giving details of 
a program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits of 
the  Project, eliminate, offset  or  mitigate  any  adverse environmental  impacts, or 
reduce  such  impacts  to  acceptable  levels,  as  such  Environmental  Management 
Framework may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement 
of the Bank. 

“Environmental  Management  Plan”  or  “EMP”  means  an  Environmental 
Management Plan, acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and consistent with 
the Environmental Management Framework, adopted for the purposes of a Sub-
project,  and  giving  details  of  the  agreed  actions  and  policies  designed  to 
maximize  the  benefits  of  the  Sub-project,  eliminate  or  offset  any  adverse 
environmental  impacts,  or reduce  such impacts to acceptable  levels,  along  with 
the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions and 
policies. 

“Facilitator” means a technical or social specialist financed by the proceeds of the 
Loan  and  assigned  to  work  with  Villages  to  facilitate  their  participation  in  the 
Project, and “Facilitators” means more than one Facilitator. 

“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31.  

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 

30 

 

18. 

 
19. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

 “Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that have a 
distinct  social  and  cultural  identity,  and  that  are  susceptible  to  being 
disadvantaged  in  the  development  process  induced  by  the  Project  or  any  part 
thereof. 

“Isolated Vulnerable Peoples Framework” means the Isolated Vulnerable Peoples 
Framework acceptable to the Bank, dated November 15, 2009, and the technical 
guidelines  for  implementation  thereof,  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  and  giving 
details  of  the  rules,  guidelines  and  procedures  needed  to:  (a)  involve  Isolated 
Vulnerable People, through a process of informed consultation, in the design and 
implementation of Sub-projects in locations in which such people reside or make 
their  living;  and  (b)  design  and  implement  measures  to  provide  benefits  which 
are  socially  and  culturally  acceptable  to  them,  and  reduce,  mitigate  and  offset 
adverse 
Isolated  Vulnerable  People 
Development  Framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior 
written agreement of the Bank. 

impacts  of  Sub-projects,  as  such 

20. 

“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative sub-division of a Province.  

local 
“Kapubaten  Poverty  Alleviation  Coordination  Team”  means 
government-level  working  group  established  under  Perpres  13/2009  in  each 
Project  Kabupaten,  Project  Kecamatan  or  Project  Village,  or  any  successor 
thereto. 

the 

“Kabupaten  Satker”  means  each  project  management  unit  established  and 
operating at the Kabupaten level in accordance with Section 3 of Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Kecamatan”  means  a  sub-district,  an  administrative  sub-division  of  a 
Kabupaten. 

“Kecamatan Grant” means a grant made or to be made out of the proceeds of the 
Loan for the purposes of Part 1 of the Project and meeting the requirements set out 
in this Agreement, the Project Manual and any relevant Supplemental Manual, and 
“Kecamatan Grants” means more than one Kecamatan Grant. 

“Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan”  means  a  resettlement  and 
rehabilitation  action  plan, acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  consistent  with  the  Land 
Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Framework,  adopted  for  the  purposes  of  a  Sub-
project,  and  giving  details  of 
the  agreed  provisions  for  compensation, 
rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced  Persons  under  the  Sub-

 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

31 

project,  along  with  the  procedural  and  institutional  measures  needed  to 
implement such agreed provisions. 

“Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Framework”  means  the  Land  Acquisition 
and Resettlement Framework acceptable to the Bank, dated November 15, 2009, 
and the technical guidelines for implementation thereof, adopted by the Borrower, 
and giving details of provisions for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
assistance  to  Displaced  Persons,  as  such  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement 
Framework may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 

“Local  Government”  means  the  government  of  a  Project  Kabupaten  or  a  Project 
Kecamatan, and “Local Governments” means more than one Local Government. 

“Local Government Participation” means Local Government funding contributed 
to the total Sub-project cost for participating in the Project, to be made available 
by  the  government  of  the  relevant  Province  or  Project  Kabupaten  to  a  Project 
Kecamatan  for  a  Sub-project  in  accordance  with  the  formula  set  forth  in  the 
Project Manual. 

“Menko  Kesra”  means  the  Borrower’s  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Peoples’ 
Welfare, and any successor thereto. 

“Ministry  of  Finance”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Finance,  and  any 
successor thereto. 

 “MOHA”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs,  or  any  successor 
thereto. 

“National  Management  Consultants”  means  the  consultants,  financed  by  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan,  assigned  at  the  central  level  to  assist  in  Project 
implementation and monitoring. 

 
“Oversight Consultants” means consultant, financed by the proceeds of the Loan, 
assigned at the Province level to assist in Project implementation and monitoring. 
 

“P2SPP”  means  Progam  Pengembangan  Sistem  Pembangunan  Partisipatif, the 
PMD’s program for development of a system for participatory development. 
 

35. 

“Part” means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 

36. 
 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 
 

43. 

44. 

32 

“Perpres” means a Peraturan Presiden, a presidential regulation. 

“Pilot  and  Special  Program”  means  each  Sub-project  under  Part  1(b)  of  the 
Project, which will provide planning, training and investment related to defined 
activities of particular local interest agreed in writing between the Borrower and 
the  Bank,  which  may  include:  crisis  response  including  responding  to  natural 
disasters;  activities  related  to  millennium  development  goal  indicators  for 
poverty,  reduction,  education  and  health  (“PNPM  Generasi”);  support  for 
community investments in environmental and natural resource management; and 
support  local  government  community  development  projects  run  in  tandem  with 
the  Project  (“PNPM  Integrasi/P2SPP”);  and  supporting  community  activities  in 
national border areas, in each case subject to the terms and conditions set out in 
the Project Manual and any applicable Supplemental Manual. 

“PJOK”  means  a  Project  operations  officer  at  the  Province,  Kabupaten  or 
Kecamatan  level  established  in  accordance  with  paragraphs  2(b)  and  3(b)  of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and “PJOKs” means more than one 
PJOK. 

“PMD” means Pemberdayaan Masyarakat dan Desa, the Directorate General for 
Community Empowerment of MOHA, or any successor thereto. 

“PMD Secretariat” means the PMD Secretariat referred to in paragraph 1(c)(i) of 
Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“PNPM”  means  Program  Nasional  Pemberdayaan  Masyarakat  Mandiri, the 
Borrower’s  National    Program  for  Community  Empowerment,  as  described  in 
Perpres 13/2009, as the same may be amended or updated from time to time. 
 

“PNPM Website” means the Project website maintained by PMD. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October  2006. 

 “Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated February 24, 2010 (Letter No. 414.2/184/PNPM-MP/II/2010, and referred 
to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of  the 

33 

Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project Kabupaten” means a Kabupaten which is selected by the Borrower for 
participation  in  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Project 
Manual. 

“Project Kecamatan” means a Kecamatan located in a Project Kabupaten which 
is selected by the Borrower for participation in the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Manual. 

“Project  Manual”  means  the  Project  Manual  meeting  the  requirements  of 
paragraph  1  of  Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  such  Project 
Manual  may  be  amended  or  updated  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written 
agreement  of  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  and  includes,  where  applicable  for  a 
particular Sub-project, each relevant Supplemental Manual. 

“Project Village” means a Village selected by the Borrower for participation in 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual. 

“Province”  means  an  administrative  sub-division  of  the  Borrower’s  territory  at 
the first level below the national level.  

“Provincial  Poverty  Alleviation  Coordination  Team”  means  the  province-level 
working  group  established  under  Perpres  13/2009  in  each  Province,  or  any 
successor thereto. 

“Provincial  Satker”  means  each  Province  level  project  management  unit 
established  and  operating  in  accordance  with  paragraph  2  of  Section  I.A  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

52. 

“Rupiah” and “Rp” mean the currency of the Borrower.  

“Satker” means satuan kerja, a Project management unit, whether at central level 
or at the level of the Province or Kabupaten. 

“State  Ministry  for  Development  of  Disadvantaged  Regions”  means  the 
Borrower’s State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged Regions, and any 
successor thereto. 

 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

53. 

 
54. 

34 

 

55. 

56. 

57. 

58. 

59. 

60. 

“Sub-project“ means an activity qualifying for financing by a Kecamatan Grant 
in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  this  Agreement,  the  Project  Manual  and  any 
relevant  Supplemental  Manual,  and  “Sub-projects”  means  more  than  one  Sub-
project. 

“Sub-project  Agreement”  means  an  agreement  between  a  PJOK  and  a  UPK  or 
between a UPK and a Beneficiary for purposes of a Sub-project, and referred to 
in  Section  C  of  Annex  1  to  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and  “Sub-project 
Agreements” means more than one Sub-project Agreement. 

“Supplemental  Manual”  means  each  Supplemental  Manual  for  a  Pilot  and 
Special  Program  and  each  natural  disaster,  emergency  or  catastrophic  event 
under  Part  1(a)(v)  of  the  Project  meeting  the  requirements  of  Section  I.B.1  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  each  such  Supplemental  Manual  may  be 
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank. 

“Tim  Pengendali  PNPM”  means  the  national-level  oversight  body  of  PNPM, 
chaired  by  Menko  Kesra  (Tim  Pengendali  PNPM),  with  representatives  of 
relevant  ministries,  including  BAPPENAS,  MOHA,  Ministry  of  Finance, 
Ministry of Public Works, and State Ministry for Development of Disadvantaged 
Regions, and any successor thereto. 

“UPK”  means  a  Kecamatan  management  unit  established  and  operating  in  a 
Kecamatan, and “UPKs” means more than one UPK. 

 
“Village” means an administrative subdivision of a Kecamatan. 

Section II. 

Modifications to the General Conditions 

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Bank has declared the Borrower (other 
than  the  Member  Country)  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  ineligible  to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole 
or in part by the Bank or the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank or 
the  Bank  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of 
the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank.” 

35 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read 

(a) 
as follows: 

 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

2. 

 

 

 

