CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7887-MX 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Upper Secondary Education Development Policy Loan) 
 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 9, 2010                               

LOAN NUMBER      7887-MX 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement  dated  June  9,  2010,  entered  into  between  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES 
(“Borrower”) represented by Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, its Ministry of Finance 
and  Public  Credit  (SCHP)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and  which  are  described  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth in the 
table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program), 
shall  be  used  in  conformity  with  the  requirements  of  the  Borrower’s  income,  budgetary  and 
public  debt  laws  and  the terms  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby  agree  as 
follows: 

 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  seven  hundred  million  Dollars  ($700,000,000),  as 
such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy 
framework  and  its  satisfactory  implementation  of  the  Program,  the  Borrower  may 
withdraw or may cause NAFIN to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section  II  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement.  Unless  the  Borrower’s  representative 
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower’s 
representative  for  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be  taken 
pursuant  to  this  Section  is  the  Director  de  Organismos  Financieros  Internacionales  of 
NAFIN or any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in writing. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

(0.25%).  

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions 
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of  this  Article  II  as  the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The Borrower (through SEP) declares its commitment to the Program and its  results.  To 

this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

 

-2- 

3.02. 

 
(a)  
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic framework and the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Program; 

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of  views,  the  Borrower  (through  NAFIN)  shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved 
in the implementation of the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the  Borrower  shall  or  shall  cause  NAFIN  to  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

The  Borrower,  through  SHCP,  shall  enter  into  a  contract  (Contrato  de 
Mandato) among SHCP, SEP and NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 

(i) 

NAFIN  agrees  to  act  as  financial  agent  of  the  Borrower  with  regard  to 
the  Loan,  meaning  that,  inter  alia, NAFIN  agrees  to  represent  the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications  to  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  sufficient  to  justify 
disbursement  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  of  Loan  proceeds  in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 

(ii) 

the Borrower, through SHCP and SEP, shall cooperate fully with NAFIN 
to ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 

(b) 

The Borrower, through SHCP and SEP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations  under  the  Contrato  de  Mandato  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of any conflict between the terms 
of  the  Contrato  de  Mandato  and  those  of  this  Agreement,  the  terms  of  this 
Agreement shall prevail. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-3- 

(b) 

(c) 

 

The  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy  framework  has,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 

An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

(a)  the Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto; and  

(b)  The  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  results  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the  Borrower 
(through  separate legal  opinions from  SHCP  and  SEP)  and  NAFIN  (in  a  separate legal 
opinion  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  issued  by  NAFIN  counsel  acceptable  to  the  Bank), 
indicate  that  the  Contrato  de  Mandato  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and 
executed  and  delivered  on  behalf  of,  the  Borrower  and  NAFIN  and  is  legally  binding 
upon the Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato’s terms. 

 
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 
11, 2011.  

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s representative is the 

Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. 

 
6.02.  Unless the Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 above otherwise informs 
the  Bank,  the  Borrower’s  Address  for  the  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of  the  General 
Conditions is: 

Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
Palacio Nacional 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 

Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

-4- 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES 

By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa  
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 

Authorized Representative 

 

-5- 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 

1.  The  Borrower,  through  SEP,  has  established  a  National  Upper  Secondary  Education 
System  and  established  the  institutional  basis  of  said  system,  as  evidenced  by  the 
State Agreements.  
 

2.  The Borrower, through SEP, has established the set of minimum competences by subject 
that students need to achieve by the end of upper secondary education in the National 
Upper Secondary Education System, as evidenced by Agreement 486, issued by SEP, 
and published in the Official Gazette on April 30, 2009. 

 

 

 

 

3.  The Borrower, through SEP, has established a national evaluation system for the National 
Upper  Secondary  Education  System,  as  evidenced  by  the  coordination  guidelines 
agreed  between  the  Borrower’s  Under-Ministry  for  upper  secondary  education  and 
INEE dated July 24, 2009. 

4.  The  Borrower,  through  SEP,  in collaboration  with  UPN  and  ANNUIES,  has  developed 
an Upper Secondary Education Teacher Training Program (Programa de Formación 
Docente  de  Educación  Media  Superior  –PROFORDEMS) which  is  benefiting 
teachers from all States, as evidenced by the execution agreement celebrated between 
SEP, ANUIES and CONALEP dated January 27, 2009 and a letter dated March 19, 
2010 from SEP’s Coordinator of Academic Development (in SEP’s Under-Ministry 
for  Upper  Secondary  Education)  detailing  the  amount  of  teachers  that  have  been 
certified in each State.  

5.  The Borrower, through SEP, has decided to establish a civil association (COPEEMS) to 
evaluate the entry of schools in the National Upper Secondary Education System, and 
has  issued  the  guidelines  for  the  by-laws  of  said  civil  association,  as  evidenced  by 
Agreement  No.  3  of  the  Borrower’s  Executive  Committee  for  the  National  Upper 
Secondary Education System dated August 26, 2009. 

6.  The  Borrower,  through  SEP,  has  consolidated  its  scholarship  programs  targeting  poor 
students  who  are  not  covered  by  the  Oportunidades  Program  or  by  any  other 
scholarship  program  of  the  Borrower,  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower’s  SEP 
Agreement 479 published in the Official Gazette on December 31, 2008. 

 

A. 

Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.    The  Borrower  may,  or  may  cause  NAFIN  to  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 

 

-6- 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee and any Premia for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars) is allocated in a 
single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan 
proceeds.   The  allocation of  the  amounts  of  the  Loan  to  this end is  set  out  in  the  table 
below: 

Allocations

Single Withdrawal Tranche 

Front-end Fee 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

698,250,000 

1,750,000 

0

C.

 
Withdr
awal 
Tranch
e
Release 
Conditi
ons. 

Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars (amounts due under section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement) 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

No 
withdra
wal 
shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the 
Program carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 

700,000,000 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 

 
2.  

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower’s  budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with  its  laws  and  shall  not  use  them  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If  the  Bank 
determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 

B. 

 

 
D. 

 
E. 

F. 
 

 

 

-7- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 
 

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December 15, 2027. 

-8- 

 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions

 

1. 

 
2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 
 

“ANUIES”  means  Asociación  Nacional  de  Universidades  e  Instituciones  de  Educación 
Superior  de  la  República  Mexicana,  A.C., (National  Association  of  Universities  and 
Institutions  for  Tertiary  Education  of  the  Mexican  Republic),  a  civil  association 
constituted and registered under the laws of the Borrower. 

“CONALEP”  means  Colegio  Nacional  de  Educación  Profesional  Técnica  (National 
School  for  Technical  Education),  a  decentralized  public  entity  of  the  Borrower,  with 
separate  legal  personality,  created  by  a  Borrower’s  Decree  published  in  the  Official 
Gazette on December 29, 1978 (as amended by an amendment dated November 22, 1993 
published in the Official Gazette on November 22 1993 December 8, 1993). 

“Contrato  de  Mandato” means  the  contract  referred  to  in  Section  3.02(a)  of  this 
Agreement. 

“COPEEMS” means Consejo para la Evaluación de la Educación Media Superior, A.C. 
(National Council for the Evaluation of Upper Secondary Education), a civil association 
of the Borrower. 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 

-9- 

 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728.43  

897.3 

Group
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

728 

897  

971  

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of  the  Borrower  or  other 
recipient  of  the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient) 
having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  address 
such practices when they occur. 

6. 

 
for  Reconstruction  and 
“General  Conditions”  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

the  “International  Bank 

-10- 

 

7. 

8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 
 
17. 

“INEE”  means  Instituto  Nacional  para  la  Evaluación  de  la  Educación, the  Borrower’s 
National  Institute  for  the  Evaluation  of  Education,  a  decentralized  public  entity  of  the 
Borrower,  created  through  a  Borrower’s  Decree  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on 
August 8, 2002. 

“NAFIN”  means Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Mexican development bank serving as 
the  Borrower’s  financial  agent  for  purposes  of  the  Loan,  or  any  successor  thereto 
acceptable to the Bank. 

“National  Upper  Secondary  Education  System”  means  the  Borrower’s  national  upper 
secondary  education  system  (Sistema  Nacional  de  Bachillerato) created  by  Agreement 
442, issued by SEP, and published in the Official Gazette on September 26, 2008. 

“Official  Gazette”  means  the  Diario  Oficial  de  la  Federación, the  Borrower’s  official 
gazette. 

“Oportunidades Program” means the Borrower’s program to assist poor families through 
the provision of cash transfers conditional on compliance with the conditions referred to 
in the operational rules in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 29, 2009. 

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support the 
reform to the Borrower’s national upper secondary education system set forth in the letter 
dated  March  18,  2010  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank,  which  includes  measures 
implemented by the Borrower during 2008 and 2009 (as described in Schedule 1, Section 
1 to this Loan Agreement) declaring the Borrower’s commitment thereto.  

“SEP”  means  Secretaría  de  Educación  Pública,  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Public 
Education. 

“SHCP”  means  Secretaría  de  Hacienda  y  Crédito  Público, the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of 
Finance and Public Credit. 

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category 
entitled  “Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“State” means any of the geopolitical subdivisions (Estados) of the Borrower.  

“State Agreements” means (i) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, 
the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Aguascalientes dated January 5, 2009; (ii) 
the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and 
the State of Baja California Sur dated August 17, 2009; (iii) the agreement entered into 
between,  among  other  parties,  the  Borrower,  through  SEP,  and  the  State  of  Campeche 
dated  May  11, 2009;  (iv)  the  agreement  entered  into between,  among  other parties, the 
Borrower,  through  SEP,  and  the  State  of  Chiapas  dated  February  23,  2009;  (v)  the 
agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the 
State of Chihuahua dated July 13, 2009; (vi) the agreement entered into between, among 
other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Coahuila dated February 27, 

-11- 

 

2009;  (vii)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other  parties,  the  Borrower, 
through  SEP,  and  the  State  of  Colima  dated  February  10,  2009;  (viii)  the  agreement 
entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of 
Durango dated August 26, 2009; (ix) the agreement entered into between, among other 
parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Mexico dated June 30, 20009; (x) 
the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and 
the  State  of  Guanajuato  dated  May  6,  2009;  (xi)  the  agreement  entered  into  between, 
among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Guerrero dated May 6, 
2009;  (xii)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other  parties,  the  Borrower, 
through  SEP,  and  the  State  of  Hidalgo  dated  September  2,  2009;  (xiii)  the  agreement 
entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of 
Jalisco  dated  May  6,  2009;  (xiv)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other 
parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Michoacán dated September 1, 2009; 
(xv)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other  parties,  the  Borrower,  through 
SEP,  and  the  State  of  Morelos  dated  June  30,  2009;  (xvi)  the  agreement  entered  into 
between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Nayarit dated 
May  20,  2009;  (xvii)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other  parties,  the 
Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Nuevo Leon dated August 12, 2009; (xviii) the 
agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the 
State  of  Oaxaca  dated  September  15,  2009;  (xix)  the  agreement  entered  into  between, 
among  other  parties,  the  Borrower, through  SEP,  and  the  State of  Puebla  dated August 
17,  2009; (xx) the  agreement  entered  into  between, among  other  parties, the  Borrower, 
through SEP, and the State of Queretaro dated June 22, 2009; (xxi) the agreement entered 
into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Quintana 
Roo  dated  September  7,  2009;  (xxii)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other 
parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of San Luis Potosi dated July 6, 2009; 
(xxiii) the agreement  entered  into between, among  other  parties, the  Borrower, through 
SEP, and the State of Sinaloa dated August 25, 2009; (xxiv) the agreement entered into 
between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Sonora dated 
November 30, 2009, (xxv) the agreement entered into between, among other parties, the 
Borrower,  through  SEP,  and  the  State  of  Tabasco  dated  August  26,  2009;  (xxvi)  the 
agreement entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the 
State of Tamaulipas dated August 25, 2009; (xxvii) the agreement entered into between, 
among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Tlaxcala dated May 21, 
2009;  (xxviii)  the  agreement  entered  into  between,  among  other  parties,  the  Borrower, 
through  SEP,  and  the  State  of  Veracruz  dated  May  20,  2009;  (xxix)  the  agreement 
entered into between, among other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of 
Yucatan dated December 12, 2008; and (xxx) the agreement entered into between, among 
other parties, the Borrower, through SEP, and the State of Zacatecas dated May 6, 2009. 

“UPN”  means  Universidad  Pedagógica  Nacional  (National  Pedagogic  University),  a 
public university of the Borrower. 

 
18. 

 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

-12- 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 

 

 
7. 

The  last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 

Sections  5.01  (Project  Execution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial  Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above  and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above)  is 
modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above)  is 
modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of  such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their 
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of 
the purposes of the Loan. 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   

(a) 

 
(b) 
 

 

-13- 

“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put, other than to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout  these  General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   

 
(c) 
 
(d) 

 

 

 

-14- 

