CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7868-VN 

Loan Agreement 

(First Power Sector Reform Development Policy Operation) 
 

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

Dated May 25, 2010 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT 

dated  May 

25, 

2010, 

entered 

into 

between                   

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of 
providing  financing  in  support  of  the  Program  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: 
(a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are 
described  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Borrower and the 
Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  million  Dollars 
($200,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

2

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section 3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  un-withdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

 

 

 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

3

(c) 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consist  of  the  following,  namely  that  a 
situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 

 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 

The  Financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make  withdrawals  under  it  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of  this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  the  Governor,  or  a  Deputy  Governor,  of  the 

State Bank of Vietnam. 

6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Hà N i
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

 

 

Cable:   

Telex:   

Facsimile: 

 

 

 

 

VIETBANK  

412248  

(84-4) 3825-0612 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

4

Hanoi 

 

 

NHTWVT 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

(1-202) 477-6391 

AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first 

above written. 
 

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 

By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Victoria Kwakwa 
 

5

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Actions Under the Program

Section I. 

Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under 
the Program include the following: 
 
Power Market Development

The  Borrower  has,  through  the  MOIT,  issued  a  Decision  (No.  6713-QD-BCT 
dated December 31, 2009) establishing design principles for the implementation 
of the VCGM. 

The Borrower has, through the MOIT, issued a Circular (No. 27/2009/TT-BCT 
dated  September  25,  2009)  establishing  metering  systems  standards  and 
procedures for generation plants participating in the VCGM. 

Power Sector Restructuring

The Borrower has, through the OOG, issued a Notice (No. 232/TB-VPCP dated 
July 31, 2009) establishing a sector structure to allow for the introduction of the 
VCGM. 

Electricity Tariff Reform

through 

the  Prime  Minister, 

The  Borrower  has, 
(No. 21/2009/QD-TTg dated February 12, 2009): (a) increasing the average tariff 
in  2009  to  Vietnamese  Dong 948  /  kWh;  and  (b)  implementing  transparent 
annual  tariff-setting  from  2010-12  based  on  cost  recovery  principles,  including 
the unbundling of the average retail tariff into power supply cost components and 
the delegation of tariff changes of less than five percent (5%) to the MOIT. 

issued  a  Decision                        

through 

The  Borrower  has, 
(No.  21/2009/QD-TTg  dated  February  12,  2009)  restructuring  the  residential 
block tariff system to establish the principle of the subsidy to the consumer as a 
percentage of production cost and extend the subsidy mechanism and residential 
tariff structure to local distribution utilities. 

the  Prime  Minister, 

issued  a  Decision                     

Demand-Side Energy Efficiency Improvement

The Borrower has, through the MOST, issued Decisions (No. 2740/QD-BKHCN 
dated  December  9,  2008  and  No.  632/QD-BKHCN  dated  April  20,  2009) 

1. 

 
2. 

 

 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 

6. 

7

establishing energy efficiency standards for consumer goods accounting for large 
quantities of electricity consumption. 

The Borrower has, through the MOIT, issued a Circular (No. 05/2009/TT-BCT 
dated February 26, 2009) introducing time-of-use tariffs for industrial zones and 
commercial, industrial, and irrigation consumer categories. 

 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the 
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of  the  Loan  proceeds.    The  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

 
7. 

A. 

 
B. 

 

Allocations 

(1) Single Withdrawal 
Tranche 

(2) Front-end Fee 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in U.S. Dollars) 

199,500,000 

500,000 

200,000,000 

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. 

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 

Deposit of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 

 
D.   
 

1. 

 
2.  

8

Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Audit.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 

have  such  account  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the 
Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards 
acceptable to the Bank; 

 
2. 

 
3. 

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in  any  case  not  later than 
four  (4)  months  after  the  date  of  the  Bank’s  request  for  such  audit,  a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall reasonably request; and  

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such account and 
its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is August 31, 2011. 

 
E. 

 
F. 

G. 
 

9

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 

 
1. 

 

 

 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the Withdrawn Loan Balance as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

Principal Payment Date 

On each February 15 and August 15 
Beginning February 15, 2021 
Through August 15, 2034 

On February 15, 2035 

3.45% 

3.40% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

10 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

4. 

 

 

11 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Circular” means a regulation issued by a minister or the head of a ministerial-
level  government  agency  and  which  is  enforceable  under  the  Borrower’s  legal 
system. 
 
“Decision”  means  a  regulation  issued  by:  (a)  the  Prime  Minister  and  which  is 
enforceable under the Borrower’s legal system; or (b) a minister or the head of a 
ministerial-level government agency on a specific issue under the legal mandate 
of  the  relevant  ministry  or  agency  and  which  is  legally  binding  upon  such 
ministry or agency. 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

2. 

 
3. 
 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

Sub-group 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 
Group
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

718.7 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, un-
worked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 

728 

897  

971  

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

728.43  

897.3 

12 

(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

 
“Financing  Agreement”  means  the  financing  agreement  between  the  Borrower 
and the Association providing for a financing in support of the Program, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” includes 
all appendices, schedules, and agreements supplemental to such agreement. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 

“MOIT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Trade or any successor 
thereto. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 

13 

“MOST”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Science  and  Technology  or  any 
successor thereto. 

“Notice”  means  an  operational  document  issued  by  the  OOG  (as  hereinafter 
defined)  providing  instructions  to  the  Recipient’s  ministries  and  agencies  and 
which is enforceable under the Borrower’s legal system. 

“OOG” means the Borrower’s Office of Government or any successor thereto. 

“Prime  Minister”  means  the  Borrower’s  head  of  government  or  any  successor 
thereto. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives,  and  policies  designed  to 
support the development of a competitive power market, the restructuring of the 
power sector, the reform of electricity tariffs, and the improvement of demand-
side  energy  efficiency,  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  March  1, 
2010 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of 
the Program during its execution. 

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category  entitled  “Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Section 
II.B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“VCGM”  means  the  Vietnam  Competitive  Generation  Market,  the  Borrower’s 
the 
electricity  generation  market  established  and  operating  pursuant 
Borrower’s Decision No. 6713/QD-BCT dated December 31, 2009. 

to 

“Vietnamese Dong” means the official currency of the Borrower. 

 
14. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  

7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 
 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

14 

“Section  2.05.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest 
 

(a) 

If  the  Loan  Agreement  provides  for  the  repayment  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  of  an  advance  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  on  or  after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to 
repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding  balance  of  the  advance  as  at  the  date  of 
such  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  and  to  pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

(c) 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
…
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.    The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

7. 

 

 

 
8. 

15 

alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

The  definition  of  the  term  “Conversion  Date”  is  modified  to  read  as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.” 

 

