CONFORMED COPY 
 

 
 
LOAN NUMBER 8061-YF 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
(Second Programmatic Public Expenditure Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated May 27, 2011  

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8061-YF 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 27, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the 
actions  which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macroeconomic  policy  framework.    The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  therefore  hereby  agree  as 
follows: 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  million  Dollars  ($100,000,000) 
(“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  support  of  the  Program  in 

accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  

 
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the  Reference  Rate for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread.    Notwithstanding  the 
foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and 
such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 

interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding  from a Variable Rate to  a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa,  or  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate 
based on a Fixed Spread. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions 
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of  this  Article  II  as  the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 

end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)  and (b) of this Section, 
the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation  that  would  have 
the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the  Program  or  any  action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  a  situation 
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will 
be carried out. 

 
4.02.  The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of thirty 
(30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

 

 

 

- 2 - 

 

 

 

 

 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the 
Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program 
and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 

 
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the date of 

this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance 
20 Kneza Milosa St. 
11000 Belgrade 
Republic of Serbia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(381-11) 3618-961 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

- 3 - 

 

 

AGREED at Belgrade, Republic of Serbia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
 

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

By /s/ Mirko Cvetkovic 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Loup J. Brefort 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

- 4 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Actions under the Program 

Section I. 
 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 

The Borrower has enacted a new Pension Law, satisfactory to the Bank, published in the 
Official  Gazette  of  the  Borrower  No.  101/10  of  December  29.  2010,  to  introduce 
parametric changes to strengthen the public pension system. 

The Borrower has implemented a nominal wage freeze for public employees at all levels 
of Government until end-2010, and has adopted a post-freeze wage indexation policy: (i) 
2009 Budget Law – Articles 7 and 26, published in the Official Gazette of the Borrower 
No. 120/08 of December 29, 2008; (ii) 2009 Budget Law revision – Article 7, published 
in the  Official  Gazette  of the  Borrower  No.  31/09  of April  30,  2009; (iii)  2010 Budget 
Law – Articles 8 and 42, published in the Official Gazette of the Borrower No. 107/09 of 
December 23, 2009; (iv) 2011 Budget Law – Article 8, published in the Official Gazette 
of the Borrower No. 101/10 of December 29. 2010; and (v) Budget System Law Revision 
and  Amendments,  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  of  the  Borrower  No.  101/10  of 
December 29. 2010). 

all General Government Sector revenue and expenditures;  

The Borrower has adopted a Budget Memorandum, published in the Official Gazette of 
the Borrower No. 102/10 of December 30, 2010, which includes: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 

medium term estimates for three years by direct budget beneficiary. 

identification of fiscal risks, including contingent liabilities; and 

established a comprehensive debt database;  

The Borrower has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the Public Debt Administration 
is fully staffed and has completed the following activities: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 

prepared a comprehensive medium-term debt management strategy;  

prepared  and  delivered  to  the  Bank  a  complete  description,  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  of all outstanding Government guarantees, including a qualitative analysis 
of the risk of payments under these guarantees; and  

 
(d) 

prepared procedures manuals for the main debt management activities. 

 

 

- 5 - 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

 

 

The  Borrower  has  submitted  to  the  Borrower’s  Parliament  a  draft  Social  Welfare  Law, 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  improve  access  of  vulnerable  groups  to  last-resort  cash 
assistance by: (i) applying equivalence scales in accordance with the prevalent European 
Union (EU) and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development practices; and 
(ii) spending on last-resort cash assistance adjusted accordingly. 

 
Section II. 
 
A. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions  of  this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by 
notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make 
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end 
is set out in the table below: 

Allocations 

Single Withdrawal Tranche 
Front-end Fee 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan  
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
99,750,000 
250,000 
100,000,000 

 
 
 

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.   

No withdrawal shall be made of the Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) 
with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.   

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 

 
2. 

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower’s  budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the 

 

 

- 6 - 

 

5. 

 
B. 

 

 
 
C. 
 

D. 
 

E. 

 

Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  an  amount  equal  to  the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 

 

 
F. 
 

 

 

 

- 7 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each  April 15 and October 15 
 
 
 
 
2.  

Beginning October 15, 2026  
through April 15, 2031 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

10.0% 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies.  

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 

 
 

 

- 8 - 

 

 

 

 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

 

4. 

 
5. 

 

 

 

 

- 9 - 

 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 
112 
121 

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

 

APPENDIX 

 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728.43  

897.3 

 

- 10 - 

122 

525 

667 

718  

728 

897  

971  

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of  the  Borrower  or  other 
recipient  of  the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient) 
having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  address 
such practices when they occur. 

 
for  Reconstruction  and 
“General  Conditions”  means 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

the  “International  Bank 

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to help reduce 
the  size  of  the  Borrower’s  large  public  sector  by  supporting  reforms  that  will  help 
improve  the efficiency  of public spending,  structured  around three  key  policy  areas: (i) 
improving allocation of public expenditure to enhance the efficiency of spending in the 
largest  spending  sectors;  (ii)  strengthening  of  public  expenditure  and  debt  management  
to make spending more strategic; and (iii) strengthening social assistance to cushion the 
impact of the economic crisis and  expand the coverage of the social assistance programs 
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated  March 21, 2011 from the Borrower to the 
Bank  declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category 
entitled  “Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

1. 

The  last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

 

 

- 11 - 

 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 

Sections  5.01  (Project  Execution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial  Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above  and 
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above)  is 
modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
… 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above)  is 
modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

… 
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of  such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their 
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of 
the purposes of the Loan. 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:  

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   

“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant  to  the  Loan 
Agreement.” 

The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 

(a) 
 

 
(b) 
 

 

 

- 12 - 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 

 

 

(c) 

 
 

The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout  these  General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   

 

 

 

 

 

- 13 - 

