OCNENUS

CTF LOAN  NUMBER  TW0407-ID

Clean Technology  Fund
Loan Agreement

(Geothermal  Clean Energy Investment Project -
Total Project Development  in Ulubelu Units 3 and 4 and Lahendong  Units 5 and  6)

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

acting as an implementing  entity of the Clean  Technology Fund

Dated  De(..v 

eex 

,2011

CTF LOAN NUMBER  Ti40407-ID

0

CLEAN  TECHNOLOGY  FUND  LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated,  DI  0 

2011,  entered  into between:
REPUBLIC  OF  INDONESIA 
("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("World  Bank"),  acting  not  in  its
individual  capacity  but  solely  in  its  capacity  as  an  implementing  entity  of the  Clean
Technology  Fund.

, 

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions;  Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)
constitute  an  integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless 

the  context  requires  otherwise, 

terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the meanings  ascribed  to them in the  Standard  Conditions  or in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

Article II
Loan

2.01. 

The World  Bank agrees  to lend to the Borrower,  on  the terms  and conditions set
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  twenty  five
million  Dollars  ($125,000,000)  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project
described  in Schedule  I to the  IBRD Loan Agreement ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The Loan is  funded  out of the  resources made  available  to the  World Bank as  an
implementing  entity  of  the  Clean  Technology  Fund. 
In  accordance  with
Section 3.02  of the  Standard  Conditions,  the  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  Loan
proceeds subject  to the  availability of such funds.

2.04.  The  Management  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower,  pursuant  to  Section  4.01(a)  of
the Standard  Conditions, shall  be equal  to one-quarter  of one percent  (1/4  of 1%)
of  the  Loan.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Management  Fee  not  later  than
sixty (60) days after the Effective  Date.

2.05.  The  Service  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  on  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance

shall be equal to  one-fourths of one percent  (1/4  of 1%)  per annum.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are  April  15  and October  15  in  each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

repayment  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.08.  The Payment Currency  is the Dollar.

-2-

Article III
The Project

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entities  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  II  of  the
Standard Conditions  and the  Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as the Borrower  and  the World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the Borrower
shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

Article  IV
Additional Remedies

4.01. 

The Additional Events of Suspension consist  of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Borrower's  Decision  No.  C-24026.HT.0 1.01  dated October  9, 2003
or  Decree  No.  W7-00089.HT.01.01.Th.2007  dated  January  3,  2007
pursuant 
to  which  Pertamina  and  PGE,  respectively,  have  been
established  and  are  operating  and  any  other  laws  and  regulations
governing  the  organization,  reorganization,  restructuring,  and  operations
of  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  have  been  assigned,  amended,
abrogated,  or  waived,  or  permitted  to  be assigned,  amended,  abrogated,
or waived  so as  to  affect materially  and adversely  the ability  of either of
the Project Implementing  Entities  to perform  any of its obligations  under
the Project Agreement.

The  Borrower  has  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the
IBRD Loan  Agreement.

Any  Governmental  Approval  lapses,  or has  been  suspended,  revoked,  or
canceled  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of PGE  to
construct,  operate, or maintain the Facilities,  or a substantial  part thereof.

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

-3-

Any of the provisions  of the Joint  H2S  Abatement  Agreement  shall  have
been  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  or  permitted  to  be
assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and
adversely  the  implementation  of the  Project  or the  achievement  of the
objective thereof.

As  a  result  of  events  which  have  occurred  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement,  an  extraordinary situation  shall have  arisen which shall make
it improbable  that the parties to the Joint H2S  Abatement Agreement  will
be  able to perform their obligations  under said  Agreement.

4.02.  The Additional Events of Acceleration  consist of the following:

The  event  specified  in  Section  4.01  (c)  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is
continuing  for  a period  of thirty  (30)  days  after  notice  of the  event  has
been  given  by the World Bank to the Borrower.

(b) 

The event  specified in Section 4.01 (d)  of this Agreement  occurs.

Article V
Effectiveness;  Termination

5.01.  The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

The  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of the
Borrower  and Pertamina.

The  IBRD  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness  or to the right of the Borrower  to
the  effectiveness  of  this
it  (other  than 
make  withdrawals  under 
Agreement)  have  been fulfilled.

the  Governance  and
The  Project  Implementation  Plan, 
Accountability  Framework,  has  been  adopted  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  I.C.2  (a) of the  Schedule to the  Project Agreement.

including 

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  has been duly  authorized or ratified  by the  Borrower
is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  Pertamina  in
and  Pertamina  and 
accordance  with its terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

-4-

Article  VI
Borrower's Representative;  Addresses

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  referred  to  in  Section  10.02  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is  its minister  responsible  for finance.

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of the Standard  Conditions

is:

Directorate  General of Debt Management
Ministry  of Finance
Jalan Lapangan  Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta  10710
Indonesia

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

FINMINISTRY  45799 
Jakarta 

DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA

62-21-381-2859

6.03.  The  World  Bank's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of  the  Standard

Conditions  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423  (MCI) or 
64145 (MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-5-

AGREED  at Jakarta, Indonesia,  as of the day and  year first above written.

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

Rahmat  Waluyanto
Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
acting  as an implementing  entity of the
Clean Technology Fund

By

By

Authorized  Representative

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and Other Arranfements

Subsidiary Loan Agreement

A. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the  Borrower shall  make the proceeds
of the  Loan  available  to  Pertamina  under  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  under
terms  and conditions  agreed  by  the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank,  which  shall
include the obligation  of Pertamina to:

(a) 

(i)  pay  the  Borrower  a  management  fee  in  an  amount  equal  to  the
Management  Fee  specified  in  Section  2.04  of this Agreement;  (ii)  repay
the  Borrower  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  over  a  period  consistent  with
Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement;  and  (iii)  pay  the  Borrower  a  service
charge 
in
Section 2.05  of  this  Agreement,  plus  a  premium  of  one  half  of one
percent  (0.5%),  except  as  may  be  otherwise  agreed  in  writing  between
the Borrower  and the Bank;  and

to  the  Service  Charge  specified 

in  an  amount  equal 

(b) 

ensure  that the  Project  is  carried out  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Agreement  and the Project Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in
such  manner as  to  protect  the interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  World Bank  and
to accomplish  the  purposes  of the Loan.  Except  as  the  Borrower and  the  World
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or
waive,  or  permit 
the
aforementioned, or  any provision  thereof.

to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived, 

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and 
the  Governance  and
Accountability  Framework.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  Pertamina  to  cause  PGE  to:  (a)  maintain  all
Governmental  Approvals  throughout  Project  implementation;  and  (b)  provide
written  notice to the World Bank  of its receipt  from any Governmental  Authority
of  any  notice  of  potential  suspension,  revocation,  or  cancellation  of  any

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

-7-

Government  Approvals,  as  well as  of any suspension,  revocation,  or cancellation
of any  such  Approvals,  in either  case within thirty  (30)  days of the date  of receipt
of such  notice,  or  of the  date  of such  suspension,  revocation,  or cancellation,  as
the  case  may  be,  and  any remedial  measures  it  proposes  to  take  or  causes  to be
taken to restore such Approvals.

The  Borrower shall  cause  Pertamina to  cause PGE to take all measures  necessary
on  its  part  to  collect,  compile,  and  submit  to  the  World  Bank,  as  part  of the
Project  Reports,  copies  of  all  periodic  reports  submitted  to  the  Ministry  of
Environment  in  relation  to  compliance  with  the  AMDAL 
Instruments  and  the
UKL  /  UPL Instruments.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  Pertamina  to  cause  PGE to  finance  exclusively  out  of
its own resources  or other resources,  and not out  of the proceeds of the Loan, and
provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  needed  for the  following:  (a)  all  land
acquisition  required  for  the  purposes  of the  Project;  and  (b)  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  payments  and  other assistance  to  Displaced  Persons  in  accordance
with the provisions  of the Land  Acquisition  and Resettlement  Policy Framework
and  any Land  Acquisition  and Resettlement Action  Plans.

Joint H2S  Abatement  Agreement

The  Borrower  shall  cause  Pertamina  to  cause  PGE  and  shall  cause  PLN  to
comply  with  the  provisions  of the  Joint  H2S  Abatement  Agreement,  including
with  respect  to  the  necessary  investments  in  abatement  technology,  particularly
on  the  basis  of the  outcome  of the monitoring  of H2S  emissions  carried  out  by
PGE and PLN pursuant  to said Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  Pertamina  to  cause  PGE  to  collect,  compile,  and
submit to  the  World  Bank, as  part of the Project  Reports,  the information  on the
status of compliance  with the Joint H2S Abatement Agreement,  giving details  of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

measures taken  in  furtherance  of said Agreement;

conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to  interfere  with 
smooth  implementation  of said Agreement;  and

the

remedial  measures  taken  or  required  to  be  taken  to  address  such
conditions.

-8-

Section  H. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation

Semi-Annual  Reviews;  Completion  Report

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  review  jointly  with  the  World  Bank  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entities,  on a  semi-annual  basis  commencing  six (6)  months  after
the Effective  Date, or such later date as  the  World Bank  shall request,  progress  in
Project  implementation,  and  thereafter  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the
efficient completion  of the  Project and  the achievement  of the objectives  thereof,
based  on  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of such  review  and  the  World
Bank's views on the matter.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  the  Completion  Report  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  2.06  of the  Standard  Conditions.  The Completion  Report
shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Closing Date.

Financial  Management;  Financial  Reports; Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a financial  management
system  is  maintained  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of the
Standard Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Part  A of this Section, the Borrower  shall
prepare  and furnish  or cause  to be  prepared  and furnished to the World Bank,  not
later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim
unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to the World  Bank.

The  Borrower shall  have or cause  to have  the Financial  Statements for the Project
audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  (b)  of the  Standard
Conditions.  Each  such  audit of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the  period  of
one  (1)  fiscal  year  of PGE.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such
period shall  be furnished  to the World  Bank not later than six (6)  months after the
end  of such  period.

Section III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

Goods,  Works,  and  Non-Consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works,  and  non-
consulting services required  for the Project and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of
this Section.

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

-9-

Consultants' Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the Project and  to
be financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  World  Bank  of
particular  contracts,  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
in  the
Procurement  Guidelines, or  Consultant Guidelines,  as the case may be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works,  and  Non-Consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding. 
in
paragraph  2  below, goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured
under contracts awarded  on the basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works,  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The following  methods, other than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services  for
those contracts  specified  in the Procurement Plan:

Procurement  Method

(a) Shopping

(b)  Direct Contracting

Particular  Methods of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-Based  Selection. 
in
paragraph  2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based  Selection.

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those  assignments  which are specified  in
the Procurement  Plan:

-10-

Procurement  Method

(a)  Quality-Based  Selection

(b)  Least-Cost  Selection

(c)  Selection  Based on the Consultants'  Qualifications

(d)  Single-Source  Selection

(e)  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review by the World  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts which  shall be  subject  to the
World  Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review
by the World Bank.

Section IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of:  (a) Article  III of the  Standard Conditions;  (b)  this  Section;  and  (c)
such  additional  instructions  as  the  World  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the
Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"
dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time to  time  by  the  World  Bank  and  as  made
applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures as  set forth  in  the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocations  of the
amounts  of the Loan to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category:

A. 

1. 

2. 

-ll-

Category 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures to be
Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

$125,000,000 

100

Goods,  works, non- 
consulting services,
consultants'  services,
Training,  and
Operating  Costs  under
the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 

$125,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

from the Loan  Account until  the Bank has  received  payment  in full of the
Management  Fee;  or

(b) 

for payments made prior to the  date  of this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date  is March  31,  2015.

-12-

SCHEDULE  2

Repayment Schedule

Date Payment Due 

On  each April  15  and  October  15:

commencing October  15,  2021  to and  including 
April  15,  2031

commencing  October  15,  2031  to and including 
April  15,  2051

Principal Amount  of the Loan
repayable
(expressed  as a  percentage)

1.00

2.00

-13-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

consultative  AMDAL 

"AMDAL  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  PT  Pertamina  Geothermal  Energy
(PGE) (as hereinafter  defined)'s  instruments,  agreed with the Borrower  as part of
the 
(Analisis  Mengenai  Dampak  Lingkungan
(environmental  impact assessment))  process  required  under the  Borrower's  laws,
setting  out  the  environmental  impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented  under  the
Project  with  respect  to  Ulubelu  (as  hereinafter  defined)  and  mitigation,
monitoring,  and 
the
environmental 
impact  assessment  (Analisis  Dampak  Lingkungan  Hidup  or
ANDAL)  dated  2010  and  approved  by  the  Borrower  on  October  20,  2010,  the
environmental  management  plan  (Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan Hidup  or
RKL)  dated  July  2010,  and  the  environmental  monitoring  plan  (Rencana
Pemantauan Lingkungan Hidup or RPL) dated  July  2010,  as  the  same  may  be
modified  from time to  time with the prior written  agreement  of the Borrower,  and
such  term  includes any annexes  or schedules  to such instruments.

in  that  regard,  and  comprising 

reporting  measures 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud and  Corruption  in  Projects Financed  by  IBRD Loans  and IDA
Credits and  Grants", dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January 2011.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  published  by  the  World  Bank  in
May  2004 and revised  in October 2006  and May  2010.

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who, on  account  of Project  implementation,
has  experienced  or  would experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused
by:  (i)  the  involuntary  taking  of  land,  resulting  in:  (A)  relocation  or  loss  of
shelter;  (B)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (C)  loss  of income  sources  or
means of livelihood,  whether  or  not such  person  must move  to  another  location;
or  (ii)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of such  person;
and  "Displaced  Persons"  means, collectively,  all  such  persons.

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessments"  means,  collectively,  PGE's
assessments,  with  respect to Lahendong  (Tompaso)  (as  hereinafter  defined)  and
Ulubelu  (as  hereinafter  defined),  respectively,  dated  February  and  February  /
March 2011,  respectively,  and  agreed  with the World  Bank, of the environmental
and  social  impacts  of  activities  to  be  implemented  under  the  Project  and
including  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plans (as  hereinafter  defined),
as the  same may  be  modified  from  time  to time with  the prior written  agreement
of the  World  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or  schedules  to  such
assessments.

-14-

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"Environmental  and Social Management  Plans"  means,  collectively,  PGE's plans
with  respect  to  Lahendong  (Tompaso)  and  Ulubelu,  respectively,  part  of and  of
even  date  with  the  respective  Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment,
setting  out  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,
including  capacity  building 
to  eliminate  any  adverse
environmental  and  social  impacts  of  activities  to  be  implemented  under  the
Project,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  enhance  positive
impacts,  and  including  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the preparation  of Health,
Safety,  and  Environmental  Management  Plans  (as  hereinafter  defined),  as  the
same  may  be  modified  from  time  to time with  the prior written  agreement  of the
World Bank, and such term  includes  any annexes or  schedules  to such plans.

training, 

through 

"Facilities"  means,  collectively, the  power  plants to  be  constructed, operated,  and
maintained  by  PGE, and commonly  known  as: (a) Lahendong  (Tompaso)  units  5
and  6;  and  (b)  Ulubelu  units 3  and  4, as  well  as  the associated  transmission  lines
and  facilities  identified  in  the  Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessments,
including  cooling  towers,  steam  fields,  wells,  well  pads,  steam-field  above-
ground  systems,  ponds,  access  roads,  offices,  workers'  compounds,  and
supporting  infrastructure.

"Governance  and Accountability  Framework"  means  PGE's framework,  referred
to  in  Section  I.C.2  (a)  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  setting  out
measures  to  reinforce  Project  governance,  enhance  the  transparency  of Project
activities,  increase  public  accountability,  and reduce  opportunities  for collusion,
corruption,  or  fraud  under  the  Project  and  including  an  action  plan  for  such
purpose,  as  the  same may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the prior  written
agreement  of the World  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any annexes  or schedules
to such framework.

"Governmental  Approval"  means  any  environmental  or social  approval, consent,
concession,  decree,  permit,  waiver,  privilege,  exemption,  and  approval  from,  or
filing  with,  or  notice 
the
construction,  operation,  or maintenance  of the  Facilities.

to,  any  Governmental  Authority  required  for 

"Governmental  Authority"  means the Government  of Indonesia and any ministry,
department,  political  subdivision,  instrumentality,  agency,  authority,  corporation,
or  commission  under  the  direct  or  indirect  control  of  the  Government  of
Indonesia,  any  court  or  tribunal  in  Indonesia,  any  such  other  entity,  or  any
successor thereto.

"H2S" means hydrogen  sulfide.

"Health,  Safety,  and  Environmental  Management  Plan"  means  the  plan,  of a
contractor  under  a  Subproject  (as  hereinafter  defined),  to  be  prepared  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Environmental  and  Social  Management

-15-

Plans and agreed  with PGE, setting out mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and
institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training,  to  eliminate
any  adverse  health,  safety,  and  environmental 
impacts  of  activities  to  be
implemented  under  the  Subproject,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable
levels,  or  enhance  positive  impacts,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to
time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  PGE,  and  such  term  includes  any
annexes  or schedules to such  plan.

"IBRD  Loan"  means  the loan  in the  amount  of one hundred  seventy  five million
Dollars  ($175,000,000)  provided  by  the  World  Bank,  acting  in  its  individual
capacity, to assist  in  financing the Project.

"IBRD  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of even  date  herewith  between
the Borrower  and the World  Bank, acting  in its  individual  capacity, providing  for
the  IBRD  Loan, as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time, and  such term
includes  any annexes  or schedules  to such agreement.

(Persero)
"Inter-Company  Funding  Mechanism"  means  PT  Pertamina 
(Pertamina)'s  mechanism  providing  for  the  provision  of  funding 
its
to 
subsidiaries,  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  its  Finance  Directorate  Policy
No. 55 1/HOOOOO/2009-S4  dated December 22,  2009,  as  may  be  amended  from
time  to  time,  and  referred  to  in  Section  1.B. 1  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement  pursuant  to  which  Pertamina  shall  make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
available  to PGE.

"Involuntary  Resettlement"  means  the  following  caused  on  account  of Project
implementation:  (a) the  involuntary taking  of land,  resulting  in  (i) relocation  or
loss of shelter;  (ii)  loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii)  loss  of income  sources
or  means of livelihood,  whether  or not  the affected  person  must move  to another
location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally  designated  parks
and  protected  areas  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood  of the  affected
person.

dated
"Joint  H2S  Abatement  Agreement"  means 
December 31,  2010  among  the  Borrower,  PGE,  and  PT  PLN  (Persero) (as
hereinafter defined),  setting forth  arrangements  for the abatement  and  monitoring
of H2S  emissions  in  Ulubelu,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time to time  in
accordance  with  its terms.

agreement 

the 

"Lahendong  (Tompaso)"  means the  Tompaso geothermal  field in  the province  of
North  Sulawesi  in the Borrower's  territory.

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan"  means  PGE's  plan,  to  be
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Land  Acquisition  and
prepared 
the  event  of
Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (as  hereinafter  defined) 

in 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

-16-

Involuntary  Resettlement,  setting  out  the  arrangements  pertaining 
to  land
acquisition  and  the  compensation,  resettlement,  and  rehabilitation  of Displaced
Persons,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the World  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any annexes  or  schedules
to such  plan.

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  PGE's
framework,  disclosed  on  October  7,  2010,  agreed  with  the  Bank  and setting  out
the  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including
capacity  building  through  training,  to  carry  out  acquisition  of land  and  related
assets  under  the  Project  and  compensation,  resettlement,  and  rehabilitation  of
Displaced  Persons and  preparation  of Land Acquisition  and Resettlement  Action
Plans  in  the  event  of  Involuntary  Resettlement,  as  the  same  may  be  modified
from  time  to  time with  the prior  written agreement  of the World  Bank, and  such
term  includes any annexes or  schedules to such  framework.

"Ministry  of Environment"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for  the
management  of the environment,  or  any successor thereto.

"MW"  means  megawatt,  or  one  million  (1,000,000)  watts,  a  standard  unit  of
measure  of electric power.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the reasonable  costs  of incremental  expenditures  under
the  Project,  incurred  by  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  (as
hereinafter  defined)  for  purposes  of Project  management,  implementation,  and
monitoring  and  evaluation,  on  account  of utilities  and  supplies,  bank  charges,
communications,  vehicle  operation,  maintenance,  and  insurance,  office  space
rental,  building  and  equipment  maintenance,  public  awareness-related  publicity
and  media expenses,  domestic  travel  and subsistence,  and salaries  of contractual
and  temporary  staff,  but  excluding  salaries,  bonuses,  fees,  or  honoraria  of
members  of the Borrower's  civil service.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD
Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  World  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised
in October 2006  and May 2010.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  June  21,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.24  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the same  shall be
updated  from time to time  in accordance  with the provisions of said paragraphs.

"Project  Implementation  Plan"  means PGE's plan, referred  to in  Section  I.D. 1 (a)
(i)  of the  Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement,  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  setting
out  implementation,  organizational,  administrative,  monitoring  and  evaluation,
financial  management,  disbursement,  and  procurement arrangements  and  a time-

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

-17-

bound  roadmap  for  purposes  of  Project  implementation,  and  including  the
Governance  and  Accountability  Framework,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from
time to  time with  the  prior written  agreement  of the World  Bank,  and  such  term
includes  any annexes or schedules to such plan.

"Project  Implementation  Unit"  means  PGE's  entity,  established  and  operating
pursuant to  PT Pertamina Geothermal  Energy  (as hereinafter defined)'s  President
Director's Decree  No. 055/PGEOOO/2010-SO  dated  January  28,  2010,  and  whose
responsibilities  are  set  out  in  Section  I.A.3  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement,  or any successor thereto.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means,  individually,  each  of the  following:  (a)
Pertamina;  and 
Implementing  Entities"  means,
collectively,  both of said  entities.

(b)  PGE;  and  "Project 

"PT  Pertamina  (Persero)"  or  "Pertamina"  means  the  state-owned  oil  and  gas
enterprise  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Government
Regulation  No.  31/2003  dated  June  18,  2003,  followed  by Notarial  Deed  No.  20
dated  September  17,  2003  of Lenny Janis  Ishak,  S.H.,  as approved by Ministry  of
Law  and Human  Rights Decision  Letter  No. C-24025  HT.O1.01Th.2003,  or  any
successor thereto.

"PT  Pertamina  Geothermal  Energy"  or "PGE" means Pertamina's  wholly-owned
subsidiary,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  Notarial  Deed  No.  10  dated
December  12,  2006  of  Marianne  Vincentia  Hamdani,  S.H.,  as  approved  by
Ministry  of  Law 
and  Human  Rights  Decision  Letter  No.  W7-
00089.HT.0 1.01 .Th.2007 dated January 3, 2007, or any successor thereto.

"PT  PLN  (Persero)"  or  "PLN"  means  Perusahaan Listrik  Negara  (State
Electricity  Company),  the  Borrower's  wholly-owned  enterprise,  established  and
operating  pursuant  to  the Borrower's  Law  No.  19  dated  1960,  Law No.  9  dated
1969,  Government  Regulation  No. 3 dated  1983,  Government  Regulation  No.  28
dated  1983,  Government  Regulation  No.  10  dated  1989,  and  Government
Regulation  No. 23  dated  1994, or any successor thereto.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the  Environmental  and  Social
Impact Assessments,  the Environmental  and  Social Management  Plans, the Land
Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  and any  Land  Acquisition  and
Resettlement  Action  Plans,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or  schedules  to
such  instruments.

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Loans  Made  by  the
World Bank  Out of the Climate Investment  Funds, dated  July 31,  2010.

-18-

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

"Subproject"  means  one  (1)  or  more  contract  packages  under  the  Project,
grouped  together for procurement  purposes.

"Subsidiary  Loan Agreement"  means the agreement  referred  to in  5.01  (a)  of, and
Section  I.A. 1 of Schedule  1 to, this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Loan  available  to Pertamina.

"Training"  means  the  cost  of training  financed  under the  Project,  attributable  to
seminars,  workshops,  and  study  tours,  along  with  the  cost  of  domestic  and
international  travel  and  subsistence  for training  participants,  services  of trainers,
rental  of training  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of training  materials,
and other  activities directly  related to course  preparation  and implementation.

"UKL  /  UPL  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  PGE's  instruments,  agreed  with
the  Borrower  and  required  under  the  Borrower's 
the
environmental  impacts  of  activities  to  be  implemented  under  the  Project  with
respect  to  Lahendong  (Tompaso)  and  mitigation,  monitoring,  and  reporting
measures  in  that  regard,  and  comprising  the  environmental  management  and
monitoring  efforts  (Upaya Pengelolaan Lingkungan Hidup or UKL  and  Upaya
Pemantauan Lingkungan  Hidup  or  UPL)  dated  2010  and  approved  by  the
Borrower on April  23,  2010, as the same  may be  modified from  time to time with
the prior written  agreement  of the Borrower,  and  such term  includes any annexes
or schedules  to such  instruments.

laws,  setting  out 

38. 

"Ulubelu"  means  the geothermal  field  by that name  in  the province  of Lampung
in the Borrower's territory.

