CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 8022-IN 

 
 
 
 
Loan Agreement 

 
 
 
(Second Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
INDIA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated May 30, 2011 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  May  30,  2011,  between 

 
(“Borrower”)  
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

INDIA 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  three  hundred  and  fifty  million 
Dollars  ($350,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 

- 2 - 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.   To  this 
end,  the  Borrower shall  cause Karnataka  to  carry  out  the  Project in  accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  the  Project 
Agreement. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that 
KRDCL’s  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  has  been  amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of KRDCL to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 

- 3 - 

 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  any  of  the  following:  Secretary,  Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the 
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient. 

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Secretary 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India 
North Block  
New Delhi 110001, India 

 

Facsimile: 

 
 
91-11-2309 4075 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

AGREED at Bangalore, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

- 4 - 

 
INDIA 
 
 
 

By /s/  Venu Rajamony  
 

Authorized Representative 

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/  Hubert Nove-Josserand   
 

Authorized Representative 

- 5 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

 

 

The objective of the Project is to accelerate the development of Karnataka’s Core 
Road Network through leveraging public sector outlays with private sector financing, and 
the  improvement  of  the  institutional  effectiveness  of  road  sector  agencies  to  deliver 
effective and safe roads to users.   

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 

Part A:  Road Improvement 
 
(1) 

Supporting  the  improvement  of  Karnataka’s  Core  Road  Network  through 
traditional contracts, including engineering and advisory consulting services, and 
associated  land  acquisition,  resettlement,  rehabilitation,  and  environmental 
management activities. 

(2) 

Supporting  the  improvement  of  Karnataka’s  Core  Road  Network  through  PPP 
concessions,  including  engineering  and  advisory  consulting  services,  and 
associated  land  acquisition,  resettlement,  rehabilitation,  and  environmental 
management activities. 

Part B: Highway Financing Modernization 
 
(1) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  KRDCL  to  expand  private  sector  participation  in 
highway development and to undertake fiscally prudent market borrowing. 

(2) 

(3) 

Supporting  KRDCL  in  developing  highways  with  co-financing  from  other 
financial institutions or through PPP concessions with private sector developers, 
including  engineering  and  advisory  consulting  services,  and  associated  land 
acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation activities. 

Strengthening  Project  management  through  the  provision  of  operating  costs  to 
KRDCL. 

Part C:  Road Safety Improvement 
 
(1)         Implementing  a  result-based  safe  corridor  demonstration  program  on  selected 

corridors. 

(2) 

Strengthening the capacity of TD and its traffic and road safety cell to fulfill its 
lead agency functions.  

Strengthening the capacity of PWD staff in integrating road safety and work zone 
safety in the planning and asset management processes. 

Establishing  a  centre  of  excellence  for  road  safety  training,  education  and 
research. 

Part D:  Road Sector Policy and Institutional Development 

Supporting the implementation of a medium-term Institutional Development and  
Strengthening  Action  Plan  for  the  period  2010-2016  and  strengthening  Project 
management through the provision of operating costs to the PIU. 

 
(3) 

(4) 

 
 

- 6 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 7 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

 

 
2. 

3. 

A. 
 
 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
Availability of Funds 
 
1. 

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of the  Loan  available to Karnataka in  accordance  with  the  Borrower’s  standard 
arrangements.  

The Borrower shall protect the interests of the Bank to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan. 

 
Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and those of the GAAP. 

 Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall cause Karnataka to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed 
with  the  Bank.    Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the period  of  one  (1)  calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  and  cause  Karnataka  to  maintain  a  financial 
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the 
General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause Karnataka to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports 
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

The Borrower shall have the Designated Account referred to in Section 2.04 of 
the  General  Conditions  audited  and  shall  cause  Karnataka  to  have  the  Project 

Procurement 

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

- 8 - 

Financial  Statements  audited,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  
Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Designated Account 
and the Project Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year 
of the Borrower, commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal 
was made under Project.  The audit reports for the Designated Account and the 
audited  Project  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  

Goods  and  Works.      All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
except  that  the  contract  packages  for  goods  and  works,  for  which  advance 
procurement action has been initiated before December 31, 2010,  as specified in 
the  Procurement  Plan,  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  Guidelines: 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in May 
2004 and Revised October 2006, and May 2010, and with the provisions of this 
Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines, except that the contracts for consultants services, for which advance 
procurement action has been initiated before December 31, 2010, as specified in 
the  Procurement  Plan,  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published 
by the Bank in May 2004 and Revised October 2006, and May 2010, and with 
the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

International  Competitive  Bidding. 
  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works.    The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
D. 
 

- 9 - 

Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 

(a)   National Competitive Bidding (subject to the additional provisions agreed 
upon from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank and referred 
to in the Procurement Plan) 

(b)   Shopping 
(c)    Direct Contracting 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 
(a)   Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
(c)   Least Cost Selection 
(d)   Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e)   Single Source Selection 
(f)   Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant 

Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 

- 10 - 

 

 

 
2. 

(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
 
Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

24,000,000 

80% 

(1)  Consultants’ services, 
training, studies, 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts A.1, A.2,  
C, and D of the Project  

(2)  Consultants’ services, 
training, studies, 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts B.1, B.2, 
and B.3 of the Project 

5,300,000 

80% 

(3)  Goods and works under 

         120,825,000 

Parts A.1, C, and D of the 
Project 

(4)  Goods and works under 

         137,000,000 

Part A.2 of the Project 

(5)  Goods and works under 

           62,000,000 

Part B.2 of the Project 

(6)  Front-end Fee 
 
 
 

(7)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar 

 
 

              875,000 

 
 
 
                 0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

350,000,000 

 

80% 

100% 

100% 

Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the General 
Conditions 

- 11 - 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

(a) 

(b) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $20,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after May 1, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); or   

under  Category  (5),  until  KRDCL  has  entered  into  a  co-financing 
arrangement with a financial institution, or a concession agreement with 
a  private  sector  developer,  acceptable  to  Karnataka  and  the  Bank,  for 
 
developing selected corridors under Karnataka’s Core Road Network. 

The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
 

 

 
2. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 12 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

 
Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 

Beginning September 15, 2016  
through September 15, 2028 

 
 

On March 15, 2029 

3.85% 

3.75% 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  

1. 

 
2.  

 

 

 

 

- 13 - 

 
3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  (1)  Loan 
Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount 
denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 

 

 

4. 

 
5. 

  

 

 

 
1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

- 14 - 

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means 
the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 
 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credit  and  Grants  by  World  Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
“Core Road Network” means the road network designated by Karnataka as core 
road network.  
 
“Displaced  Persons”  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project,  have  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or  loss  of  shelter;  (ii)  loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income 
sources  or  means  of  livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  persons  must  move  to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
“Environment  Management  Plans”  or its  acronym  “EMPs”  means,  collectively, 
the  environmental  management  plans  prepared  for  the  Project,  all  dated 
November  30,  2010  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  plans  set  out  the 
environmental  protection  measures  in  respect  of  the  Project,  as  well  as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plans, as said plans may be revised from time to time with the written agreement 
of the Bank; and such term includes all schedules and annexes supplemental to 
the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
“Fiscal Year” mean the financial year of the Borrower, commencing on April 1 
and ending on March 31 of each year. 
 
“Financial  Management  Manual”  means  the  manual  dated  February  14,  2011, 
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  sets  out  the  financial  management  arrangements 
under  the  Project,  and  as  such  manual  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  in 
agreement with the Bank. 
 

 
9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

- 15 - 

in  

to 

the  committee  referred 

“GAAP” the governance and accountability action plan, dated February 14, 2011 
which  sets  out  the  key  actions  to  be  undertaken  by  PWD  and  KRDCL  to 
strengthen  governance,  transparency,  and  accountability  under  the  Project,  as 
such  plan  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  by  agreement  between  the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
 
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
“Grievance  Redressal  Committee”  means 
paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental costs directly related to the 
Project including, inter alia, incremental office expenses for the Project; salaries 
of contractual staff; and travel expenses and per diem. 
 
“Institutional  Development  and  Strengthening  Action  Plan”  means  the  plan, 
dated  February  14,  2011,  developed  for  improving  the  institutional  capacity  of 
PWD, KRDCL, and other related road agencies.  
 
“Karnataka”  means  the  State  of  Karnataka,  a  state  of  India,  or  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
“KRDCL”  means  Karnataka  Road  Development  Corporation  Limited, 
constituted and existing under the Borrower’s Companies Act 1956, as amended, 
or any successor thereto. 
 
“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods, 
Works,  and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and 
Grants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 
 
“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  February  14,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
“Project  Governing  Board”  means 
paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Karnataka. 
 
“Project  Implementation  Unit”  means  the  unit  referred  to  in  paragraph  1(c)  of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 

the  governing  board  referred 

to 

in  

- 16 - 

payment 

procedures, 

institutional 

compensation 

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1(b) 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
“PPP” means public-private partnership. 
 
“PWD” means the Public Works, Ports and Inland Water Transport Department 
of Karnataka.  
 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated October 21, 2010 acceptable to 
the  Bank,  setting  forth,  inter  alia,  the  entitlement  framework,  land  acquisition 
and 
arrangements, 
implementation  schedules,  monitoring  and  coordination  mechanism,  and  cost 
estimates  for  the  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of  people  affected  by  the 
implementation of the Project; as said plan may be revised from time to time with 
the  written  agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and 
annexes supplemental to the RAP.  
 
“Resettlement  Policy  Framework”  means  the  resettlement  policy  framework 
described  in  chapter  II  of  the  RAP,  dated  October  21,  2010,  setting  out  the 
policies  and  procedures  for 
land  and  other  assets, 
compensation,  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons,  entitlement 
matrix,  and  for  the  preparation  of  resettlement  action  plans  as  may  be  required 
for  Project  activities  under  Part  B.2  of  the  Project,  as  said  frameworks  may  be 
revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  concurrence  of  the  Bank;  and 
such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  said 
framework.  
 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means, in the case of PWD, Parts A, C, and D 
of the Project, and in case of KRDCL, Part B of the Project. 
 
“TD” means the Transport Department of Karnataka. 

the  acquisition  of 

 
21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 
 
 
 

