CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8036-CN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
 
(Anhui Shaying River Channel Improvement Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 3, 2011  
 

 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

 
AGREEMENT  dated  June  3,  2011,  between  PEOPLE’S  REPUBLIC 
OF  CHINA  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions  or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  million  Dollars 
(US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 

2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  
non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable 
by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the 
General Conditions.  

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

- 2 - 

2.07. 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.   To  this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  (Anhui)  in  accordance  with  the provisions of  Article  V  of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
4.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 

- 3 - 

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
  
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 

 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 
AGREED  at  Beijing,  People’s  Republic  of  China,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 
 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

By /s/  Zhang Wencai 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/  Klaus Rohland  
 

Authorized Representative 

 
 
 

 

  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

- 4 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the increased cargo throughput of 
the Shaying River in Anhui Province through infrastructure improvements and capacity 
building. 
 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part A: Navigation Infrastructure and Facilities 
 
1. 

River  Channelization  and  Dredging:  Improvement  of  the  about  205.6  km  long 
river channel to the standard of Class IV by dredging and bank cusp-cutting. 
 
River  Bank  Strengthening  and  Protection:    Extension  and  strengthening  of  the 
existing river bank protection, and carrying out of new bank protection works in 
the river sections with deep and narrow channel, for a total length of about 43.87 
km. 
 
Navigation Signals:  Installation of about 213 navigation signals at key sections 
and locations. 
 
Service  Facilities:  Provision  of  two  service  areas,  six  public  anchorage  areas, 
communication and monitoring system, and other navigation aid facilities. 
 

Part B:  Reconstruction and Relocation of Existing Infrastructure and Facilities  

 

1. 

Reconstruction  of  four  existing  bridges  to  allow  for  sufficient  clearance  for 
navigation, including the Yumin Bridge and the Shaying Bridge in Jieshou City, 
and  the  Ying  River  Bridges  #1  and  #2  in  Taihe  County;  as  well  as  reinforcing 
and  anti-collision  works  to  the  navigable  opening  under  other  existing  bridges 
along the river channel. 
 

2. 

   Relocation or elevating of existing cross-river power cables and telephone lines. 

Part C:  Erection of Waterway Transport Management Systems  

 
Provision  and  installation  of  the  plants  and  equipment  which  are  needed  for 
building  two  management  systems:  (a)  Shaying  River  Waterway  Transport 
Management and Emergency Service System; and (b) Comprehensive Ship Lock 
Management System, to be developed by the technical studies under Part D.   

2. 

3. 

4. 

1. 

 

 

- 5 - 

Part D:  Technical Assistance  
 
1. 

Carrying  out  of  technical  studies  on:  (a)  Shaying  River  Waterway  Transport 
Management and Emergency Service System; and (b) Comprehensive Ship Lock 
Management System.  
 
Provision of well-tailored training programs to build the institutional capacity of 
the inland water transport sector to enable sustainable inland water development 
in Anhui Province. 

2. 

- 6 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

Financing and Implementation Arrangements 

Onlending Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

 

 

2. 

To facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity 
(Anhui),  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  the 
Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
(i) 

The  principal  amount  shall  be  made  available  in  Dollars  or  any  other 
Currency  as  the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a 
Currency Conversion (such principal amount determined on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn.    
 
The  principal  amount  so  made  available  (including  an  amount  equal  to 
the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement and any Premium 
for  Interest  Rate  Caps  or  Interest  Rate  Collars  paid  pursuant  to  
Section  2.07(c)  of  this  Agreement  and  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General 
Conditions)  shall  be  recovered  over  a  period  of  twenty  (20)  years, 
inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years. 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest 
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 

 
The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Anhui)  to: 
(a)  manage,  operate,  monitor,  transfer  and  reconcile  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
made  available  to  it  pursuant  to  paragraph  1  above  in  accordance  with 
arrangements  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  (b)  take  all  required 
actions,  including  provision  of  timely  consents  and  approvals  as  may  be 
necessary, 
the 
implementation  of  the  Project  and,  to  enable  the  Project  Implementing  Entity 
(Anhui)  to comply with  its  undertakings under this Agreement and the Project 
Agreement;  and  (c)  maintain  all  relevant  records  and  documents  related  to  the 
Loan  and  the  Project  and  provide  promptly  such  documents  and  records, 
including all other information, as may be requested by the Borrower or the Bank 
from time to time. 

the  utilization  of  said  Loan  proceeds  and 

to  facilitate 

 

- 7 - 

Anti-Corruption 

B. 
 
 

 
Section II. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

3. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 
 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  Project  Report  not  later  than  
forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited 
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.  

Procurement 

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

Goods  and  Works.      All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 
3. 

- 8 - 

requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

International  Competitive  Bidding. 
  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in 
paragraphs  2  and  4  below,  goods  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded  on  the  basis  of  International  Competitive  Bidding.  The  provisions  of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall  apply  to  goods  manufactured  in  the  territory  of  the  Borrower  (other  than 
goods  manufactured  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
Borrower  or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).  
 
National  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  4 
below,  works  costing  less  than  $20,000,000  equivalent  per  contract  and  goods 
costing  less  than  $1,000,000  equivalent  per  contract  may  be  procured  under 
contracts awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures, subject to the 
additional provisions provided in paragraph 3 below. 

Procedures for National Competitive Bidding. The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  set  forth  in  the  Law  on  Tendering  and 
Bidding  of the  People’s  Republic  of  China  promulgated by  Order  No.21  of  the 
President  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  August  30,  1999,  with  the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 

All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except works contracts 
that  are  estimated  to  cost  more  than  $100,000  equivalent  but  less  than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each or goods contracts that are estimated to cost 
less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which  may  be  advertised  in  a 
provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such  advertisement  shall  be  made  in 
sufficient  time  for  prospective  bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, 
a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date 

- 9 - 

of  advertisement  in  such  newspaper  and the  deadline  for  submission  of 
bids,  and  the  advertisement  and  bidding  documents  shall  specify  the 
deadline for such submission. 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of  evaluating  the 
qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in  detail  in  the  bidding 
documents. 

All  bidders  that  meet  the  qualification  criteria  set  out  in  the  pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 

All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to  protect the  employer  in case  of  breach of  contract by  the  contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such  security.  In  place  of  a  bid  security,  the  bidding  documents  may 
require that a bidder submit with its bid a signed declaration that, if the 
bidder withdraws its bid during the bid validity period or, if awarded the 
contract,  the  bidder  fails  to  sign  the  contract  or  submit  any  required 
performance  security  before  the  deadline  required  in  the  bidding 
documents,  the  bidder  will  be  suspended  for  a  period  of  two  (2)  years 
from  being  awarded  any  contract  with  the  Borrower  or  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  (Anhui),  including  any  of  their  departments, 
agencies or administrative units. 

Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 

All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be  afforded  an 
opportunity 
their 
(either 
representatives)  at  the  time  of  bid  opening,  but  bidders  shall  not  be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 

to  be  present 

in  person  or 

through 

 
(vii)  All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding  documents 
and  quantified  in  monetary  terms  or  expressed  in  the  form  of  pass/fail 
requirements. 

 
(viii)  No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or  bracket  of  average  bids 
established by the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity (Anhui). 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive 
bidder,  that  is,  the  bidder  who  meets  the  appropriate  standards  of 
capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been  determined:  (A) to  be 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

 
(v) 

 
(vi) 

 
(ix) 

- 10 - 

substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding  documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the 
lowest  evaluated  cost.  The  winning  bidder  shall  not  be  required,  as  a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in  the  bidding  documents  or  otherwise  to  modify  the  bid  as  originally 
submitted. 
 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the  suppliers  and  contractors  shall  permit  the  Bank,  at  its  request,  to 
inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to  the  performance  of  the 
contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and  records  audited  by  auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower’s  territory  may  be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods if they can establish that 
they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous;  (B)  operate  under 
commercial  law;  and  (C)  are  not  a  dependent  agency  of  the  agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 

(x) 

(xi) 

(xii)  Re-bidding  should  not  be allowed solely  because the  number  of  bids  is 
less  than  three  (3),  and  rejection  of  all  bids  or  rebidding  shall  not  take 
place without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 

(xiii)  The results of bid evaluation and contract award shall be published in the 
national  press  or  provincial  press  or  official  gazette  or  a  free  and  open 
access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered  price  of  the 
winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and  summary  scope  of  the 
awarded contract.  
 

(xiv)  The Project Implementing Entity (Anhui) shall have in place provisions 

for bidders to protest. 

 

Other  Method  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works.    The  following  table 
specifies  the  method  of  procurement,  other  than  International  or  National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such method may be used. 

Procurement Method 

(a)  Shopping 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 

4. 

 

 
C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

 
3. 

 
D. 
 
1. 

2. 

- 11 - 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 

(a)   Quality-Based Selection 

(b)   Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 

(c)  

Individual Consultants 

The  short  lists  of  consultants  for  services  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000 
equivalent may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  the 
following  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Prior  Review  by  the  Bank:  (a)  each 
contract  equivalent  to  $500,000  or  more  for  goods  and  $5,000,000  or  more  for 
works, all direct contracting, and the first contract for works and goods regardless 
of  contract  value;  and  (b)  each  contract  for  consultants’  services  in  excess  of 
$100,000  or  equivalent  for  firms,  or  $20,000  or  equivalent  for  individual 
consultants,  all  single-source  selection  of  consultants,  and  the  first  contract  for 
consultants’  services  regardless  of  contract  value.  All  other  contracts  shall  be 
subject to ex-post review by the Bank.  
  
Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  the 
terms-of-reference  for  all  consultant  contracts,  regardless  of  value,  shall  be 
subject to Prior Review by the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

- 12 - 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
 
 
Category 

 
Allocated  
Amount 
(expressed in US$) 
62,240,000 

Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
45% 

(1)  Civil works under Part A of 

the Project 

Project 

(2)  Civil works under Part B of the 

27,440,000 

(3)  Equipment and goods under 

  3,990,000 

(4)  Plants and equipment under 

  3,820,000 

Part A of the Project 

Part C of the Project 

(5)  Technical study and training 

         780,000 

(6)  Interest during construction 

  1,480,000 

(7)  Front-end Fee 
 
 
 

     250,000 
 
 

(8)  Premium on Interest Rate Cap 

  0 

or Interest rate Collar 

 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

 
100,000,000 

 

50% 

100% 

60% 

100% 

Amounts payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(c) of the 
General Conditions until  
June 30, 2016  
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 

Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 

 
2. 

 

 

- 13 - 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $10,000,000  equivalent 
may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  
September 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures under the Project. 
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2016. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 
 

- 14 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 

 
Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

October 15, 2017 
April 15, 2018 
October 15, 2018 
April 15, 2019 
October 15, 2019 
April 15, 2020 
October 15, 2020 
April 15, 2021 
October 15, 2021 
April 15, 2022 
October 15, 2022 
April 15, 2023 
October 15, 2023 
April 15, 2024 
October 15, 2024 
April 15, 2025 
October 15, 2025 
April 15, 2026 
October 15, 2026 
April 15, 2027 
October 15, 2027 
April 15, 2028 
October 15, 2028 
April 15, 2029 
October 15, 2029 
April 15, 2030 

2.51% 
2.57% 
2.64% 
2.70% 
2.77% 
2.84% 
2.91% 
2.98% 
3.06% 
3.13% 
3.21% 
3.29% 
3.38% 
3.46% 
3.55% 
3.64% 
3.73% 
3.82% 
3.91% 
4.01% 
4.11% 
4.22% 
4.32% 
4.43% 
4.54% 
4.65% 

- 15 - 

October 15, 2030 
April 15, 2031 

4.77% 
4.85% 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
2.  

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in  the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

- 16 - 

 

- 17 - 

APPENDIX 

 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anhui”  means  the  Borrower’s  Province  of  Anhui,  and  any  successor  thereto, 
and also referred to as Project Implementing Entity. 

“APMO” means the Anhui Provincial Project Management Office, established by 
the Project Implementing Entity (Anhui), and to be maintained according to the 
provisions of paragraph 1(b) of Part A of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
“APTD”  means  the  Anhui  Provincial  Transport  Department,  established  by 
Project  Implementing  Entity  (Anhui),  and  to  be  maintained  according  to  the 
provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Part A of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means 
the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.  
 
“APPSCIG”  means  Anhui Provincial  Port  &  Shipping  Construction  Investment 
Group  Co.  Ltd.,  a  company  solely  owned  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity 
(Anhui)  and  duly  incorporated  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower,  and  registered 
under License No.340000000002493, in the Province of Anhui, and which is to 
be  maintained  according  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1(d)  of  Part  A  of  
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
“APPSMB”  means  Anhui  Provincial  Port  and  Shipping  Management  Bureau, 
established  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Anhui),  and  to  be  maintained 
according  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1(c)  of  Part  A  of  Section  I  of  the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
“Construction  Period”  means  the  period  commencing  on  January  1,  2011  and 
ending on June 30, 2016 in relation to the construction of works  under  Parts A 
and B of the Project. 
 
“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 

 
2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

 

- 18 - 

10. 

 
11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

 
18. 

“Displaced  Person”  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or  (ii)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and 
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 

“Environmental Management Plans” or the acronym “EMP”  means collectively, 
each  of  the  Environmental  Management  Plans,    dated  September  1,  2010,  
adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Anhui),  which  plans  set  out  the 
environmental  protection  measures  in  respect  of  the  Project,  as  well  as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
plans,  as  said  plans  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written 
agreement  of  the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements 
supplemental 
thereto;  and  “Environmental  Management  Plan”  means, 
individually, any of the Environmental Management Plans. 
 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual dated 
June  24,  2010,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  sets  out  the  overall  Project 
financial  management  arrangements  in  respect  of  Project  flow  of  funds, 
accounting  policies  and  procedures, chart  of  accounts,  financial  and accounting 
procedures,  books  of  accounts,  financial  reporting,  and  internal  controls,  as  the 
same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  prior  mutual  consent  of  the 
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements 
supplemental thereto.  
 
“Fuyang City” means the city in Anhui, where the Project is located. 
 
“Fuyang Government” means the government of Fuyang City. 
 
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 
 
“Interest  during  construction”  means  the  interest  and  other  charges  accrued 
during the Construction Period, and payable on the Loan in accordance with the 
terms set forth or referenced in this Agreement. 
 
“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated December 10, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 

- 19 - 

19. 

20. 
 
21. 

 

22. 

Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Anhui of even 
date  herewith  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time;  and  such  term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui. 

“Resettlement Action Plans” or the acronym “RAPs” means, collectively, each of 
the  Resettlement  Action  Plans,  dated  August  24,  2010,    adopted  by  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  (Anhui),  which  plans  set  out,  inter  alia:  (a)  the  principles 
and  procedures  governing  land  acquisition,  resettlement,  compensation  and 
rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the  Project; 
and  (b)  reporting  and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure  compliance  with  said 
plans,  as  said  RAPs  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written 
agreement of the Bank; and “Resettlement Action Plan” means, individually, any 
of the Resettlement Action Plans. 

“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on annual work 
plans  and  budgets  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars, 
workshops,  and  domestic  and  overseas  study  tours,  along  with  travel  and 
subsistence  allowances  for  training  participants,  services  of  trainers,  rental  of 
training  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of  training  materials,  and  other 
activities directly related to course preparation and implementation. 
 

