CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7999-RU 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Preservation and Promotion of Cultural Heritage Project) 
 

between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated March 23, 2011 

 

LOAN NUMBER 7999-RU 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement dated March 23, 2011, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread,  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

(b) 

 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  MOC,  with  the  assistance  of  FISP,  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

(b) 

FISP  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Agency 
the 
in  such  a  way  as 
Agreement 
implementation of the Project; and 

to  materially  and  adversely  affect 

the  Agency  Agreement,  or  any  provision  thereof,  shall  have  been  amended, 
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  in  such  a  way  as  to  materially  and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or FISP to carry out the Project. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Events  of  Acceleration  consist  of  the  following,  namely:  any  event 
specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  or  (b)  of  Section  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  and  is 
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

-2- 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

the Agency Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower, represented 
by  the  MOF  and  MOC,  and  FISP,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank; 

(b) 

the Borrower has established the Inter-ministerial Committee with a composition 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and 

(c) 

the MOC has adopted the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank. 

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the  Agency 
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  by  the  Borrower  and  FISP  and  is  legally  binding 
upon the Borrower and the FISP in accordance with its terms. 

 
5.03.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 

this Agreement. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance or authorized Deputy Minister 

 

 
 
 

 

of Finance. 

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation 
Ilyinka Street 9 
103097 Moscow 
Russian Federation 

Telex:   

112008  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Facsimile: 

(7-495) 925-0889 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

-3- 

AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

RUSSIAN FEDERATION 

By /s/ Andrey E. Busygin 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Pedro Alba 

Authorized Representative 

-4- 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are:  (i)  to  support  the  conservation,  safekeeping  and 
promotion  of  cultural  heritage  assets  in  Leningrad,  Pskov,  Novgorod  and  Tver  oblasts  of  the 
Borrower; and (ii) to strengthen regional capacity for cultural heritage management so it supports 
the socio-economic development of the Participating Oblasts.   
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part 1. Integrated Heritage Site Development 
 
(a) 

Rehabilitation and improvement of cultural heritage sites and institutions

 
(ii) 

 
(b) 

Carrying  out  a  program  of  Sub-projects  to  support  the  rehabilitation,  improvement, 
safekeeping and conservation of cultural heritage sites with strong cultural significance: 
 
(i) 

support to large-scale, integrated site development and management Sub-projects 
consistent  with  regional  (oblast  level)  development  plans,  to  finance  the 
conservation of built heritage and other site interventions; and  

support  to  small  scale  local  Sub-projects  aiming  at  improving  existing  cultural 
heritage  sites  and  institutions,  enhancing  their  appeal  to  visitors  and  value  for 
local populations.  

Capacity building for integrated site development

Provision  of  consultants’  services  and  Training  to  build  the  capacity  of  oblasts, 
municipalities  and  state  cultural  institutions  with  a  view  to  improving  cultural 
development, including: 
 
(i) 

activities required to improve the capacity of the Participating Oblasts in cultural 
heritage management and, specifically, in linking cultural heritage with economic 
and social development; 
 
pre-identified Training and capacity building specific to Sub-project investments 
as  well  as  additional  support identified  by  a  Beneficiary  to  ensure the  effective 
implementation of a proposed Sub-project; and 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

exchange  of  experiences  between  Beneficiaries  to  promote  knowledge  and 
innovation sharing.   

 
Part 2. Protection of Museum Assets  
 

Support  the  Borrower’s  efforts  in  protecting  and  promoting  the  moveable  cultural 
heritage assets of Russia, through:   

-5- 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

Improvement of collection management, conservation and storage

Improving the management of museum collections of the Leningrad Oblast through the 
development of enhanced conservation and storage practices and capacity, including: (i) 
the  carrying  out  of  an  in-depth  institutional  and  physical  needs  assessment  for  the 
development of a conservation and storage strategy; (ii) targeted technical assistance to 
improve  the  management  of  collections,  including,  inter  alia, spatial  management, 
conservation, reporting practices and practices for electronic management of collections; 
and  (iii)  the  construction  of  a  Multifunctional  Museum  Facility,  for  conservation, 
research  and  training  purposes,  including  laboratories  and  studios  for  various  types  of 
items  and  materials  (e.g.,  works  on  paper,  wood,  canvas;  metal,  porcelain,  etc.)  and 
serving as a regional hub for providing professional culture and art services. 

Development and testing of museum security practices

(i) 

(ii) 

Development  of  practical  guidelines  and  specifications 
the 
installation of modern security systems, including training guidelines for museum 
guards and security personnel, based on the specific category and characteristics 
of cultural institutions; and 
 
installation  and  testing  of  modern  security  equipment  and  provision  of  related 
training in selected cultural institutions in Participating Oblasts.  

to  promote 

Part 3.  Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 

Support  to  MOC  and  FISP  for  the  management,  implementation,  monitoring  and 
evaluation  of  the  Project,  including  the  development of  impact  monitoring  mechanisms 
for Sub-projects and the financing of Operating Costs; and support to the Borrower for 
the preparation of follow-up operations in the cultural sector. 

-6- 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 

MOC shall be responsible for the overall management and implementation of the Project. 
The Inter-ministerial Committee shall be responsible for overall coordination of activities 
under  the  Project,  and  for  approving  Sub-projects  under  Part  1  (a)  of  the  Project.  The 
Borrower shall ensure that, at all times throughout the duration of the Project, the Inter-
ministerial  Committee  functions  in  a  manner,  and  with  resources  necessary  for  the 
successful management and implementation of the Project. 

FISP  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  Project  management  and  implementation, 
including financial management, disbursement, procurement, safeguards compliance and 
reporting arrangements. To this end, the Borrower shall cause FISP to establish adequate 
coordination  mechanisms  with  each  Participating  Oblast  to  ensure:  (a) effective  and 
continuous communication with all stakeholders; and (b) close support for Sub-projects 
preparation and implementation.  

The Borrower shall, at all times throughout the duration of the Project: (a) cause FISP to 
perform in accordance with the Agency Agreement all the obligations of FISP therein set 
forth; and (b) maintain FISP, and ensure that it has the resources, is staffed by personnel 
with qualifications and under terms of reference, and functions at all times in accordance 
with  procedures  necessary  and  appropriate  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  and 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

cause  MOC,  FISP  and  Participating  Oblasts  to  perform  the  Project  in  a  timely 
manner and in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, and to apply and 
implement the actions, criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements therein set 
forth; and  

not  amend  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  amended  or  waived  said  Manual  or  any 
provisions thereof, except with the prior written approval of the Bank. 

 
(b)  

Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project. 

Without limitation upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
ensure  that  sufficient  annual  allocations  be  made  in  the  Borrower’s  budget  for  the 
Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project. 

 

4. 

The Borrower shall:  
 
(a)  

-7- 

 
C. 

 

D. 

1. 

 
2. 

E. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall,  and  shall  cause  FISP  and  Participating  Oblasts  to  ensure  that  the 
Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines. 

Anti-Corruption. 

Sub-projects. 

For purposes of Part 1 (a) of the Project, the MOC, through FISP, shall ensure: (a) the 
selection  and  approval  of  Sub-projects  in  accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria  and 
selection procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and (b) the conclusion 
of a Sub-project Agreement between the MOC and each Beneficiary for purposes of Parts 
1 (a) (i) and 1 (a) (ii) of the Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and  
specified in the Project Operational Manual, which shall include the following:  

(i)  
 
(ii)  

The financing of the Sub-project shall be on a grant basis. 

the  Environmental  Management  Framework, 

The MOC, through FISP, shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and 
those of the Bank, including the right to: (A) suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary  to  use  the  proceeds  of the  financing  provided  for  the  relevant  Sub-
project upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the 
related Sub-project Agreement; and (B) require each Beneficiary to: (I) carry out 
its  Sub-project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with sound 
technical,  economic,  financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards 
and practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with the Project 
the 
Operational  Manual, 
Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  the  site  specific  Environmental  Management 
Plan and Resettlement Action Plan when required and the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  loan  proceeds  other  than  the 
Borrower;  (II)  provide  the  resources  required  for  the  purpose;  (III)  maintain 
policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and  evaluate  in 
accordance  with  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of  the  Sub-
project and the achievement of its objectives; (IV) enable the Borrower and the 
Bank  to  inspect  the  Sub-project,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and 
documents; and (V) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing. 

The MOC, through FISP, shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the MOC shall not 
assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  Sub-project  Agreement  or  any  of  its  provisions 
without a prior agreement with the Bank. 

Safeguards. 

The Borrower shall, and shall cause FISP and each Beneficiary to ensure that: 

-8- 

 

 

3. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  respective  terms  of  the 
Environmental  Management  Framework  and 
the  Resettlement  Policy 
Framework; and 

the  Environmental  Management  Framework  and  the  Resettlement  Policy 
Framework,  or  any  provision  thereof,  shall  not  be  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated,  terminated  or  waived  or  permitted  to  be  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated,  terminated  or  waived,  except  with  the  prior  written  approval  of  the 
Bank.   

2. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  MOC,  shall  ensure  that  when  required  by  the  Resettlement 
Policy Framework: 

a  specific  Resettlement  Action  Plan,  including  the  relevant  social  assessment, 
will  be  prepared  in  a  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  prior  to 
execution of a respective work contract; and 

no  works  will  be  started  under  any  Sub-project  unless  all  affected  people  are 
fully compensated in accordance with the provisions of a respective Resettlement 
Action Plan.  

 
The  Borrower,  through  the  MOC,  shall  ensure  that  when  required  by  Environmental 
Management  Framework  a  site  specific  Environmental  Management  Plan  will  be 
prepared in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank prior to commencement of any 
works under a respective Sub-project.  

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower, through FISP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover  the  period  of one calendar  semester,  and shall be  furnished  to the  Bank  not  later 
than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be  furnished  to  the 
Bank not later than six (6) months following the Closing Date. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,  through 
FISP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, as part of the Project Report, not later than 
forty  five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial 

-9- 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 

1. 

2. 

reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

The Borrower, through FISP, shall have Financial Statements audited in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, provided that the 
first and last audit periods may, with the agreement of the Bank, cover a period of up to 
eighteen  (18)  months.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.  All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  goods  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table  specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 

-10- 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

 
E. 
 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualification 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultant 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

Procurement of Operating Costs 

Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category, with the exception of 
expenditures  for  Project  audit,  office  equipment  and  furniture,  can  be  procured  in 
accordance with the established Borrower’s administrative procedures acceptable to the 
Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  2  below.  The 
Borrower  may,  for  purposes  of  the  Project,  open  and  maintain  one  or  more  designated 
accounts in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04(a) of the General Conditions. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 

-11- 

the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

 

Category 

(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services  and  Training  for  the 
Project, except for Part 2 (a) of 
the Project  
(2)  Goods,  works 
consultants’ 
Part 2 (a) of the Project 
(3) Operating Costs 

and 
services  under 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
90,300,000 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
 
43% 

4,200,000 

5,500,000 

12% 

100% 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

 

100,000,000.00 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 

(a) 

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or  

B. 
 
1. 
 

 

(b) 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 

2. 

The Closing Date is July 31, 2017.

-12- 

ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 

Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 

 

Contracts for goods or works for which Part B of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations of the Borrower. 
In order to assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be modified as 
set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility

Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on requirements to 

1. 
No  restrictions  in  respect  of  eligibility  to  participate  in  bidding  for  contracts  shall  be 
placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those imposed by 
primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders  shall  only  be  required  to  register  for  bidding  provided  that  registration 
requirements  and  process  are  simple  and  non-discriminatory  and  otherwise  qualified  foreign 
bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No  preference  shall  be  accorded  to  bidders  on  the  basis  of  place  of  registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, material 
or equipment. 
 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for contracts if they 
can establish that they are legally and financial autonomous, operate under commercial law and 
are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents

Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been approved 

6. 
for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation

Bidding  opportunities  shall  be  advertised  in  national  press  of  wide  circulation. 
7. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least 30 days for bid preparation and submission of bids 
(excepting  contracts  for  readily  available  off-the-shelves  goods  or  standard  specification 
commodities or small value works)  
 
8. 
shall be advertised.  

The  opportunity  to  pre-qualify  for  procurements  involving  large  or  complex  contracts 

-13- 

 
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post qualification) 
shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so specified shall be used to 
determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders which are deemed not qualified to 
bid shall not be further considered and shall be rejected. 
 
Bid opening

10. 
Bids  shall  be  opened  immediately  after  the  deadline  for  bid  submission  and  in  the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be considered 
and shall be returned unopened.  
 
Rebidding

Rebidding  shall  not  necessarily  be  required if  only  one  bid has  been received  provided 
11. 
that  the  bid  received  is  responsive,  bid  price  is  acceptable  and  bidder  is  deemed  capable  of 
performing the contract.  
 
Bid evaluation

12. 
Evaluation  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding  documents  and  evaluation 
criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so specified shall be 
used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of bids for goods and works 
contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be present during 
evaluation.  No  information  relating  to  the  evaluation  shall  be  disclosed  to  any  bidder  until  the 
successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids  containing  material  deviations  from  technical  specifications  and/or  material 
reservations  to  the  terms  or  conditions  of  the  bidding  documents  shall  be  rejected  as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw material 
deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 
Evaluations  shall  be  made  in  strict  adherence  to  the  criteria  specified  in  the  bid 
15. 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be applied. 
Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
16. 
contract award.  
 

There  shall  be  no  negotiations  of  price  or  substance  with  “winning”  bidders  prior  to 

-14- 

 
SCHEDULE 3 
 

Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

 

 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each April 15 and October 15 
 

Beginning April 15, 2017  
through April 15, 2027 

 
 
On October 15, 2027 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

4.55% 

4.45% 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 

-15- 

 

4. 

 
5. 

outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

-16- 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Agency  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  entered  into  between  the  Borrower, 
represented by MOF and MOC, and FISP pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
which  shall  include  terms  specifying  the  responsibilities  of  FISP  in  respect  of 
management  and  implementation  of  the  Project,  including  compliance  with  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, the Project Operational Manual, the Environmental Management 
Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and making available to FISP, on a 
non-reimbursable  basis,  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to 
Categories  (1),  (2)  and  (3)  of  the  table  set  forth  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

 “Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 with modifications set forth in Section III of this Appendix. 

“Beneficiary”  means,  respectively,  for  purposes  of  Part  1  (a)  (i)  of  the  Project,  a 
Participating  Oblast,  and  for  purposes  of  Part  1  (a)  (ii)  of  the  Project,  a  cultural 
institution, applied for, or selected for carrying out a Sub-project. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Part A.2 Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 

 “Environmental  Management  Framework”  means  the  environmental  management 
framework  dated  January  26,  2010,  prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  describing  environmental  mitigation,  monitoring  and  institutional  measures 
required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  taken  to  eliminate  adverse  environmental  impacts, 
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as well as actions needed to implement 
said  measures,  including  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the  preparation  of  site  specific 
Environmental Management Plans and “chance finds” procedures.  

“Environmental  Management  Plan”  or  “EMP”  means  a  site  specific  environmental 
management  plan,  setting  forth  the  mitigation  and  monitoring  measures  required  to  be 
taken  to  avoid  or  minimize  adverse  environmental  impacts,  to  be  prepared  and 
implemented  in  a  manner  fully  consistent  with  the  Environmental  Management 
Framework, and “Environmental Management Plans” means said Plans, collectively.  

“FISP”  means  St.  Petersburg  Foundation  for  Investment  Projects,  a  non-commercial 
foundation 
of  
St.  Petersburg  No.  331-p,  dated  October  28,  1996,  and  registered  by  the  Registration 

to  Resolution 

the  Governor 

established 

pursuant 

of 

-17- 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 
 
12. 
 
13. 

14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

19. 

Chamber of St. Petersburg, under Certificate of Registration No. 43863, dated March 4, 
1997, and which is the party to the Agency Agreement. 

for  Reconstruction  and 
“General  Conditions”  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

the  “International  Bank 

“Inter-ministerial  Committee”  means  the  Borrower’s  committee  established  pursuant  to 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement. 

“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture or any successor thereto. 

“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 

“Operating Costs” means reasonable incremental costs associated with the administration 
of  FISP,  including:  Project  audit,  staff  salaries,  training,  including  study  tours  and 
seminars, social charges, office and vehicle rental, maintenance and minor refurbishing of 
office and equipment, office equipment, furniture, materials and supplies, communication 
costs, support for information systems, translation expenses, bank charges, and travel and 
per diem costs of FISP staff directly associated with implementation of Project activities, 
and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic 
budgets acceptable to the Bank. 
 
“Participating  Oblasts”  means  the  Leningrad,  Novgorod,  Pskov  and  Tver  oblasts  of the 
Russian Federation and “Participating Oblast” means individually any of the said oblast. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 
2010. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated 
September 17, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Operational  Manual”  means  the  manual  adopted  by  the  MOC  pursuant  to 
Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project 
implementation,  including  the  eligibility  criteria  and  selection  procedures  for  Sub-
projects. 

“Resettlement  Action  Plan”  means  a  resettlement  action  plan  for  a  site  specific 
resettlement;  to  be  prepared  and  implemented  in  a  manner  fully  consistent  with  the 
Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  and  “Resettlement  Action  Plans”  means  said  Plans, 
collectively.  
 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the resettlement policy framework, satisfactory 
to  the  Bank,  dated  January  26,  2010,  prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  setting  forth,  inter 
alia: (i) the description of areas covered by the Project; (ii) the legal basis and screening 
process  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and  land  use  in  connection  with  works  and 

-18- 

construction activities to be carried out under the Project; (iii) the resettlement principles 
and entitlements of Project affected people based on different categories of impact; (iv) 
the procedures for valuation, compensation and other assistance provided to the affected 
people,  including  the  grievance  process;  and  (v)  the  responsibilities,  procedures  and 
requirements  for  the  development  and  implementation  of  site  specific  Resettlement 
Action Plans. 

“Sub-project” means a specific investment under Part 1. (a) of the Project, selected by the 
Inter-ministerial Committee, in accordance with Part D of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Project Operational Manual. 
 
“Sub-project  Agreement”  means  an  agreement  executed  between  the  MOC  and  a 
Beneficiary  for  the  purposes  of  Part  1.  (a)  of  the  Project  and  referred  to  in  Part  D  of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and 
other  training  activities,  not  included  under  goods  or  service  providers’  contracts, 
including costs of training materials, space and equipment rental, travel, accommodation 
and  per  diem  costs  of  trainees  and  trainers,  trainers’  fees,  and  other  training  related 
miscellaneous costs. 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

(l)  Ineligibility. The  Bank  or  the  Association  has  declared  the  Borrower  (other 
... 
than  the  Member  Country)  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  ineligible  to  receive 
proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or  otherwise  to 
participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project  financed  in  whole  or  in 
part  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a  determination  by  the  Bank  or  the 
Association  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in 
fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive  practices  in  connection  with  the  use  of  the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration 
by  another financier  that the  Borrower (other than the  Member  Country)  or the  Project 
Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of financing made by such financier 
or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in 
whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the 
Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive 
or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by 
such financier.” 

The  following  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  as  follows,  and  the 
following new definitions are added in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows: 

-19- 

 
20. 

21. 

22. 

 

2. 

 

 (a) 
 

(b) 

 

 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Variable Rate” is modified, in relevant part, to read as 
follows: 

“(c) 
upon a Currency Conversion to an Approved Currency of an amount of 
the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  that  accrues  interest  at  a  variable  rate  during  the 
Conversion  Period,  the  variable rate  of  interest applicable  to such  amount  shall 
be equal to either: (i) the sum of: (A) LIBOR,  or such other base rate as may be 
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, for the Approved Currency; plus (B) the 
spread to LIBOR or to such other base rate, if any, payable by the Bank under the 
Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Currency Conversion; or (ii) if the 
Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest 
rate component of the Screen Rate.” 

 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  

Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 

 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed by the 
Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or entities 
who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity  has  been  debarred  by  another  financier  as  a  result  of  a  determination  by  such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 

 

Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 

2. 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures (fn13) a 
Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, including (but 
not  limited  to)  declaring  such  Borrower,  individual  or  entity  ineligible  publicly,  either 
indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) 
to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-
contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the 
project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with the use of loan 
proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered into an agreement for 
the  mutual  enforcement  of  debarment  decisions  has  declared  such  person  or  entity 

-20- 

 
Footnotes:

 

 

ineligible  to  receive  proceeds  of  financings  made  by  such  financier  or  otherwise  to 
participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project  financed  in  whole  or  in 
part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower 
or  the  individual  or  entity  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive 
practices  in  connection  with  the  use  of  the  proceeds  of  a  financing  made  by  such 
financier.” 

“13.  An individual  or  entity  may  be  declared  ineligible to  be  awarded  a  Bank  financed 
contract  upon  completion  of  sanctions  proceedings  pursuant  to  the    Bank’s  sanctions 
policies  and  procedures,  or  under  the  procedures  of  temporary  suspension  or  early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction  by  another  financier  with  whom  the  Bank  has  entered  into  a  cross  debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 

“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 

“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set  of  sanctions  available  to  the  Bank.  In  addition,  the  Bank  has  adopted  an  internal 
protocol  outlining  the  process  to  be  followed  in  implementing  debarments  by  other 
financiers,  and  explaining  how  cross-debarments  will  be  posted  on  the  Bank’s  website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 

-21- 

