OFFICIAL

LOAN  NUMBER  8170-CN

Loan Agreement

(Gansu  Qingyang Urban  Infrastructure  Improvement Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

)- 

/ 

7

,2012

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

, 2012  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree  as follows:

("Borrower") 

and 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or in
the Appendix to this Agrcement.

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01.  At the Borrower's  request, the  Bank  agrees to lend  to the  Borrower,  on the  terms
and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one
hundred  million  Dollars  ($100,000,000)  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from
time  to time  through  a Currency  Conversion in  accordance  with the provisions  of
Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project
described  in Schedule  I to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  of the Lcan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon a Conversion  of all or any portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan, the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any
amount  of the  Withdrawal  Loan Balance remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by
the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of the
General Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment  Dates are June  15  and  December  15  in  each year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 

amortization  schedule  set  forth  in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at  any time  request any of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the Loan  Currency  of all  or any  portion of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change of the  interest rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all or any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or  (C)  all of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to a Variable  Rate based on a Fixed Spread;  and (iii)  the
setting of limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as defined
in  the General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time to time  for the  purpose  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  (Gansu)  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  V  of
the  General  Conditions and  the Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall

-3-

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that
Xifeng  District  or  QWSSC  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of their  respective
obligations  under the  QWSSC Agreement.

ARTICLE V -EFITECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is the  Borrower's Minister  of Finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address is:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's Republic  of China

Facsimile:

(86-10)  6855-1125

6.03. 

The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank fcr Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People's  Republic  of China,  as  of the  day  and  year  first

above  written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

By 

Authori  d  ep 

entative

Name:?

Title:P

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Title: 

6-'7 

a$wCA

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  Qingyang  Municipality  to  improve
selected  urban  infrastructure  services,  including  urban  roads  and  urban  environmental
services.

The  Project consists of the  following  parts subject to modifications  thereof as the

Borrower  and the Bank  may agree  upon from time to time to achieve  such objective:

Part  . Urban Infrastructure  Improvements

1 .

Urban  Bypass:

2. 

Integrated Road  Corridor:

construction  of  bypass  roads  of  the  southern  section  of  the  Xifeng
District's  West  Ring  Road  and  the  northern  section  of  the  Xifeng
District's East Ring Road with  installation  of associated pipes;  and

construction  of three  connection  roads  to  the two bypass  corridors  of the
West Ring Road  and the  East Ring Road (connection  road from the  West
Ring  Road  to  the  Provincial  Highway  202,  a  section  of the  Anding  Xi
Road  linking to  the  West  Ring  Road  and  a section  of the  Guxiang  Road
linking to the  East Ring Road) with installation  of associated  pipes .

Improvement  of three  (3)  selected  main  road  corridors  (Nan  Bei  Street,
Anding  Dong  Xi  Road,  West  Ring  Road),  including  road  pavement,
traffic  channelization,  and lighting and greening, along with drainage  and
sewage  system  improvements;

rehabilitation  of three  (3)  selected  backstreets  and  small  lanes  for  slow
traffic (Nanyua,  Tianhe  and Xifeng  lanes); and

carrying  out,  as  part  of  the  design  of  the  integrated  road  corridor,  the
Parking  Action  Plan,  the  Public  Transport  Action  Plan;  and the  Traffic
Safety, Education  and Enforcement  Action Plan.

3. 

Drainage  and  Sewage:

Construction  of  drainage  and  sewer  mains  for  a  section  each  of  the
Xifeng  District's  West Ring  Road,  Anding  East Road  and Anding  West
Road;

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

rehabilitation  of  sewage  collection  pipes 
in  Xifeng  District;  and
associated  improvements  of road  pavement,  street  lighting  and  greening
along these roads;  and

4.  Waste Water Treatment Plant:

Construction of:

a  new  waste  water  and  treatment  plant  in  the  eastern  area  of Xifeng
District;

a wastewater  pumping station in the Xifeng  District's northern  area;  and

wastewater  trunks  and  collectors  associated  to  the  investments  in  4(a)
and (b)  above.

Part H.  Institutional Strengthening  and Capacity Building

Provision of technical  assistance  for:

carrying  out  of a  water  resource  study  covering,  among  others,  water
reuse,  sub-basin  water  environment 
industrial
wastewater  discharge  licenses  in  Xifeng District that support  the ongoing
investments  of wastewater  management;

improvements  and 

the  improvement  of  the  operation  and  maintenance  capabilities  of
QWSSC  and  Xifeng  Municipality's  Public  Utility  and  Transportation
Bureaus  in  the  provision  of  urban  infrastructure  services  in  the  key
sectors  of drainage and wastewater  and urban road transport;

capacity  building  and  training  for  Qingyang  Municipality's  and  Xifeng
District's  agencies  involved  in Project implementation;

strengthening  of QWSSC's  GIS-based  system  for  the  management  of its
drainage  and wastewater  pipes networks;  and

Strengthening 
management  and  construction  supervision  of the Project.

the  Qingyang  Municipality's  capacity 

for  Project

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Financing Arrangenenis

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  make  available  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  to  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  (Gansu),  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the
Bank, including the following  principal terms:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  principal arount  shall  be made  available  in  Dollars (determined  on
the  date,  or  respective  dates,  of withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account)  of
the value of the  currency  or currencies  so withdrawn.

The  principal  amount  so made  available  (including  an  amount  equal  to
the fee paid pursuant to  Section  2.03  of this Agreement  and  for any caps
and  collars  and  interest  during  construction)  shall  be  recovered  over  a
period  of twenty-five  (25)  years,  inclusive  of a  grace  period  of five  (5)
years.

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of interest
applicable  from  time  to time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to the  provisions  of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the Project  is carried  out in  accordance  with the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project  Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate,  and  cause  the  Project Implementing
Entity  (Gansu)  to  moni:or  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accoidance  with the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions and on the basis  of the indicators  set forth in Annex B of the  Schedule
to  the  Project Agreement.  Each  Project Report  shall  cover the  period of one  (1)
calendar semester,  and shall be furnished  to the Bank not later than  March  15  and
September  15  each year, starting on March  15,  2013.

-8-

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain,  or cause to be  maintained,  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without limitation  on the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of the  Project  Report  by  not  later  than
March  15  and  September  15  in  each  year,  commencing  on  March  15,  2013,
interim  un-audited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  calendar
semester,  in form and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The Borrower  shall  have its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall cover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year  of the Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III.  . Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required for  the Project and  to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in Section  I  of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the  provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method  described  in Sections  II and [1  of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  1II,  IV  and  V  of Consultant  Guidelines,
as the  case  may be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding. 
in
paragraph  2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

-9-

under contracts  awarded  an the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.  The
provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
Appendix  2  thereto  shall  apply  to  goods  manufactured  in  the  territory  of the
the  Hong  Kong  Special
Borrower 
Administrative  Region  or  the  Macau  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the
Borrower).

than  goods  manufactured 

(other 

in 

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and
non-consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under which such  methocs may be used.

Procurement  Methods

(a) 

In  addition, 

to  be
National  Competitive  Bidding. 
followed  for  National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  set  forth  in
the  Law  on  Tendering  and  Bidding  of the  People's  Republic  of China
promulgated  by  Order No.21  of the President  of the People's  Republic
of China on Au gust  30,  1999,  with the  following  clarifications  required
for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines:

the  procedures 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  country,
except  for civil  works contracts that are estimated  cost  less than
$2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods  contracts  that  are
estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which
may  be  advertised  hii a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such
advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective
bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and
prepare  and submit their responses.  In any  event, a minimum of
thirty  (30)  days  shall  be  given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of
for
advertisement 
the  advertisement  and  bidding
submission  of  bids,  and 
documents  shall  specify the deadline for such  submission.

in  such  newspaper  and 

the  deadline 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of
evaluat:.ng  the  qualification  of each bidder  shall be  specified  in
detail  in the bidding documents.

All  bidders  that meet the qualification  criteria  set out in the pre-
qualification  document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there  shall
be no  limit on the number of pre-qualified  bidders.

(iv) 

All  bidders  shall  be  reauired  to  provide  security  in  an  amount

-10-

sufficient  to protect  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing
Entity (Gansu),  as the case  may be,  in case  of breach  of contract
by  the  contractor,  and  the  bidding  documents  shall  specify  the
required  form and amount  of such  security.

Bidders will  be allowed  to submit  bids by mail  or by  hand. The
time  for  opening of all bids shall be  the same  as the deadline  for
receipt of such bids.

All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be  offered
an  opportunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their
representatives)  at the  time of bid  opening,  but bidders  shall not
be required to be present at the bid opening.

(vii) 

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding
documents  and quantified in monetary  terms or expressed  in the
form of pass/fail  requirements.

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price
falls  outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or
bracket  of  average  bids  established  by  the  Borrower  or  the
Project  Implementing  Entity (Gansu),  as the  case  may be.

to  the 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded 
lowest  evaluated
responsive  bidder, that is,  the bidder  who meets  the  appropriate
standards  of capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The
winning  bidder shall  not be required, as a condition  of award,  to
undertake  responsibilities  for work  not  stipulated  in  the  bidding
documents  or  otherwise  to  modify 
the  bid  as  originally
submitted.

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall
provide  that the  suppliers and  contractors  shall  permit  the  Bank,
at  its  request,  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to
the  performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and
records  audited by auditors appointed  by the  Bank.

Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower's  country  may
be  permitted  to  bid or  submit  a proposal  of goods  and  works  if
they  can  establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially
autonomous;  (B)  operate under commercial  law;  and (C)  are not
a dependent agency of the  agency conducting  the  procurement.

(v) 

(vi) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

(xii)  All  bids  should  not  be  rejected  solely  because  the  number  of
bids  is  less than  three  (3),  and  rejection  of all bids  or  rebidding
the  Bank's  prior  written
shall  not 
concurre rce.

take  place  without 

(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be
published  in  the  national  press  or provincial  press  (as  provided
under  sub-paragraph  (i)  above)  or official  gazette or  a free and
open  access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered
price  of  the  winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and
summary  scope of the awarded contract.

(xiv)  The  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Gansu)  shall  have  in  place

provisions  for bidders to  protest.

(b) 

Shopping

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

in
Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
paragraph  2  below,  con3ultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded on the basis  of Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall specify  the circumstances  under which such methods  may be used.

Procurement  Methods

Selection  based on the Consultants'  Qualifications

Quality  Based Selection

Single-Source  Selection

Procedures  set forth  in paragraphs  5.2 and  5.3  of the Consultant
Guidelines  for the Selection  of Individual Consultants
Sole Source  Procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual Consultants

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(d) 

- 12  -

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan  shall set forth those  contracts which shall  be  subject to the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be  subject to Post  Review  by the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall
specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by the
Bank and as  made applicable  to this Agreement  pursuant  to such  instructions),  to
finance Eligible  Expenditures  as set forth in the table  in paragraph 2  below.

The following table  specifies the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category.

A. 

1. 

2. 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in Dollars) 

75,130,000 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
80%

Category 

(1)  Works for Parts I.1, 
I.2.(a)  and (b)  and
I.3.(a)  and  (b)  of the
Project

services,  and non-
consultant  services,
and  Training  for Parts
I.2(c),  and  II  of the
Project

(2)  Works for Part  1.4 of 

21,120,000 

the  Project

(3)  Goods, consultants' 

3,500,000 

80%

100%

(4)  Front-end Fee 

250,000 

Amount payable pursuant  to  Section
2.03  of this Agreement  and  in
accordance  with  Section  2.07(b)  of
the General  Conditions

- 13  -

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in Dollars) 

0 

Category 
(5)  Premium  for Interest 
Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

100,000,000

Percentage of Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
Amount payable pursuant to Section
2.07(c)  of this Agreement  and  in
accordance  with Section  4.05(c) of
the General  Conditions

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  tc  an  aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  $20,000,000  may
be  made  for payments  made  within twelve  (12)  months  prior to this date
but on or after March  1, 2012,  for Eligible Expenditures;  or

for payments made  under  Category  (2)  for expenditures  under Part 1.4  of
the  Project  until the  Bank  shall have  received  evidence  satisfactory to  the
Bank that:

(i) 

(ii) 

the  QWSSC  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  on
behalf of Xifeng  District and  QWSSC  and  is  legally  binding upon
the parties  thereto  in accordance  with  its terms;  and

a  legal  opiiion  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  from  counsel  acceptable
to the  Bank  has  been  received  by  the  Bank  confirming  that  the
QWSSC  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by
Xifeng  District  and  QWSSC,  and  is  legally  binding  on  such
parties  in accordance  with  its terms.

2. 

The Closing Date  is December 31,  2017.

-14-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule'

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by the Bank by  multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment Date, such repayable  amount to be  adjusted, as necessary,  to deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 
On each June  15  and December  15
Beginning  June  15,  2017 
through December  15,  2036

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

2.5.%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of such date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount of each  such withdrawal  by a fraction,  the numerator of which is
the  original Installment  Share  specified  in the table in paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for said Principal  Payment Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct any
amounts  referred  to in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which a Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn  within two (2)  calendar  months  prior to
any Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating

- 15  -

the  principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment Date,  be treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second Principal  Payment
Date following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued on or after the respective  Principal Payment  Date, the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
to  any
withdrawals made  after the adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all or any  portion of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior to the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the Bank  so  determines  in accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen Rate.

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  (1)  Loan
Currency,  the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount
denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization
schedule for each such  amount.

-16-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and Grants",  dated October  15,  2006,  and revised  in January 2011.

"Category"  means a category  set  forth in the  table  in Section  IV  of Schedule 2  to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project,  have  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social
impacts  caused  by:  (a) the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation
or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income
sources  or  means  of  livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  persons  must  move  to
another  location;  or  (b) the  involuntary restriction  of access  to  legally  designated
parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood  of such
persons; and a "Displaced  Person"  means  any of such  Displaced  Persons.

"Environmental  Codes  of  Practice"  means  the  detailed  practices  to  address
construction related  impacts of the  Project implementation  included  in the  EMP.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  "EMP" mean  the  Project  Implementing
Entity's  Environmental  Management  Plan,  dated  February  2,  2012,  which  sets
out,  with  respect  to  the  Project,  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and
including  capacity  building  through  training,  to  be
institutional  measures, 
implemented  in  Qingyang  to  eliminate  any adverse  environmental  impacts,  and
adverse  impacts  on  physical  cultural  resources,  of  activities  to  be  implemented
under  the  Project,  to  offset  them,  or to  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  to
enhance  positive  impacts;  as  well  as  administrative,  monitoring  and  reporting
arrangements  to  ensure  the  implementation  of said  plan,  as  said  plan  may  be
revised  from time to time  with the prior written agreement  of the  Bank, and  such
term includes  any annexes or schedules  to such  plan.

"Fiscal  Year"  means  the  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower  covering  the  period
January  1 through  December 31,  which  is also  the fiscal  year of QWSSC.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

- 17  -

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

"GIS"  means geographic  information  system.

"Parking  Action  Plan"  ireans  the  action  plan  to  be  prepared  and  carried  out
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Section  F.(a)(i)  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

The  acronym "PIU" means any  of the  Project Implementation  Units referred  to  in
Section I.A  1. (c)  of  the Schedule to the  Project Agreement.

The  acronym "PLG"  means the  Project Leading  Group referred to  in Section I.A.
1. (a) of the  Schedule  to t1fe  Project Agreement.

The  acronym  "PMO"  means  the  Project  Management  Office  referred  to  in
Section I.Al.(b)  of the  Schedule  to the  Project Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods, Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  April  26,  2012,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same shall  be
updated  from time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Implementing 
Province,  or any  successor thereto.

'Entity"  or  "Gansu"  means  the  Borrower's  Gansu

"Public Transport  Action  Plan"  means  the action plan  to  be prepared  and  carried
out  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of Section  F.(a)(ii)  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

"Qingyang  Municipality"  means  Qingyang  Municipality  within  Gansu,  or  any
successor thereto.

"QWSSC"  means  Qingyang  Water  Supply  and  Sewage  Company,  a  company
its
owned  by  Xinfeng  Disirict  and  established  and  operating  pursuant  to 
registration  at  Qingyang  Administration  of  Industry  and  Commerce  dated
November  8,  2011,  or any  successor thereto.

"QWSSC  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  Xifeng
District  and  QWSSC  pursuant  to  Section  I.E.  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term
includes all schedules  and supplements to said agreement.

-18-

21. 

22. 

23. 

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  and  "RAP"  means the  Project Implementing  Entity's
Resettlement  Action  Plan  dated  January  30,  2012,  which  set  out  the  principles
and  procedures  to  address  impacts  to  land  and  other assets  and  the  compensation
of Displaced  Persons  on account of the  execution  of Part I of the Project,  as well
as  administrative,  monitoring  and  reporting  arrangements  to  ensure  compliance
with  said  plan,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written agreement  of the Bank, and  such term  includes  any  annexes  or schedules
to such plan.

"Traffic  Safety,  Education  and  Enforcement  Action  Plan"  means the  action  plan
to  be  prepared  and  carried  out  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of Section  F.(a)(iii)  of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

"Training"  means,  for purposes  of Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,
the  reasonable  cost,  based  on  annual  plans  approved  by  the  Borrower  through
Gansu's  Finance  Department  and  the  Bank,  of travel,  lodging  and  per  diem  for
trainees  attending  training,  study tours,  workshops  and  seminars  and  the  cost  of
delivering  training  (excluding  consultants'  fees),  such as  rental  of training  space
and training equipment  and other logistical  costs.

25. 

"Xifeng  District"  means  the Xifeng  District within  the Qingyang  Municipality  or
any successor thereto.

