OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8163-CN

(Yunnan Technical  and  Vocational  Education and  Training Project)

Loan Agreement

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

A 

( 

sx 

, 2012

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

, 2012, between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree as follows:

r 
-
("Borrower") 

and 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  menings  ascribed  to them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to lend to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or
referred  to in  this  Agreement,  the amount  of fifty  million dollars  ($50,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  wilhdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable by the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to one  quarter of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon a  Ccnversion  of all or any portion of the  principal amount  of
the  Loan, the  interest  payable by  the  Borrower  during  the Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the Withdrawi Loan  Balance remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues for a  period of thirty(30) days, then the  interest payable  by the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates  are March  15  and  September  15  in each year.

-2-

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth in  Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdravn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed Spread;  and (iii)  the
setting of limits  on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding by  the  establishment  of an Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  aut  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the  Bonower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05 (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  tim,  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end, the  Borrower  shall cause  the  Project Implementing  Entity  (Yunnan)  to  carry
out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General
Conditions  and the  Project  Agreement.

-3-

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is.  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement  and the  Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  the Borrower's  Minister  of Finance.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:
Ministry  of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's  Republic  of China

Facsimile:

(86-10)  6855-1125

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Beijing,  Peoples  Republic  of China,  as  of the  day  and  year  first

above written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

A uthorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  the  quality  and  relevance  of technical
and  vocational  education  and  training  to  produce  skills  that  respond  to  the  labor  market
demand,  contributing  to  Yunnan's  economic  development  during  the  Borrower's  12th
Five  Year Plan  period.

The  Project consists  of the  following  parts:

Part A:  Improving  the  Quality  and  Relevance  of  TVET  Programs  in  Project

Schools

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

Strengthening  and  institutionalizing  school-industry  collaboration  through  the
provision  of  training,  technical  assistance  and  incremental  operating  costs  to:
(a) establish  formal  school-industry  collaboration  committees  and  sector  specific
industrial  advisory  committees;  and  (b)  develop  competency-based  standards  to
revise  selected  training programs.

Developing  school-based  CBT  curriculum  and  teaching-learning  materials,
including:  (a) the  preparation  of  core  curriculum  standards;  (b)  development  of
modular  curricula  and  other  teaching-learning  materials  through  a  cycle  of
piloting,  evaluating, and  revising;  (c)  publication  of school-based  new curriculum
materials;  and  (d)  establislment  of a school  level  teaching  and  learning  resource
bank.

Improving  management  and  instructional  capacity  of  school  managers  through,
inter  alia:  (a)  with  respect  to  top  and  middle  level  managers,  the  provision  of
domestic  and  overseas  trai-ing aimed  at:  (i) raising  awareness  of the  importance
and  specific  instruments  -:o  strengthen  linkages  with  industry;  (ii)  improving
technical  understanding  of the  process  of developing  competency-based  training
curriculum;  and  (iii)  evidence-based  policy  making  and  overall  management
capacity;  and  (b)  with resp.ct to  teachers,  the  provision of domestic  and  overseas
training  in the  area of:  (i) development  and use  of competency-based  curriculum;
(ii)  development  and  use  of  new  student-centered  pedagogy;  and  (iii)  skills
development  in  relevant  industries  towards  achieving  higher  levels  of  self-
certification  of skills.

the  quality  of  student  assessment  system  by  establishing  a
Improving 
competency-based  benchmark  for  measuring  student  and  school  performance
through  the  provision  of training,  technical  assistance  and  incremental  operating
costs  for:  (a)  the  development  and  implementation  of  new  student  assessment
instruments  including  a  graduate  tracer  study  and  employer  satisfaction  survey;

-6-

and  (b)  the  development  and  implementation  of  a  new  teacher  and  teaching
assessment  instrument.

Improving  instructional  ficilities  through:  (a)  the  expansion,  upgrading  and
construction  of training  centers  within  the  campus  of selected  Project  Schools;
(b)  the  provision  of  key  training  equipment  needed  for  the  revised  training
programs;  and  (c)  development  of  guidelines  for  the  management  of  training
facilities  and  equipment.

Provision  of  incremental  operating  costs  and  logistical  assistance  to  enhance
Project  impact  to  facilitale  the  participation  of interested  TVET  institutions  in
selected  Project  training  activities,  at  their  own  expenses,  and  to  provide  them
with  access  to CBT  and curriculum  materials  developed  under the  Project.

Part B:  Strengthening  Provincial  Capacity  in  Coordination,  Policy  Development,

and Monitoring and Evaluation

Strengthening  the  Provincial  coordination  of  TVET  activities  and  programs,
through  supporting  the  InLer-Departmental  TVET  Coordination  Committee  in:
(a)  carrying  out  study  visits  to  provinces  that  have  similar  coordination
mechanism;  (b)  carrying  cut  regular  meetings  to  discuss  TVET  affairs;  and  (c)
carrying out field  visits to  Project Schools.

Supporting  the  school  level  development  of  CBT  programs,  through:  (a)  the
formation  of  a  Provincial  Expert  Team  to  guide  the  curriculum  development  in
schools;  (b)  organization  of  teacher  training  in  student-centered  pedagogy;  (c)
carrying  out of teacher  trainings  in the  development  and  implementation  of CBT
curriculum;  and  (d)  carrying  out of teacher  training  related to  the  development of
curriculum  clusters.

Provision  of technical  advisory  services  and  incremental  operating  costs,  inter
alia,  to:  (a)  carry  out policy  research  and  produce  policy  briefs  related  to  various
TVET  topics;  and  (b)  organize  provincial  TVET  workshops  for  the  purpose  of
school-industry  collaboration  and  preparation  of  curriculum  development  case
studies and  lessons  learned.

Facilitating  Project  management,  through,  inter alia:  (a)  the  provision  of specific
training to  provincial  and  school  level  Project staff on  subjects  related  to  Project
and
management, 
evaluation;  and  (b)  suppor:,  through  the  PMO,  to  all  provincial  and  school  level
procurement,  financial  management  and monitoring  and  evaluation  activities.

financial  management,  procurement, 

and  monitoring 

5. 

6. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Financing Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

5. 

The  Borrower  shall  make  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Yunnan)
the proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from time  to  time to  the categories  as  set forth
in the table  in  Section  IV  of this  Schedule  under terms  and conditions  satisfactory
to the Bank,  including the  following  principal terms:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  principal  amo-nt  shall  be  made  available  in  Dollars  (determined  on
the  date,  or  respective  dates,  of withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account)  of
the value  of the currency  or currencies  so withdrawn.

The  principal  amount  so  made  available,  including  an  amount  equal  to
the  fee  paid  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of this  Agreement  and  the  amount
of any  Premium  paid  pursuant  to  Section 2.07(c)  of this Agreement,  shall
be  recovered  over  a period of twenty-five  (25)  years,  inclusive  of a  grace
period of eight (8)  years.

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

to  it  pursuant  to  paragraph  I  above 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Yunnan)  to:
(a)  manage,  operate,  mon tor,  transfer  and  reconcile  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
in  accordance  with
made  available 
arrangements  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  (b)  take,  all  required
actions,  including  provision  of  timely  consents  and  approvals  as  may  be
the
necessary, 
the  Borrower  and  the  Project
to  enable 
implementation  of  the  Project, 
Implementing  Entity  (Yunnan)  to  comply  with  their  respective  undertakings
under this  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement;  and  (c)  maintain  all  relevant
records  and  documents  related  to  the  Loan  and the  Project  and  provide  promptly
such  documents and  recorcs,  including  all other  information,  as  may  be requested
by the  Borrower or the  Bank from time to  time.

the  utilization  of  said  Loan  proceeds  and 

facilitate 

to 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Yunnan)  to  ensure
that,  prior  to  making  any  disbursement  to  any  specific  Project  School,  it  shall
have  entered  into  a  Subsiliary  Loan  Agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  with
such  Project  School.

-8-

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Anti-C  rruption  Guidelines, 
including  those  applicable  to
Recipients  of Loan proceeds  other than the  Borrower.

Section II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate,  and  cause  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  (Yunnan)  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in accorda-ice  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Annex  of  the
Schedule to  the Project Ag-eement.  Each Project Report  shall  cover the period  of
one  Fiscal Year, and  shall be furnished  to the  Bank not later than one  month  after
the  end of the period covered  by  such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the Borrower  shall
cause  to  be  prepared  and  furnished,  to  the  Bank,  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)
days  after the  end  of each calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for the  Project  covering  the  preceding  calendar  semester,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.0)(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  (1)  Fiscal  Year  of  the
Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished  to the  Bank not later than six (6)  months after the end  of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

All  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and  consultants'  services  required  for
the  Project  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Schedule 2  to the Project Agreement.

B. 

I. 

A. 

1. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

-9-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
additional 
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in  the table  in  paragraph 2  below.

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each Category.

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

30,282,500 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
75%

19,592,500 

100%

Category 

(1) Works 

(2)  Goods,  Consultants' 
services, Training
and  Study Tours,
and  Incremental
Operating Costs  for
the  Project

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

125,000  Amount payable  pursuant

to  Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07(b)  of the
General Conditions
Amount  due pursuant  to
Section  2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

(4)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

50,000,000

- 10  -

Withdrawal Conditions;  'Withdrawal Period

B. 

I. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $10,000,000  equivalent
may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  October  1,
2011,  for Eligible  Expenditures  under Categories  (1) and (2).

2. 

The  Closing Date  is December  31,  2017.

- 11 -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

15  September  2020 
15  March  2021 
15  September  2021 
15  March  2022 
15  September  2022 
15  March  2023 
15  September  2023 
15  March  2024 
15  September  2024 
15  March  2025 
15  September  2025 
15  March  2026 
15  September  2026 
15  March  2027 
15  September  2027 
15  March  2028 
15  September  2028 
15  March  2029 
15  September  2029 
15  March  2030 
15  September  2030 
15  March  2031 
15  September  2031 
15  March  2032 
15  September  2032 
15  March  2033 
15  September  2033 

2.28
2.31
2.35
2.38
2.42
2.46
2.49
2.53
2.57
2.61
2.65
2.69
2.73
2.77
2.81
2.85
2.89
2.94
2.98
3.03
3.07
3.12
3.16
3.21
3.26
3.31
3.36

15  March  2034 
15  September  2034 
15  March  2035 
15  September  2035 
15  March  2036 
15  September  2036 
15  March  2037 

- 12  -

3.41
3.46
3.51
3.56
3.62
3.67
3.54

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To  the  extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Pi incipal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction, the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the  table  in paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months prior to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely of calculating
the  principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment Date,  be  treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  dat:e  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices are  issuec  on  or after the  respective  Principal Payment  Date, the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption of such  billing  system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

- 13  -

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines, the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

- 14 -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Coruption  in Projects  Financed  by  IBRD Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth  in the  table  in Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"CBT"  means  Competency-Based  Training,  a  training  involving  a  cluster  of
related  knowledge,  skills,  and  attitudes  that  correlates  with  performance  on  the
job.

"ECOP" means  the  Envircnmental  Codes  of Practice,  adopted  and  disclosed  by
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  on  September  20,  2011,  which  set  out  the
guidelines  and  procedures  for  environmental  assessment  and  preparation  of
environmental  mitigation  measures  in  respect  of activities  under  the  Project,  as
well as administrative and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure the  implementation
of said  guidelines,  as  such  guidelines  may  be  revised  from time  to  time  with  the
prior written agreement  of the Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

"Fiscal  Year"  and  the  acrcnym  "FY"  mean  the  Borrower's  Fiscal Year  covering
the period  January  1 through December  31,  each  year.

on  account  of 

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  Project-related  incremental  operating  costs
incurred 
implementation,  management  and  monitoring,
dissemination  of  Project-related  information,  office  rental  and  office  equipment
leasing,  equipment
purchase  or 
maintenance  and  repair, 
to  Project  sites,  security,
communication,  bank  charges,  advertising,  and  other  costs  directly  associated
the  Project,  but  excluding  the  salaries  of the  Borrower's  and  the  Project
with 
Implementing  Entity's civil  servants.

leasing,  maintenance  and  repair,  vehicle 

including  travel 

travel, 

9. 

"Inter-Departmental  TVET  Coordination  Committee"  means  the  Committee
referred  to under Part B.1  of the Project.

- 15  -

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  December  31,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be
updated  from  time to  time in  accordance  with the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means the  Borrower's  Province  of Yunnan,  or any
successor thereto.

"Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  the  acronym  "PIU"  means  any  of the  Project
Implementation  Units  to  b.  maintained  by  each  of the  Project  Schools  pursuant
to  the  provisions  of paragraph  2(c)  of Section  I.B  of the  Schedule  to the  Project
Agreement.

"Project  Implementation  Manual"  or  the  acronym  "PIM"  means  the  Project
Implementation  Manual  fo- the Project,  dated  December  31,  2011,  which  sets  out
the  eligibility  and  cost-sharing  criteria  of Project  Schools,  procedures  and  details
regarding  the  implementat' on  of the  Project,  its monitoring  and  supervision,  and
which  includes  the  Financ:.al  Management  Manual,  as the  same  may be  updated
from time to  time, with  prior written agreement  of the  Bank.

"Project  Management  Office"  and  the  acronym  "PMO"  mean  the  Project
Management  Office  established  in  Yunnan  Provincial  Department  of Education,
and  to  be maintained  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of paragraph  2(a)  of Section  I.B
of the  Schedule  to the Project Agreement.

"Project  Schools"  means,  collectively,  the  following  learning  institutions:  (i)
Tengchong  No.1  Vocational  School;  (ii)  Dali  Secondary  Vocational  School;  (iii)
Yunnan  Technician  College;  (iv)  Yunnan  Jiaotong  College;  (v)  Yunnan  Traffic
Technician  College;  (vi)  Yunnan  Provincial  Tourism  and  Vocational  College;
(vii)  Yunnan  Qujing  Agricultural  School;  (viii)  Yunnan  Land  and  Resources
Vocational  College;  and  Iix)Yunnan  Forestry  Technological  College,  and  any
successors  to  the  foregoing  learning  institutions;  and  "Project  School"  means,
individually, any  of such  respective  Project  Schools.

"Provincial  Expert Team"  means  the  Provincial  TVET  Expert  Team  established
under Part B.2  of the  Project.

"Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements"  means,  collectively,  the  agreements  referred  to
Paragraph  A.3  of Section  I of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement and  in Paragraph  B.4
of  Section  I of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be
amended  from time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes all  schedules  and  agreements

- 16  -

supplemental  to  said  agreements;  and  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means,
individually, any  of said  Subsidiary Loan  Agreements.

19. 

20. 

"TVET"  means  technical  and vocational  education  and training.

"Training  and  Study  Tours"  shall  mean to  include  the costs  of training under  the
Project,  based  on  annual  work  plans  and  budgets  approved  by  the  Bank,  and
attributable  to  seminars,  workshops,  and  study  tours,  along  with  travel  and
subsistence  allowances  for  training  participants,  services  of  trainers,  rental  of
training  facilities,  prepara:ion  and  reproduction  of training  materials,  and  other
expenditures  directly  related  to  trainer  service  and  translation  for  course
preparation  and  implemen1ation.

21. 

"Yunnan"  means  the  Borrower's Province  of Yunnan,  or any  successor thereto.

