fiCtAL

LOAN  NUMBER  8121-ID

Loan Agreement

Jakarta Urgent Flood Mitigation  Project
(Jakarta Emergency  Dredging Initiative)

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2012

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  6 

N 
, 2012,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and the Bank  hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in 
constitute  an integral  part of this Agreement.

the  Appendix 

to  this.  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to lend to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or
referred  to in  this Agreement,  the  amount of one  hundred  thirty  nine  million  six
hundred  forty  thousand  United  States  Dollars  (US$139,640,000),  as  such  amount
may  be  converted  from  time  to  time 
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to
assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement
("Project")..

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section IV of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the Borrower  shall be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall pay  the Front-end  Fee
not  later than 60 days  after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided, that  upon  a Conversion  of all or  any portion of the principal  amount  of
the Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower during  the Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for a period of thirty(30)  days, then  the interest payable  by the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment Dates  are March  1 and  September  1 in each  year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisions  of Schedule  3  to this  Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all or  any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed Rate,  or  vice  versa,  or from  a  Variable
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed
Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding by the  establishment  of an  Interest Rate  Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the  Variable Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  carry  out  the MPW  Parts  of the  Project through  the
Ministry  of Public  Works  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions;  and  (b)  cause  the  DKI Parts  of the  Project to  be  carried  out
by  DKI,  as  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  for the  DKI  Parts  of the  Project,  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions  and  the
Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following:  PJA  has  acted  in
contravention  of  what  is  required  of  it  by  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  or  the
Project  Agreement,  or has  failed  to  take  any  action  that  it  is  required  to  take  by
the terms  of this  Agreement  or  the Project  Agreement,  in  each  case  in  a  manner

-3-

so  as  to  affect materially  and  adversely  the  implementation  of the  Project or  the
achievement  of the objective  thereof.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following:  The  event

specified  in Section 4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

the  Borrower  has  (i) established  the  Central  Project  Management  Unit,
the  Central  Project 
Implementation  Unit, 
each  Project
Implementation  Unit;  and  (ii)  each  of  the  Central  Project  Management
Unit, 
the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit  and  each  Project
Implementation  Unit  at each  of DGWR,  DGHS  and  DKI  has  adopted  the
Project Operations  Manual;

and 

the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the
Borrower and  DKI, as  the Project Implementing  Entity  for the DKI  Parts
of the Project.

5.02.  The Additional Legal  Matters  consist of the following.

The  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  by  the
Borrower  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with
its  terms.

Each  of the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement  has
been  duly  authorized  by  DKI  and  is  legally  binding  upon  DKI  in
accordance  with  its respective  terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

-4-

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its  minister at the time  responsible  for finance.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Directorate General  of Debt Management
Ministry  of Finance
Jalan Lapangan  Banteng  Timur 2-4
Jakarta  10710
Indonesia

Cable: 

FINMINISTRY  45799 
Jakarta

6.03.  The Bank's  Address  is:

Facsimile:

62-21-381-2859

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above

written.

-5-

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

Rahmat  WaluyantD
Authorized  RepresentativeÆ-

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

A uthorzed Representative

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the  Project  is to  contribute  to  the  improvement  of the  operation

and maintenance  of priority  sections  of Jakarta's  flood management  system.

The Project  consists  of the following parts:

Part 1.  Dredging  and  rehabilitation  of  selected  key  floodways,  canals  and

retention basins.

(a) 

Dredging  and  rehabilitation  of  the  Project  Sites  consisting  of  eleven 
(11)
floodways,  with  a  total  length  of  approximately  67.5  kilometers,  and  four  (4)
retention  basins,  with  a  total  area  of  approximately  65.1  hectares,  which  have
been  identified  as  priority  sections  of the  Jakarta  flood  management  system  in
need  of  urgent  rehabilitation  and 
flow  capacities;  and
transportation  and  disposal  of  materials  dredged  from  the  Project  Sites  in
Disposal  Sites.

improvement 

in 

(b) 

Rehabilitation  and/or  construction  of  approximately  42.2  kilometers  of
embankments  within  the  Project  Sites  and  replacement  or  repair  of mechanical
equipment  as necessary.

Part 2.  Technical  assistance  for  project  management,  social  safeguards  and

capacity  building.

Supporting  contracts  management,  engineering  design  reviews,  construction
supervision,  and  technical  assistance for implementation  of the Project, including
the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  Resettlement  Plans  and  the  Grievance
Redress  System.

Improving  institutional  coordination  for  operation  and  maintenance  of Jakarta's
flood  management  system,  as  well  as  establishing  a  Flood  Management
Information  System.

Implementation  of Resettlement  Plans.

Establishment  and operation  of the Grievance  Redress  System.

Establishment and  operation of the Panel  of Experts.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Financing Arrangements.

A. 

I1. 

2. 

Loan  Proceeds  to  be  allocated  to  Ministry  of  Public  Works.  The  Borrower
shall  allocate  on  a  timely  basis  in  accordance  with  the  Borrower's  budget
process  the  portion  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  in
Categories  1(a),  1(b)  and  (2)  in  the  table  in paragraph  2  of Section  IV.A  of this
Schedule  2  required  for the  MPW  Parts  of the  Project  to  the  Ministry  of Public
Works.

Loan  Proceeds  to  be  on-lent  to  DKI.  To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  the
Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  in  Category  1(c)  in  the  table  in  paragraph  2  of
Section  IV.A  of  this  Schedule  2 
required  for  the  DKI  Parts  of  the  Project
available  in Rupiah  to DKI, as the Project Implementing  Entity  for the  DKI Parts
of the  Project,  under  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  between  the  Borrower  and
DKI,  under  terms  and  conditions  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,
which  shall include  the  obligation of DKI to:

(a) 

(i)  pay  the  Borrower a  front-end  fee  in  an amount  equal  to  the portion  of
the Front-end  Fee  specified  in  Section  2.03  of this  Agreement  applied  to
the  on-lent  amount;  (ii)  repay  the  Borrower  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
over  a  period  consistent  with  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement;  and
(iii) pay  the  Borrower  interest  on  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  a
variable  rate  per  annum  equal  to  the  rate  payable  by  the  Borrower
pursuant  to  Section  2.04  of this  Agreement,  subject  to  any  request  that
the  Borrower  may  make  pursuant  to  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement,
plus a  maximum  of 5.02%,  except  as  may be  otherwise  agreed  in writing
between  the  Borrower and  the Bank; and

(b) 

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  all  of  the
provisions  of this  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement  applicable  to
DKI as the Project Implementing  Entity for the DKI Parts of the Project.

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in
such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree
in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

4. 

Counterpart Funds.

(a) 

(b) 

With  respect  to  Part  1  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  allocate
counterpart  funds  for the MPW  Parts  of the Project, and  shall  ensure  that
DKI  shall  allocate  counterpart  funds for  the  DKI  Parts of the  Project,  in
accordance  with 
the  Borrower's  budget  process  and  DKI's  budget
process  respectively,  in  each  case  on  a  timely basis  and  in  such  amount
as  is  necessary  to  ensure  the  completion  of  the  Project  in  a  manner
satisfactory  to the  Borrower  and the Bank.

With  respect  to  Part  2  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that:
(i)  Part  2(b)  is  financed  by  the  Co-Financing  Agreement,  or in  the  event
that  such  agreement  shall  terminate  or be  insufficient  for the purposes  of
Part 2(b)  of the  Project, by  another  source  of financing  identified  by  the
Borrower  and  agreed 
in  writing  by  the  Bank,  which  may  include
Borrower  counterpart  funds;  and  (ii)  Part  2(c)  is  financed  exclusively
from Borrower  counterpart  funds and  not from the proceeds  of the Loan.

Institutional Arrangements.

B. 

1 .

National  Steering  Committee  for  Water  Resources.  The  Borrower  shall
maintain,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the  National  Steering  Committee  for
Water  Resources,  a  high  level  advisory  committee  led  by  BAPPENAS. 
The
Borrower  shall  ensure that  the National  Steering  Committee  for Water Resources
shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,  include  representatives  of BAPPENAS,
Ministry  of Finance,  Ministry  of Public  Works,  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  and
DKI.

2. 

Central  Project  Management  Unit  and  Central  Project  Implementation
Unit.

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  establish  and  maintain,  until  completion  of  the
Project,  the Central  Project  Management  Unit  in DGWR.

(i) 

shall 

The  Central  Project  Management  Unit 
comprise
representatives  of  DGWR,  DGHS,  Ministry  of  Public  Works
Office  of  Planning  and  International  Cooperation,  DKI  and
BAPPENAS  and  shall be  supported by  a secretariat  comprised  of
staff  of  DGWR,  all  with  mandate,  composition,  staff  positions
and  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower.
The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Central  Project  Management
Unit  is  provided  in  a  timely  manner  with  resources  adequate  to
accomplish  its objectives

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

-9-

The  Central  Project  Management  Unit  shall  oversee  and
coordinate  the  overall  Project  implementation  reporting  and
planning  functions, 
including  the  review  and  integration  of
Project reports  and Annual Work Programs,  including budgets.

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  establish  and  maintain,  until  completion  of  the
Project, the Central  Project Implementation  Unit in DGWR.

The  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  comprise  at  least
one  (1) staff member  from  each  of DGWR, DGHS  and  DKI, and
shall  be  supported  by  a  secretariat  comprised  of staff of DGWR,
all  with  mandate,  composition,  staff  positions  and  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower.  The
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Central  Project  Implementation
Unit  is  provided  in  a  timely  manner  with  resources  adequate  to
accomplish its  objectives.

The  Central  Project Implementation  Unit  shall be responsible  for
overall  coordination  and  management  of the  Project,  including:
(i) coordinating  implementation  activities of the three  (3)  Project
Implementation  Units;  (ii)  management  of  the  Supervision
Consultant  contract  and 
the 
and
procurement 
contracts; 
implementation,
monitoring 
of 
the  Flood  Management
Information  System;  and  (iv)  establishment  of  and  support  for
the Grievance  Redress  System and  the Panel  of Experts.

financial  management 

evaluation 

consultant 

(iii) 

and 

3. 

Project  Implementation  Units.  The Borrower  shall  maintain,  until completion
of the  Project,  the  Project  Implementation  Units  established  in  each  of DGWR
and  DGHS,  and  shall  ensure  that  DKI  shall  maintain  the Project  Implementation
Unit established  in DKI.

(a) 

(b) 

Each  Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  have  a  mandate,  composition,
staff  positions  and  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  and
shall  be  made  operational  and  provided  in  a  timely  manner  with
resources  adequate  to accomplish  its objectives.

The  Project  Implementation  Unit  of  DGWR  shall  be  in  the  Regional
Office  of  Ciliwung-Cisadane  River  Basin  and  shall  be  responsible  for
implementation  of  the  Project  at  the  DGWR  Project  Sites,  including,
without  limitation:  (i)  employment  and  management  of  the  Works
Contractors  for the  DGWR Project  Sites;  (ii)  dredging  and  rehabilitation
of the selected  floodways,  canals  and retention  basins;

-10-

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

implementation  of  the  Environmental  Safeguards 

(iii) 
Instruments
applicable  to  the  DGWR  Project  Sites;  and  (iv)  compliance  with  the
Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and  any  Resettlement  Plan  applicable  to
the DGWR Project Sites.

The  Project  Implementation  Unit  of DGHS  shall  be  in  the  Directorate  of
Environmental  Sanitation  Development  and  shall  be  responsible  for
implementation  of  the  Project  at  the  DGHS  Project  Sites,  including,
without  limitation:  (i)  employment  and  management  of  the  Works
Contractors  for the  DGHS  Project  Sites;  (ii)  dredging  and  rehabilitation
of  the  selected  floodways  and  canals;  (iii)  implementation  of  the
Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments  applicable  to  the  DGHS  Project
Sites;  and  (iv)  compliance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and
any  Resettlement  Plan applicable  to the  DGHS  Project Sites.

The  Project  Implementation  Unit  of DKI  shall  be  in  the  DPU-DKI  and
shall  be responsible  for  implementation  of the Project  at the  DKI Project
Sites,  including,  without  limitation:  (i) employment  and  management  of
the  Works  Contractors  for  the  DKI  Project  Sites;  (ii)  dredging  and
rehabilitation  of the  selected  floodways  and  canals;  (iii)  implementation
of  the  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments  applicable  to  the  DKI
Project  Sites;  and 
(iv)  compliance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  and  any  Resettlement  Plan  applicable  to  the  DKI  Project
Sites.

The  Project  Implementation  Unit  of  DKI  shall  also  be  responsible  for
land  acquisition  and  resettlement in DKI, and  shall  also establish,  prior  to
the  finalization  and  submission  to  the  Bank  of  the  first  Resettlement
Plan,  and  thereafter  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project, 
the
Environmental  and  Social  Working  Group  and  the  Land  Acquisition
Committee, each established  with a mandate,  composition,  staff positions
and  terms of reference  acceptable  to the  Bank and  the Borrower,  through
the  Central  Project Implementation  Unit,  and  each  made  operational  and
provided  in  a  timely  manner  with  resources  adequate  to  accomplish  its
objectives.

(g) 

Each  Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  take  all  action  on  its  part  to
ensure  cooperation  with 
the  other  Project  Implementation  Units
necessary  to  accomplish  the objective  of the Project.

4. 

Procurement  Committees. 
Implementation  Unit, shall  ensure that:

The  Borrower, 

through 

the  Central  Project

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

- 11  -

each  Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  establish,  by  no  later  than  the
date  on  which  the  first  procurement  activity  commences  for  the  first
Project  Site  for  which  it  is  responsible  in  accordance  with  column  4  in
the  table  in  Section  1 of the  Annex  1 to  this  Schedule  2,  and  thereafter
maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  a  procurement  committee
responsible  for overseeing  all procurement  at such Project  Sites; and

each  such  committee  shall:  (i)  be  established  with  a  mandate,  qualified
procurement  staff  from  the  relevant  Project  Implementation  Unit  and
terms  of reference  acceptable  to the Borrower,  acting  through  the Central
Project  Implementation  Unit,  and  the Bank;  (ii)  be  made  operational  and
provided  in  a  timely  manner  with  resources  adequate  to  accomplish  its
objectives  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operations  Manual;  and
(iii)  implement  a  code  of  conduct  acceptable  to  the  Borrower,  acting
through  the Central Project Implementation  Unit, and  the Bank.

5. 

Project  Site  Offices  (POSKO).  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central
Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall  ensure  that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with
respect  to  the  MPW  Parts  of  the  Project,  and  DKI with  respect  to  the  DKI  Parts
of the Project to ensure  that, its respective  Project Implementation  Unit shall:

establish  at  each Project Site,  as  part of the  implementation  of the  Works
Contract  for  each  such  Project  Site  and  prior  to  the  commencement  of
any  dredging  or  rehabilitation  activities  at  such  Project  Site,  a  POSKO
to,  among  other  things,  act as  a public  information  center  and  site-based
complaint  handling  unit  in  accordance  with  the  Grievance  Redress
System;  and

ensure  that  each POSKO:  (i)  is at  all  times  adequately  staffed,  including
with  representatives  of  the  Project  Implementation  Unit  and  the  Works
Contractor  responsible  for the Project  Site;  (ii)  is made operational  and  at
all times  operates  in  accordance  with  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the
Bank  and 
acting 
the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit;  and  (iii)  is  provided  in  a  timely  manner  with
resources  adequate  to  accomplish  its  objectives.

the  Borrower, 

through 

6. 

Institutional  Arrangements  for Disposal  Sites.

(a) 

Arrangements  with  the  operator  of  the  Ancol  CDF.  The  Borrower
shall ensure  that DKI  shall exercise  its rights  as  a shareholder  of PJA  and
as  set out  in  the  Cooperation  Agreement  to  accomplish  the  objective  of
the  Project, including  to:

- 12  -

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

ensure  that  the  Ancol  CDF  is  available  and  maintained  at  all
times  during  Project 
implementation 
receive  Dredged
Materials  in  accordance  with  or as referred  to  in this Agreement,
the Project Agreement  and the Cooperation  Agreement;

to 

grant  the  right  to  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  the
Project  Implementation  Units  or  their  representatives  (including
Works  Contractors 
the
Supervision  Consultant  and  the  Bank  to  enter  PJA  property  to
access  the  Ancol  CDF  and  to  enter  the  Ancol  CDF  for  the
purposes  of the  Project;

transporting  Dredged  Materials), 

through 

the  Borrower,  acting 

permit 
the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit,  the  Project  Implementation  Units,  the
Supervision  Consultant  and  the  Bank  to  monitor  and  supervise
the  deposit  of  Dredged  Materials  at  the  Ancol  CDF,  including
cooperatively 
the  Jakarta  Provincial
Environmental  Management  Agency;  and

through 

jointly 

and 

ensure  that  DKI  shall,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  either:
(A)  remain  a  controlling  shareholder  of PJA;  or (B)  in  the  event
that  DKI  proposes  to  no  longer  be  a  controlling  shareholder  of
PJA,  put in  place  written  institutional  arrangements  satisfactory
to  the Borrower  and the  Bank to  ensure that  DKI  shall  be  able  to
cause  PJA  to  carry  out  the  operation  and  maintenance  of  the
Ancol  CDF  and  to  permit  the  entry,  monitoring  and  supervision
by 
the  Project
Implementation  Units,  the  Bank  and  the  Supervision  Consultant
at  the  Ancol  CDF 
in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  this
Agreement  and the  Project Agreement.

the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit, 

(b) 

Arrangements  with  the  operator  of  the  Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site.
The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  DKI,  as  the  entity  responsible  for  the
Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site,  shall  manage  the  Solid Waste  Disposal  Site,
including  causing  action 
taken  under  any  operations  and
maintenance  contracts in  effect from time  to time,  as required  in order to:

to  be 

(i) 

ensure  that  the Solid  Waste  Disposal Site is  available  at  all times
during  Project  implementation  to  receive  Solid  Waste  Materials
in  accordance  with  or  as  referred  to  in  this  Agreement  and  the
Project Agreement;

- 13  -

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

ensure  that  the  Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site  is  at all  times  operated
in  accordance  with  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  Borrower,
including the  license  therefor;

grant  the  right  to  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  the
Project  Implementation  Units  or  their  representatives  (including
Works  Contractors  transporting  Solid  Waste  Materials), 
the
Supervision  Consultant  and  the  Bank  to  enter  the  Solid  Waste
Disposal Site  property  for the purposes  of the Project;

through 

the  Borrower,  acting 

permit 
the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit,  the  Supervision  Consultant  and  the  Bank
to monitor  and  supervise  the deposit  of Solid  Waste  Materials  at
the  Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site,  including  cooperatively  and
jointly 
through 
Provincial  Environmental
Management  Agency;  and

Jakarta 

the 

ensure  that  DKI  shall,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  either:
(A)  remain  the entity  in  control  of the Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site;
or  (B)  in  the  event that  DKI proposes  to  no longer be  in  control
of  the  Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site,  put 
in  place  written
institutional  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank  to  ensure  that  Solid  Waste  Materials  shall  continue  to  be
deposited  at  the  Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site  and  to  permit  the
entry,  monitoring  and  supervision  by 
the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit,  the  Bank  and  the  Supervision  Consultant
at  the  Solid Waste  Disposal  Site  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of
this Agreement  and the Project  Agreement.

(c) 

Arrangements  with  the operator of  the Hazardous  Material Disposal
Site.

(i) 

(ii) 

The  Borrower  shall,  prior  to  the  signing  of  the  first  Works
Contract,  enter into  a  written  arrangement  or  understanding  with
the  Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site  Operator  setting  out  the
principle  that  such  site  will  be  available  to  receive  Hazardous
Material,  if any, found  in relation  to the Project.

In  the  event  that  any  Hazardous  Material  is found  at any  Project
Site  or with respect  to  any  Dredged  Materials  or Solid  Waste,  the
Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation
Unit,  shall  ensure  that  DGWR  and  DGHS  with  respect  to  the
MPW  Parts  of  the  Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect  to  the  DKI
Parts  of the Project,  shall:

- 14  -

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

forthwith  comply  with  the  terms  of  this  Agreement,
including 
the  provisions  of  Section  I.D, 
including
paragraph  8 of  Section  I.D  of  this  Schedule  2,  and  the
provisions  of  Section  I.C,  including  paragraph  3  of
Section  I.C  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,
and  applicable  laws  and regulations of the  Borrower;

subject  to  compliance  with  the  foregoing,  enter  into
contractual  arrangements,  on 
terms  and  conditions
acceptable 
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  with  the
Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site  Operator 
in
accordance  with  paragraph  8(f)  of  Section  LD  of  this
Schedule  2; and

permit  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  the
Project 
Supervision
Consultant  and  the  Bank  to  inspect,  from  time  to  time,
the  Hazardous Material  Disposal  Site.

Implementation  Units, 

the 

C. 

1. 

(a) 

(iii)  Without  limiting  the  foregoing, 

the  Borrower, 

the
Central  Project  Implementation  Unit  and/or  the  relevant  Project
Implementation  Unit, may  enter into  contractual  arrangements  to
deposit  Dredged  Materials  other  than  Hazardous  Material  at  the
Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site, provided  that such  contractual
arrangements  are acceptable  to the Borrower  and the Bank.

through 

Implementation  Arrangements.

Project Operations  Manual.  The Borrower,  acting  through  the Central  Project
Management  Unit  shall  ensure  that  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit  and
each PIU  shall:

to 

the  Bank  and 

adopt and  thereafter  implement  the Project  in accordance  with  the Project
Operations  Manual, 
including  all  annexes  and  supplements  thereto,
acceptable 
the  Borrower,  giving  details  of:
(i)  implementation  arrangements  set out  in  Section  I  of this  Schedule  2,
including  arrangements  for  procurement  of  the  Supervision  Consultant
and  each  Works  Contractor;  (ii)  the  requirements  for  the  phasing  of the
Project 
in  Phase  1  Project  Sites  and  Phase  2  Project  Sites;
(iii)  procurement  procedures  as  set  forth  in  Section  III of  this  Schedule  2
and  standard  procurement  documentation;  (iii)  reporting  requirements,
financial  management  procedures  and  audit  procedures  as  set  forth  in
Section  II.B  of  this  Schedule  2  and  the  related  financial  management
action  plan; 
(iv)  project  performance  indicators;  (v)  the  Environmental

- 15  -

Safeguards  Instruments;  (vi)  the  Social  Safeguards  Instruments;  (vii)  the
Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards 
(viii)  maintenance
provisions  for works  to  be  carried  out  at  each  Project  Site;  (ix)  the  role
and  operations  of  Panel  of  Experts; 
the  Governance  and
Accountability  Framework;  and  (xi) 
the  operation  of  the  Grievance
Redress  System;

Instruments; 

(x) 

not  take  any  action  to  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any
provisions  of the  Project  Operations  Manual  without  the  prior  written
agreement of the  Bank and the Borrower;

thereto,  and  each  of 

ensure  that  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  including  all  annexes  and
supplements 
the  Environmental  Safeguards
Instruments  and  Social  Safeguards  Instruments  is  made  available,  at  all
times  until  completion  of the Project,  to:  (i)  the  Supervision  Consultant;
(ii)  each  Works  Contractor;  (iii)  each  POSKO;  and  (iv)  upon  request,  all
Project  Affected  Persons  (with  respect  to  Resettlement  Plans,  the
obligation  in  this sub-paragraph  (c)  is  to make  available the  Resettlement
Plan  for any  Project  Site  to  such Works  Contractor,  the POSKO  and  the
Project Affected  Person  related  to such  Project Site);

with 
the  prior  written  agreement  of  the  Bank,  update  the  Project
Operations  Manual,  including  all  annexes  and  supplements  thereto,  as
necessary,  at all  times  ensuring  compliance  thereof with  the  terms of this
Agreement;  and

in  the  event  of  any  conflict  between 
the  provisions  of  the  Project
Operations  Manual,  including  any  annexes  and  supplements  thereto,  and
the provisions  of this Agreement,  the latter  shall prevail.

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

2. 

Project  Phases  and  Annual  Work  Programs.  The  Borrower,  acting  through
the Central  Project Management  Unit  shall  ensure  that:

the  Project  shall  be  implemented  following  the  sequenced  Project
implementation  design  in  which  Packages  of  Works  Contracts,  related
implementation  activities  and  related  technical  assistance  activities  are
planned  for  implementation  in  two  sequenced  batches  (Phase  1  and
Phase  2)  by  the  responsible  Project  Implementation  Units,  in  accordance
with the  Project Operations  Manual  and  the  terms  of this  Agreement  and
the Project Agreement;

(b) 

in  each  year  of  Project  implementation,  each  Project  Implementation
Unit  shall,  through the Central  Project  Implementation  Unit:

-16-

3. 

Supervision  Consultant.

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(i) 

(ii) 

prepare  and  submit  to  the  Central  Project  Management  Unit  and
the  Bank  for  concurrence  by  no  later  than  December  31  of  the
preceding  year,  an  Annual  Work  Program  (based  on  a  calendar
year),  with  budget, for the activities under  Part  1 of the Project at
its respective  Project Sites;  and

through  the  Central  Project  Management  Unit,  deliver  the  first
such  Annual  Work  Program  to  the  Bank  by  no  later  than
December  31,  2012; and

each  Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  implement  in  a  timely  manner
each such  Annual Work Program.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Central  Project Implementation  Unit
shall  appoint  a  Supervision  Consultant,  with  qualifications,  experience
and  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower,  acting  through  the
Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  and  to  the  Bank  prior  to  the  first
Works  Contract  being  signed  by  any  Project  Implementation  Unit. The
appointment  of the  Supervision  Consultant  shall  be  subject  to  receipt  by
the Borrower  of a  written  no-objection  by the  Bank.  The Central  Project
Implementation  Unit  shall retain  the  services  of a  Supervision  Consultant
until completion  of the  Project.

(ii) 

the 

supervising 

implementation, 

including,  but  not  limited 

The  Supervision  Consultant  shall  be  responsible  for  supervising  all
aspects  of  Project 
to:
(i)  supervising,  monitoring  and  evaluating  the  implementation  of  the
Works  Contracts; 
the
Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Plan  for each Project
Site by  the relevant Project Implementation  Unit  and Works  Contractors;
(iii)  supporting  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit  and  DKI  in  the
implementation  of Resettlement  Plans;  (iv)  developing and  implementing
the  Grievance  Redress  System;  (v)  coordinating  the  Bank's  review,
together  with 
the  Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental  Management
Agency,  of the  operation of the  Ancol  CDF and  the Offsite  Sources;  and
(iv) supporting  financial  management  and procurement  activities.

implementation 

of 

(c) 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,
shall  ensure  that:  (i)  each  Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  cooperate
with  the  Supervision  Consultant;  and  (ii)  each  Project  Implementation
Unit  shall ensure  that  each Works Contract  includes  the obligation  of the
Works  Contractor  to cooperate  with  the  Supervision  Consultant.

- 17  -

4. 

Completion,  Maintenance  and Development  of Ancol  CDF.

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,
shall  ensure  that  each  PIU  shall  ensure  that  before each  Works  Contract
is  signed  for  each  Project  Site:  (i)  construction  of the  Ancol  CDF  has
been  completed  and  is  being  maintained  in  a  manner  fully  consistent
with  the  Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments;  (ii)  the  Ancol
CDF is  completely  and  properly  confined  on all  sides  and  intact;  (iii) the
Bank has  received  evidence  satisfactory  to  it  that  the  Jakarta  Provincial
Environmental  Management  Agency  has  determined  that  PJA  is  in
compliance  with  the  Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments;  and
(iv)  each  of  the  Bank  and  the  Supervision  Consultant  has  had  an
opportunity  to visit, review  and test the  site and design  of the  Ancol CDF
and  found  it satisfactory.

including  non-compliance  with 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  DKI  to  exercise  its  rights  as  a  shareholder  of
PJA and  under  the Cooperation  Agreement  to  monitor the  operation  and
maintenance  of  the  Ancol  CDF  and  to  inform  the  Bank  and  the
Supervision  Consultant immediately  of any  occurrence  that  would  render
or would  be likely to render  the Ancol CDF  unfit for disposal  of Dredged
Materials, 
the  Ancol
Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments  and/or  applicable  Indonesian
environmental  laws or regulations.  Upon  written notice  from the Bank  to
the  Borrower,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  some  or  all  Project  activities  to
cease  until  there  has  been  satisfactory  resolution  of such  occurrence  or
occurrences  and  the Bank has provided  its written no-objection  to resume
relevant activities  to  the  Borrower,  which no-objection  may  be provided,
when  applicable,  only  following  delivery  by  the  Jakarta  Provincial
Environmental  Management  Agency 
suitable 
instruments
contemplated  by applicable  Indonesian  laws  and regulations.

any  of 

of 

(c) 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,
shall  ensure  that,  and  shall  cause  DKI  to  exercise 
its  rights  as  a
shareholder  of.PJA and  under the  Cooperation  Agreement  to  ensure  that,
following  deposit  of  all  Dredged  Materials  and  all  Sand  and  Laterite  in
the Ancol  CDF:

(i) 

(ii) 

DKI  shall  obtain  from  PJA  and  shall  provide  to  the  Borrower
and  to  the  Bank  a copy  of a  written  confirmation  from  PJA  that
filling  of the Ancol  CDF has  been  completed  in  accordance  with
the  Ancol Environmental  Safeguards  Documents;  and

the  Borrower  and  DKI  shall  ensure  that  all  development  on  and
use  of  the  site  of 
industrial,

the  Ancol  CDF,  whether 

- 18 -

commercial,  residential  or  recreational  or  otherwise,  shall  be  in
accordance  with  a  duly  approved  AMDAL  and  all  other
applicable  legal and regulatory  requirements  of the  Borrower and
include,  as  necessary, 
land  use 
restrictions  and  specific
guidelines  and  covenants  to  protect  the  integrity  of  the  site,
provide  proper  foundations  for  buildings,  guide  installation  of
underground  utilities,  and  to  limit exposure  of residents  and  site
users  to  any  adverse  effects  that  may  arise  as  a  consequence  of
the use of the  Dredged Material.

5. 

Works  Contracts. 
Implementation  Unit,  shall ensure that each  PIU  shall:

The  Borrower,  acting 

through 

the  Central  Project

(a) 

(b) 

prior  to  entering  into  each  Works  Contract  for  each  of  its  respective
Project  Sites,  ensure  that:  (i)  the  Bank  and  the  Supervision  Consultant
has  each  had  the  opportunity  to  undertake  the  review  set  out  in  sub-
paragraphs  (ii)  and  (iii) of paragraph  4(a)  of this Section  I.C;  and  (ii)  the
relevant  Project Implementation  Unit has  received  a written  no-objection
from  the Bank with  respect  to the proposed  Works Contract;  and

ensure  that  each  Works  Contract  shall:  (i)  be  on  terms  and  conditions
acceptable  to  the  Borrower  (or to  DKI  with  respect  to  the  DKI  Project
Sites)  and  the Bank;  (ii)  contain  the  obligation  of  the  Works  Contractor
to  comply with  the Project Operations  Manual  and  the environmental  and
social  safeguards  and  mitigation  measures  set  out  in  Section  I.D,
including  paragraphs  5, 6  and  16  of  Section  I.D  of  this  Schedule  2;
(iii)  contain  the  obligation that  such  provisions  shall  be applicable  to any
sub-contractor,  and  (iv)  contain 
that  each  Works
Contractor  and  any  sub-contractor,  shall  at  all  times  have  sufficient
environmental  and  social  safeguards  staff  and  capacity  and  resources  to
fulfill the requirements  of Section I.D  of this  Schedule  2.

the  obligation 

6. 

Testing  and  Dredging of Materials.  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central
Project  Implementation  Unit, shall  ensure  that  each PIU  shall  ensure  that,  prior
to  the commencement  of any  dredging  or rehabilitation  or related  activities  at  any
Project  Site  that is  its  respective  responsibility,  the  applicable  Works  Contractor,
under  the  supervision of the  Supervision  Consultant,  shall  carry  out testing,  using
mapped  and  identified  Sections  as required  by  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  to
determine  the  quality  of materials  to  be  dredged  and  to  identify  any  Hazardous
Materials  in  each  such  section.  Any  identified  Hazardous  Materials  shall  be
handled  solely in  accordance  with  paragraph  6(c)  of Section  I.B of this Schedule
2,  paragraph  9 of this  Section  I.C  and  the  provisions  of Section  I.D,  including
paragraphs  8-9  of Section  I.D  of this  Schedule  2.

- 19  -

7. 

8. 

9. 

Deposit  of  Dredged  Materials.  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central
Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall  ensure  that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with
respect  to  the  MPW Parts  of the  Project,  and  DKI, with  respect  to  the  DKI Parts
of  the  Project,  shall  ensure  that  all  Dredged  Materials  from  each  Project
Implementation  Unit's respective Project  Sites are deposited  in  the Ancol  CDF in
accordance  with:  (a)  this  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement,  including,
without  limitation,  paragraph  6(a)  of Section I.B,  paragraph  4  of this  Section  IC
and  the provisions  of Section  I.D,  including  paragraphs  10-12  of Section  I.D  of
this  Schedule  2,  and  paragraph  4(a)  of Section  I.A,  paragraphs  3 and 6  of Section
I.B  and  the provisions  of Section  I.C,  including  paragraph  4-5  of the  Section  I.C
of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement;  (B)  the  Ancol  Environmental
Safeguards  Instruments;  and  (C)  all  applicable  Indonesian  environmental  laws
and  regulations.

Disposal  of  Solid  Waste.  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit,  shall  ensure  that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect
to the  MPW Parts  of the  Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect to  the  DKI Parts  of the
Project,  shall  ensure  that  all  Solid  Waste  is  deposited  only  in  the  Solid  Waste
Disposal  Site  in accordance  with  the provisions  of paragraph  6(b)  of Section  I  B
and  Section  I.D  of this  Schedule  2,  and  paragraph 4(b)  of Section  I.A,  paragraph
7  of Section  I.B  and  the provisions  of Section I.C  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

Disposal  of  Hazardous  Material  (if any).  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the
Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall  ensure  that  each  of  DGWR  and
DGHS,  with  respect to  the MPW  Parts  of the Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect to
the  DKI  Parts  of  the  Project,  shall  ensure  that  each  of  its  respective  Project
Implementation  Units  shall  cause  any  and  all  Hazardous  Material,  whether
identified  through  testing  in  accordance  with  paragraph  7  of this  Section  I.C  or
paragraph  8  of  Section  I.B  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement  or
otherwise,  to  be  deposited  only  in  the  Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  I.D,  including  paragraph  8  of Section
I.D  of this  Schedule  2  and  the provisions  of Section  I.C,  including  paragraph  3
of Section I.C of the  Schedule  to the Project Agreement.

10. 

Flood  Management  Information System.  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the
Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall  ensure  that,  as 
is
implemented,  the  works, changes,  and upgrades  to the  flood  management  system
resulting  from the Project  shall  be input  into  the Flood  Management  Information
System.

the  Project 

- 20 -

11. 

Project Information Dissemination  and Community  Relations.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit
shall  maintain  the  Project  Website  for  public  communications  and
information  dissemination  purposes,  including,  without  limitation,  the
publication  of 
the  Project  Operations  Manual,  procurement  and
contracting  activities  for  all  Project  Sites,  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework, 
Impact
Assessments,  Management  Plans 
the
Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Framework,  the
Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Plans,  the  Traffic
Management  Plans,  and  materials  explaining  the  Grievance  Redress
System, including in  accordance  with paragraph  12  of this Section  I.C.

the  Environmental 
and  Monitoring  Plans, 

the  Resettlement  Plans, 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  DKI  to  include  on  the  DKI  Website,  or
through  a  link  to  the  Project  Website,  the  Project  Operations  Manual,
procurement  and  contracting  activities,  the  Environmental  and  Social
Safeguards  Management  Framework, 
Policy
Framework, 
all  Resettlement  Plans, 
Impact
Assessments,  Management  Plans  and  Monitoring  Plans for the  DKI Parts
of  the  Project,  the  Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management
Plans  for the  DKI Parts  of the Project,  the  Traffic  Management Plans  for
the  DKI  Parts  of  the  Project,  and  materials  explaining  the  Grievance
Redress  System,  including  in  accordance  with  paragraph  12  of  this
Section  I.C  and  paragraph  11  of  Section  I.B  of  the  Schedule  to  the
Project Agreement.

the  Resettlement 
the  Environmental 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,
shall  ensure  that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect  to  the  MPW
Parts  of  the  Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect  to  the  DKI  Parts  of  the
Project, shall ensure  that  each POSKO  at its respective  Project Sites  shall
make  available  at  no  cost  to  the  public  the  following: 
the  Project
Operations  Manual, 
the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework; 
the
Environmental 
and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Framework,
procurement  and  contracting  activity  information  related  to  the  Project
Site,  the  Resettlement  Plans,  if  any,  related  to  the  Project  Site,  the
Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and  Monitoring
Plan  related  to the Project  Site,  the Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards
Management  Plans  related  to  the  Project  Site,  the  Traffic  Management
Plans  related to  the  Project  Site,  and  materials  explaining  the  Grievance
Redress  System,  including  in  accordance  with  paragraph  12  of  this
Section  I.C.

-21 

-

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,
shall  ensure  that  each  of  DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect  to  the  MPW
Parts  of  the  Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect  to  the  DKI  Parts  of  the
Project,  shall  ensure  that  each  of  its  respective  Project  Sites  is  clearly
marked  with  signs as  a Project  Site in  order to facilitate the dissemination
of  information  about 
the  Project  and  reduce 
the  opportunities  for
confusion  among  community  members  as  to  which  activities  undertaken
by  DKI,  DGWR,  DGHS  or  any  other  entity  of the  Borrower  in  Jakarta
are Project  activities  and  which activities  are  not Project  activities.

12. 

Grievance  Redress  System.  The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project
Implementation Unit,  shall, and  shall cause  DKI to:

provide  at  all  times  until  completion  of  the  Project  on  the  Project
Website  and  the  DKI  Website  and  at  each  POSKO  and  at  each  Linked
Site, information  about DKI's existing  complaints  handling systems;

establish  by  no later  than  ninety  (90)  days  after  the Effective  Date  and  in
any  event  prior  to  the  commencement  of the  first  Works  Contract  and
thereafter  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the  independent
Project  Grievance  Redress  System,  acceptable  to  the  Borrower,  acting
through  the Central  Project  Implementation  Unit, and  the Bank, that  (i)  is
designed  to  track  complaints  regarding 
the  Project,  including  with
respect  to  any  Linked  Sites;  guide  resolution  of  such  complaints;  and
track and publicize  resolution  of such  complaints;  and (ii)  has  a  timetable
and  budget,  including adequate  and timely provision  of counterpart  funds
required  for  the  Project;

ensure  that  any  complaints  made  through  DKI's  existing  complaints
handling  systems  are  transferred  to,  reported  as  part  of,  and  may  be
brought  at any  time to  the Grievance  Redress System;

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  all  resources  necessary  for  the  Grievance
Redress  System  to  operate  as  required  by  this  Agreement,  the  Project
Agreement,  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework;

publicize  the Grievance  Redress  System on the Project  Website,  the DKI
Website,  at  each  POSKO  and  at  community  meetings  at  each  Project
Site;

ensure  that  each  POSKO,  at  all  times  after  the  establishment  of  the
Grievance  Redress  System until  completion  of the  Project,  includes  staff
in  adequate  numbers  and  with  composition  and  terms  of  reference  and

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

- 22  -

13. 

sufficient  resources  assigned  specifically 
Redress  System;

to  operate 

the  Grievance

(g) 

(h) 

include  in  each  Project  Report,  a  report  on  Grievance  Redress  System
cases,  resolutions,  challenges,  staffing  and  budget  and  other  resources
required;  and

publicize  all  cases  brought  to  the  Grievance  Redress  System  on  the
Project  Website,  the  DKI  Website  and  at  each  POSKO  (with respect  to
cases  related  to the  Project Site  where  such POSKO  is  located).

the  Bank  and 

including  any  land  acquisition  or  resettlement,  that  it  plans 

Exchange  of  Information  with  Regard  to  Dredging  and  Embankment
Rehabilitation  Activities  outside  of  Project  Sites  or  Linked  Sites.  The
Borrower  shall  cause  each  of the  Ministry  of Public  Works  and  DKI  to  inform
the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit, 
the  Supervision
Consultant  about  all  dredging  and/or  embankment  rehabilitation  or  related
activities, 
to
undertake  in  any  areas  adjacent to  or contiguous  with any  Project  Sites and  on or
adjacent  to  or contiguous  with  any  Linked  Sites:  (a)  on  an  annual  planning  basis
by  providing  a  written  list  of  all  such  planned  activities  in  the  upcoming  twelve
(12)  months  by  no  later  than  October  31  of the  year  preceding  such  planned
activities;  and  (b) by providing  written  notification  of each  such  activity  no  less
than  fourteen  (14)  days  prior  to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Works  or  DKI,  as
applicable,  commencing  such  activities.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  of the
Ministry  of Public  Works  and  DKI  to  ensure  that  each  such  activity  is  clearly
distinguished  from  any  Project  Sites  in  signage  and  Ministry  of Public  Works  or
DKI  communication,  and  shall provide  the  Bank and  the  Supervision  Consultant
with  an  opportunity  to  visit  the  site  of  each  such  activity  and  with  such
information  with  respect  to  such  activities  as  the  Bank  may  from  time  to  time
request.

14. 

Panel  of  Experts.  The  Borrower,  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation
Unit, shall:

(a) 

establish,  prior  to  the  commencement  of  any  activities  under  the  first
Works  Contract,  and  thereafter  maintain  until  completion  of the  Project,
the Panel  of Experts  to advise  on  all  aspects of the  Project, including, but
not  limited  to  the  environmental  and  social  safeguards  requirements  set
out  in  Section  I.D  of this  Schedule  2,  comprising  at  least  three  experts,
including  an  environmental  expert,  an  engineer  experienced  in  dredging
and  dredge  disposal  and  an  urban  resettlement  expert,  in  each  case  with
expertise  and under  terms  of reference  acceptable  to the  Bank;

- 23  -

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

if required by  the  Borrower  and/or the  Bank, enlarge  the Panel  of Experts
on  a  temporary  or  permanent  basis  by  the  addition  of  specialists  to
provide  expertise  for  specific,  unplanned  or  critical  issues  or  needs,
which  may  arise  during  Project  implementation,  in  each  case  with  terms
of reference  agreed  in writing  among  the  Central  Project Implementation
Unit,  the  Bank,  and  the  three  initial  experts  that  comprise  of  Panel  of
Experts;

ensure 
that  the  Panel  of  Experts  shall  convene  at  regular  intervals
acceptable  to  the  Central  Project Implementation  Unit,  the  Bank and  the
experts  on the  Panel  of Experts  to  review  the  status  of work  in progress;
and  shall  convene  special  extraordinary  meetings  as  necessary  to  review
particular critical  stages  of technical,  environmental,  and  social  activities
of Project  implementation;

ensure  that  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  each  Project
Implementation  Unit, 
the  Supervision
Consultant  and  all  other  consultants  shall  cooperate  with  all  requests  of
the Panel of Experts;  and

each  Works  Contractor, 

provide  financial  and  administrative  support  and  cooperation  necessary
for the  Panel  of Experts  to  carry  out  its  functions  in  accordance  with  its
terms  of reference.

D. 

Safeguards

General  Provisions

1. 

(a) 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,
shall  ensure  that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect  to  the  MPW
Parts  of  the  Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect  to  the  DKI  Parts  of  the
Project, shall  ensure  that the  Project is carried  out in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments,  the  Social
Safeguards 
the  Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards
Instruments.

Instruments  and 

(b) 

Except as the Bank, the Borrower  and DKI  (with respect  to the DKI Parts
of  the  Project  only)  shall  otherwise  agree 
in  writing,  none  of  the
Borrower  or  DKI,  nor  any  of  their  respective  agencies  shall  assign,
amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit 
to  be  assigned,  amended,
abrogated, or waived,  the  aforementioned,  or any  provision thereof.

2. 

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  or  inconsistency  between  the  provisions  of  the
Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments,  the  Social  Safeguards  Instruments  or  the

- 24  -

3. 

4. 

Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards 
the  provisions  of  this
Agreement  or  the  Project  Agreement,  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  or  the
Project Agreement,  as  applicable,  shall prevail.

Instruments  and 

The  Borrower,  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall  facilitate
the  work  of the  Panel  of  Experts  referred  to  in  paragraph  14  of Section  LC  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  specifically  with  respect  to  monitoring  and
evaluation  of the  implementation  of the  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments,
the  Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Documents  and  the  Social  Safeguards
Instruments  and  the  Grievance  Redress  System  and  shall  advise  the  Central
Project Implementation  Unit  on actions  to be taken  to improve  compliance.

The Borrower,  acting  through the  Central  Project Management  Unit,  shall ensure
that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect  to  the  MPW  Parts  of the  Project,
and  DKI,  with  respect  to  the  DKI  Parts  of the  Project,  shall  take  all  measures
necessary  on its part regularly  to collect,  compile,  and submit  to the  Bank, as part
of  the  Project  Reports,  information  on  the  status  of  compliance  with  the
Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments,  the  Social  Safeguards  Instruments  and
the Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments,  giving  details of:  (a)  measures
taken  in furtherance  of such  instruments;  (b)  conditions, if any,  which  interfere  or
threaten 
the  smooth  implementation  of  such  plans;  and
(c)  remedial  measures  taken or required  to be taken  to address  such conditions.

to  interfere  with 

Provisions Specific  to the Environmental Safeguards  Instruments

5. 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall
ensure  that  each  of  DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect  to  the  MPW  Parts  of the
Project,  and  DKI,  with respect to  the DKI Parts  of the Project, shall:

(a) 

for each  Phase  I Project  Site:

(i) 

prior to  commencing  any  activities  under any  Works  Contract  or
otherwise  carrying  out any activities in  any Phase  1 Project Site:

(A) 

prepare  with  the  Works  Contractor  and  the  Supervision
Consultant  the  Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards
Management  Plan  and  the  Traffic  Management  Plan  for
such  Phase  1  Project  Site,  as 
the
Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management
Framework;  and

required  by 

(B) 

submit  each  such  plan  to  the  Bank  for  review  and
receive  from the Bank its written  no-objection  thereto;

- 25  -

(ii) 

and 

rehabilitation 

thereafter  undertake  dredging, 
related
activities  in  each  Phase  1  Project  Site  in  accordance  with:  the
Phase  1 Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan
and  Monitoring  Plan,  the  Environmental  Impact  Assessment
Supplementary  Report,  the Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards
Management  Framework, 
and  Social
Safeguards  Management  Plan  for  each  Project  Site  and  the
Traffic  Management  Plan  for  each  Project  Site;  and  implement
all  actions  required  to  be  taken  by  the  Borrower,  the  Central
Project 
Implementation  Unit  or 
respective  Project
Implementation  Unit  with  respect 
foregoing  until
completion  of the  Project  in  a  timely  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  and

the  Environmental 

the 
to 

the 

(b) 

for each  Phase 2 Project Site:

(i) 

prior to  commencing  any  activities  under any  Works Contract  or
otherwise carrying  out any  activities in  any Phase  2 Project Site:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

prepare  and  obtain  the  approval  of the Jakarta Provincial
Environmental  Management  Agency  for  the  Phase  2
Environment  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and
Monitoring  Plan;

prepare  with  the  Works  Contractor  and  the  Supervision
Consultant,  the  Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards
Management  Plan  and  the  Traffic  Management  Plan  for
such  Project  Site,  as  required  by  the  Environmental  and
Social  Safeguards  Management 
and
acceptable  to the Bank;

Framework 

such  Phase  2  Environment 

submit  each 
Impact
Assessment,  Management  Plan  and  Monitoring Plan  and
Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Plan
and  the Traffic  Management  Plan  to  the Bank for review
and  receive  from  the  Bank  its  written  no-objection
thereto;  and

(D) 

make  each  such  plan  publicly  available  on  the  Project
Website,  the  DKI  Website  (for  the  DKI  Parts  of  the
Project) and  at the relevant  POSKO;  and

(ii) 

thereafter  undertake  dredging, 
related
activities  in  each  Phase  2  Project  Site  in  accordance  with:  the

rehabilitation 

and 

- 26  -

the  Environmental 

Phase  2  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan
and  Monitoring  Plan,  the  Environmental  Impact  Assessment
Supplementary  Report,  the Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards
Management  Framework, 
and  Social
Safeguards  Management  Plan  for  such  Project  Site  and  the
Traffic  Management  Plan  for  such  Project  Site;  and  implement
all  actions  required  to  be  taken  by  the  Borrower,  the  Central
Project 
Implementation  Unit  or 
respective  Project
Implementation  Unit  with  respect 
the  foregoing  until
completion  of  the  Project,  in  each  case  in  a  timely  manner
satisfactory  to the Bank.

the 
to 

6. 

7. 

8. 

The  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  shall
ensure  that  each  of  DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect  to  the  MPW  Parts  of  the
Project, and  DKI,  with  respect to  the DKI Parts  of the  Project, shall:  ensure  that
each  Works  Contract  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  include  the  obligation  of  each  respective  Works
Contractor  to  implement,  monitor  and  evaluate  the  application  of  the  Project
Operations  Manual,  the Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Plan,
the  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and  Monitoring  Plan,
the  Environmental 
the  Traffic
Management  Plan  and  the  procedures  for  dealing  with  Hazardous  Material
applicable  to  the Project  Site  that  is the  subject  of such  Works  Contract,  in  each
case  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of such  plans  and  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to
the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation
Unit.

Impact  Assessment  Supplementary  Report, 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  following  are  financed  exclusively  out  of its
own  resources  or .the resources  of DKI  and  not  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,
and  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  all  resources  needed  for  this  purpose: 
the
preparation  of AMDALs  for all Project Sites.

Provisions Specific to Hazardous Materials

In  the  event that  any  Hazardous  Material  is found  at  any  time  to exist at  a Project
Site  or  with  respect  to  any  Dredged  Materials  or  any  Solid  Waste  Materials,
either as  a result of the  testing required  pursuant  to  paragraph  6  of Section  I.C  of
this  Schedule  2  or  otherwise,  the  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit,  shall  ensure  that  each  of DGWR  and  DGHS,  with  respect
to the  MPW  Parts  of the  Project,  and  DKI,  with  respect to  the  DKI Parts  of the
Project, shall:

(a) 

immediately  cease  all  activity  at the  Section  of  such  Project  Site  where
such  Hazardous  Material was  found;

- 27  -

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

immediately  provide  written  notice  to  the  Bank  with  details  of  the
location and  the content of such Hazardous Material;

immediately take  all action necessary  to comply with  applicable  laws  and
regulations  of the Borrower;

immediately  ensure  that  the  Section  shall  be  marked  as  a  hazardous  site
and  the  Hazardous  Material  shall  be  left  in  situ  until  arrangements
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  are  made  for  their  safe
disposal;

ensure  that no  Hazardous Materials  shall be  deposited  in  the  Ancol  CDF
or  at  any  other  site  except  a  Hazardous  Materials  Disposal  Site  in
accordance  with this Section  I.D;

take  all  action required  on its respective  part  to enter  into an  agreement,
on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank and  the Borrower,  with
the  Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site  Operator  for  the  disposal  of  such
Hazardous  Material  by  the  date  which  is no  later  than  the  earlier  of five
(5) days  after  the  Hazardous  Material  is  found  or the  date  which  is  the
deadline  for  arranging  disposal  of Hazardous  Materials  in  effect  at  such
time  under  the  laws  and  regulations  of the  Borrower,  except  as may  be
otherwise agreed  in  writing between the  Borrower  and the Bank;

thereafter,  ensure  that  the  Hazardous  Materials  shall  be  transported  only
to  the  Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site 
the
procedures  set out in  the Project  Operations  Manual,  this  Agreement  and
the  foregoing  agreement  with  the  Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site
Operator;  and

in  accordance  with 

ensure  that  each agreement  referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  (f) shall  include
the  right  of  the  Bank  to  inspect,  from  time  to  time,  the  Hazardous
Material  Site  and  the  obligation  of the Hazardous  Material  Site Operator
to  provide  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  such  information  as  the
Borrower  or  the  Bank  may  from  time  to  time  request  concerning  the
deposit  of  the  Hazardous  Materials  and  the  operation  of  the  Hazardous
Material  Disposal  Site.

9. 

In the event  that  any  Hazardous  Material  is found  to exist  at  the  Ancol  CDF after
deposit  of  Dredged  Materials  or  during  the  later development  of the  Ancol  CDF
by PJA or any other developer, the Borrower shall  ensure, and  shall cause DKI  as
a  shareholder  of  PJA  to  ensure  that  PJA  takes  all  action  necessary  to  comply
with:  (a)  the  terms  of  this  Agreement,  the  Project  Agreement,  the  Operations

- 28  -

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

Manual to  the extent that  they remain  applicable;  and (b)  the laws  and regulations
of the Borrower  with respect to  such Hazardous  Materials.

Provisions Specific  to  the Ancol  CDF

The  Borrower  shall  take  all  actions  necessary  on  its  part  to:  (a)  ensure  that  the
Ancol  CDF  is  designed,  constructed  operated  and  maintained  in  accordance  with
the  Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments;  and  (b)  cause  the  Jakarta
Provincial  Environment  Management  Agency  to  enable  the  Bank  to monitor  the
operations  at  Ancol  CDF  (including  the  environmental  mitigation  activities),
including  cooperatively  and jointly  through  the Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental
Management  Agency.

The  Borrower  shall  take all  action  necessary  on  its part  to  cause  DKI  to  exercise
its rights  as  a  shareholder  of PJA  and  under  the  Cooperation  Agreement  to  cause
PJA  to:  (a)  implement  the  requirements  (including  mitigation  measures)  of the
Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments;  (b)  allow  the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit, the  Supervision  Consultant  and  representatives  of the Bank
to  enter  PJA  property  and  to  have  access  to  the  Ancol  CDF  and  to  monitor  and
supervise  the  operations  at  Ancol  CDF  and  the  Offsite  Sources  (including  the
environmental  mitigation  activities),  including  cooperatively  and jointly  through
the  Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental  Management  Agency;  (c)  provide  such
documentation  and  other information  concerning  the Ancol  CDF  site  as  the Bank
may reasonably  request;  (d)  provide  to  the  Bank  and  the  Supervision  Consultant
a  copy of each of PJA's quarterly  environmental  management  reports  (RKL)  and
environmental  monitoring  reports  (RPL)  on  the  Ancol  CDF  and  such  other
information  as  the  Bank may  reasonably  request,  until  completion  of the  Project
and thereafter  for so long  as the Bank may reasonably  request;  and  (e)  handle any
Hazardous Material  only  in accordance  with paragraphs  8-9  of this Section  I.D.

The  Borrower  shall  take  all  action  necessary  on  its  part  to  cause  DKI to  exercise
its  rights as  shareholder  of PJA and  under the  Cooperation  Agreement  to  ensure
that  only  materials  meeting  the  requirements  of  the  Ancol  Environmental
Safeguards  Instruments  shall be  deposited in  the Ancol CDF.

Provisions  Specific  to Land Acquisition  and Resettlement

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  DKI  remains  the  entity  duly  authorized  and
responsible 
and 
and
rehabilitation  or  other  assistance  in  connection  with  the  Project  on  all  Project
Sites  during  Project implementation.

land  acquisition 

compensation 

resettlement, 

for 

14. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  take  all  actions  necessary  on  its  part  to  coordinate
with  DKI with respect  to the  acquisition  of land  required for the purposes

- 29  -

of the  Project and  to  enable  DKI  to  complete  the  acquisition  of land  and
all  rights  to  use  related  thereto  required  for  the  Project  Implementation
Units  to  carry out the  dredging, rehabilitation  and  related  activities  under
Part  1 of the  Project  and  to  comply  with,  the  provisions  of  this  Section
I.D and  Section  I.C of the  Schedule to  the Project Agreement.

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  take  all  action  necessary  on  its  part  to  ensure  that
DGWR  and  DGHS  cooperate  with  DKI in  the  acquisition  of land  and  to
comply  with  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  this  Section  I.D  and
Section I.C of the  Schedule  to the Project  Agreement.

15. 

The  Borrower shall:  (a)  ensure  that the  following  are financed  exclusively  out of
its  own  resources  or  DKI's  resources  and  not  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan;
(b)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  needed  for  this  purpose:  (i)  all
land  and  land  use  rights  required  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,  whether  at  a
Project  Site  or a  Linked Site;  (ii)  all  resettlement  and rehabilitation  compensation
and  other  assistance 
to  Project  Affected  Persons 
in  accordance  with  all
Resettlement  Plans  and  the Resettlement  Policy Framework,  whether at a  Project
Site  or  a  Linked  Site;  and  (c)  all  activities  related  to  implementation  of  the
Grievance  Redress  System,  except  for  the  assistance  of  the  Supervision
Consultant  and  the Panel  of Experts  which  shall  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds
of the Loan.

16. 

Project  Site  Resettlement  Plans.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  DGWR  and
DGHS  shall  cooperate with DKI  to, and  shall cause DKI to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

apply  the Resettlement  Policy  Framework  to  each Project  Site,  including
to  determine  whether  there  are  any  Project  Affected  Persons  at  such
Project Site;

take  all  necessary  actions  to  minimize  to  the  extent  possible  any
involuntary relocation  of persons,  or their loss of shelter, assets,  or access
to  assets,  or loss  of income  sources  or  means  of livelihood,  temporarily
or permanently  on any Project Site;

make  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  available  to  the  public  at each
POSKO,  on the Project Website,  on  the DKI  Website,  at the office  of the
Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  at  the  office  of  each  Project
Implementing  Unit  and at the office of each  Works Contractor;

with  respect  to  each  Project Site  at  which  Project  Affected  Persons  have
been  identified  in  accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,
before  commencing  any  land  acquisition  or  resettlement  or  beginning

- 30-

any works  or any  preparation for works  on any such Project Site which  is
a DKI Project  Site, or before  the Borrower  shall  permit DGWR or DGHS
to begin  any works  or any  preparation  activities  for works  on  any  Project
Site  which  is  a  DGWR  Project  Site  or  a  DGHS  Project  Site,
respectively:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

prepare  in  accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy Framework,
a draft Resettlement  Plan, with  a  timetable  and budget,  including
adequate  and  timely provision of counterpart funds;

carry  out  consultations  on  such  draft  Resettlement  Plan  in
accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and  take
such
into  consideration 
such  consultations 
Resettlement  Plan;

finalizing 

in 

submit  such  Resettlement  Plan  to  the  Bank  for no-objection  and
its  written  no-objection  on  such
receive 
Resettlement  Plan;

from  the  Bank 

provide  a  copy  of  such  Resettlement  Plan  to  the  Supervision
Consultant;

publicize  such  Resettlement  Plan  at the  POSKO  for the  relevant
Project Site  and on  the Project Website  and the  DKI Website;

ensure  that  all  Project  Affected  Persons  shall  have  been  fully
compensated  and  provided  with  all  applicable  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  benefits  and  other  assistance  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of  such  Resettlement  Plan  and  the  Resettlement
Policy  Framework,  and  provide  documentation  thereof  in  each
in
monthly  and  quarterly 
accordance  with  paragraph  18  of  this  Section  I.D  and  each
Project Report;  and

report  on  Resettlement  Plans 

(e) 

ensure  that  independent  appraisal,  consultation  and  grievance  redress
mechanisms  in  each Resettlement  Plan  and  any  recommendations  of the
Panel  of  Experts  are  implemented,  recorded  and  reported  in  a  timely
manner  and  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  Resettlement  Plan  and
the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  during 
implementation  of  the
Project.

17. 

Linked  Site  Resettlement  Plans.  With  respect  to  each  Linked  Site,  the
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  DGWR  and  DGHS  shall  cooperate  with  DKI  to,  and

-31-

shall  cause  DKI,  as  the  entity  with  responsibility  for  land  acquisition  and
resettlement in  Jakarta, to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

apply  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  to  all  Linked  Sites  with  any
dredging,  rehabilitation  or  other canal,  floodway  or  embankment-related
activities,  including  to  determine  whether  there  are  any  Project  Affected
Persons  at such  Linked Site;

take  all  necessary  actions  to  minimize  to  the  extent  possible  any
involuntary relocation  of persons, or their loss of shelter,  assets,  or access
to  assets,  or  loss  of income  sources  or  means  of livelihood,  temporarily
or permanently  on any such  Linked Site;

make  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  available  to  the  public  at each
such Linked  Site;

with  respect  to  any  such  Linked  Site  with  Project  Affected  Persons
during  Project  implementation,  before  commencing  any  land  acquisition
or resettlement or beginning  any  activities  described  in  sub-paragraph  (a)
above  on any  such Linked  Site:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

prepare  in  accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,
a  draft  Resettlement  Plan  with  a  timetable  and  budget,  including
adequate  and timely  provision of counterpart  funds;

carry  out  consultations  on  such  draft  Resettlement  Plan  in
accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and  take
such
into  consideration 
such  consultations 
Resettlement  Plan;

finalizing 

in 

submit  such  Resettlement  Plan  to  the  Bank  for no-objection  and
its  written  no-objection  on  such
receive  from 
Resettlement  Plan;

the  Bank 

provide  a  copy  of  such  Resettlement  Plan  to  the  Supervision
Consultant

publicize  such  Resettlement  Plan  at  such  Linked  Site and  on  the
Project Website  and  the DKI Website;  and

ensure  that  all  Project  Affected  Persons  shall  have  been  fully
compensated  and  provided  with  all  applicable  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  benefits  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of such
Resettlement  Plan  and  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and

- 32  -

provide  documentation  thereof  at the  relevant  POSKO,  in  each
in
monthly  and  quarterly 
accordance  with  paragraph  18  of  this  Section  I.D  and  each
Project Report;  and

report  on  Resettlement  Plans 

(e) 

ensure  that  independent  appraisal,  consultation  and  grievance  redress
mechanisms  in  each  Resettlement  Plan  and  any  recommendations  of the
Panel  of  Experts  are  implemented,  recorded  and  reported  in  a  timely
manner  and  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of the  Resettlement  Plan  and
implementation  of  the
the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  during 
Project.

18. 

Without  limitation  on  the  generality  of paragraph  4  of this  Section  I.D,  the  DKI
Project  Implementation  Unit  shall  provide  to  the  Central  Project  Management
Unit  and  the  Bank  monthly  reports  on  the  implementation  of  all  Resettlement
Plans,  which  shall  be  included  in  the  quarterly  Project  Reports  referred  to  in
Section II  of this Agreement.

E. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines and  the Anti-Corruption  Action  Plan.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall monitor and  evaluate  the progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  Performance  Indicators  agreed  in  writing
between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank.  Each  such  Project  Report  shall  cover  the
period  of  one  (1) calendar  quarter,  and  shall  be furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later
than forty-five  (45) days  after the end  of the period covered by such report.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  Project  Report  shall  include:  (a)  from  the
Central  Project  Management  Unit:  (i)  progress  reports  on  the  Annual  Work
Program  of  each  Project  Implementation  Unit;  (ii)  procurement  progress;
(iii) challenges,  proposed  solutions  and  assistance  required;  (iv)  updated  project
cost  estimates,  procurement  plan  and  implementation  schedule;  and  (v)  updated
progress  on  Performance 
the  DKI  Project
Implementation  Unit:  reports on the implementation  of the Resettlement  Plans.

Indicators; 

from 

and 

(b) 

3. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  Central  Project  Management  Unit,  shall  prepare,
under terms  of reference  satisfactory  to the  Bank, and  furnish  to  the Bank, by  no

A. 

1 .

2. 

- 33  -

later  than  the  second  anniversary  of this  Agreement  (except as may  be  otherwise
agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  in  writing),  a  mid-term  report
integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  performed
pursuant  to  paragraph  1  of this  Section  II.A,  on  the  progress  achieved  in  the
carrying  out of the Project  during the period preceding  the date  of said report and
setting out the  measures  recommended  to ensure  the efficient  carrying  out of the
Project and  the achievement  of the objectives  thereof during  the period  following
such  date,  based  on the  conclusions  and recommendations  of such review  and  the
Bank's views on the matter.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation on the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, the Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end
of  each  calendar  quarter  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project
covering the quarter,  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to the Bank.

The Borrower  shall  have  its Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall cover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year  of the Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank not later  than  six (6)  months.after the end of such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting  Services. 
consulting  services  required for the Project and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project and  to
be financed  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the  provisions of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular

B. 

I1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1I 

2. 

3. 

- 34 -

B. 

1 .

2. 

I1. 

2. 

contracts refer  to the corresponding  method  described  in  Sections II  and III of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as  the case may  be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of  Goods,  Works,  and  Non-Consulting
Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded  on the basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and
non-consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under which  such  methods may be used:

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject 

to 
procedures  set out in Annex  2 to this  Schedule

the  following  additional

Procurement Method

(b)  Shopping
(c)  Direct  Contracting

C. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall specify  the circumstances  under  which  such methods  may  be used:

Procurement  Method
(a)  Quality  Based Selection
(b)  Least-Cost  Selection
(c)  Selection Based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications
(d)  Single-Source  Selection
(e)  Procedures  set forth in paragraphs  5.2 and  5.3  of the  Consultant Guidelines

for the  Selection of Individual  Consultants

(f)  Single-source  procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

- 35  -

). 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall set forth those contracts  which  shall  be  subject to  the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall be subject  to  Post  Review by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),  to finance  Eligible Expenditures  as set
forth in  the table  in paragraph  2 below.

The following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each  Category.

A. 

I. 

2. 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

42,400,000 

17,800,000 

69,340,000 

80%

80%

67%

10,100,000 

100%

Category 

(1) Works under Part  1 of the  Project

(1)(a)  Works  under  Part  1  of  the 
Project for the DGWR Project  Sites

(1)(b)  Works 
Project for the DGHS  Project  Sites

under  Part  1  of  the 

(1)(c)  Works 
Project for the DKI Project Sites

under  Part  1  of  the 

(2)  Consultants  Services,  Goods  and 
Non-Consulting  Services  under  Parts
2(a),  2(d)  and Part 2(e) of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 

139,640,000

- 36 -

B. 

I. 

1. 

2. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made  from the  Loan  Account until  the  Bank has  received  payment  in  full  of the
Front-end  Fee.

2. 

The Closing Date is March  31,  2017.

Section  V. 

Other Undertakings.

The Borrower  represents  and warrants  that each  of DKI, DGWR  and  DGHS  shall
at  all  times  during  Project  implerientation,  maintain  all  legal  and  regulatory
authority necessary  to  carry  out  its  respective  obligations  under  this  Agreement
and the Project Agreement.

To  the  extent decided  by  final  judgment  of a  court  or  arbitration  or  other  body
that  the  Bank  is  liable  for  any  losses,  claims,  damages,  awards,  penalties,  or
liability incurred  which  arise from  any  claim by any  third  party  arising  out of the
to  any
execution  of  the  Project  or  any  action  taken  by  PJA  or  related 
development  at  the  Ancol  CDF,  then  subject  to  the  aforesaid  final  judgment  the
Borrower  shall  indemnify  and  hold  harmless  the  Bank  with  respect  to  all  such
liability.  This  provision  shall  not  be  limited  by  Section  9.05  of  the  General
Conditions.

ANNEX  1 to SCHEDULE  2

Section  1.  Project Sites,  Project Phases,  Works  Contract Packages  and Responsible  Project

Implementation  Units

Column  1: 
Works 
Contract 
Package  o 

Column 2: 
Project  Site Name 

Approximate 
length  (m) 

Column  3: 
Project Site Location* 

Approximate  Approximate 
area (m2  or 
ha) 

width (m) 

Ciliwung-Gunung  Sahari 
Floodway 

5,100 

171,870  m 

Waduk Melati  (Kali Gresik  and 
Cideng  Hulu) 
Cengkareng 
(including  sea side) 

Floodway 

(2,004) 
(1,260) 
7,840 (540) 

-

4.90 ha. 

490,00 0 

Lower  Sunter Hoodway 

9,980 

338,320  m 

Cideng  Thamrin  Drain  (Round 
Road drain) 

3,840  (1,960) 

55.680  M2 

Drain 

5,950  (400) 

161,240  m- 

Sentiong-Sunter 
(including  Ancol  Canal) 

Waduk  Sunter  Utara 
drain) 
Waduk  Sunter Selatan 

Waduk  Sunter Timur III 

Tanjungan  Drain 

(outlet 

(570) 

-

-

600 

33.00 ha. 

19.20 ha. 

8.00 ha. 

10,560 m' 

Lower Angke  Drain 

4,050 

166,050 m 

West  Banjir Canal  (sea side) 

3,060  (590) 

266,220  m- 

Upper  Sunter Floodway 

5,150 

131,320  m 

Phase 1
21.50- 
45.90 

38.00~ 
87.00 

20.20- 
47.40 

Phase 2
10.00- 
19.00 

16.10- 
31.20 

-

-

-

9.20  -
26.00 

31.00- 
51.00 

33.00 -
41.00 

15.00- 
36.00 

1 

2a 

2b 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Column  4:
Responsible  Project
Implementation  Unit
/ Related Part of the
Project

DKI  Project Sites
(DKI Part of the
Project)

DGWR  Project Sites

11'% %'.LfI of the

Project)

DGWR  Project  Sites
(MPW  Part of the
Project)

DGHS  Project  Sites
(MPW  Part of the
Project)

DKI Project Sites
(DKI Part of the
Project)

DGHS  Project Sites
(MPW Part of the
Project)

DGWR Project Sites
(MPW Part of the
Project)

Location 
Coordinates 
(WGS  84)** 

from 48M 702  674 
m  E, 931  7919 m S 
to 48M 702 501  m 
E,  932  2469  mS
48M 701  173  m E,
931  4570 m  S
from  48M 693  543 
m E, 931  7587  m S 
to 48M 693  748 m 
E,  932  5466  mS
from  48M 709 909 
m E, 931  6807  m S 
to 48M 711  015  m 
E,  932  4383  mS

from  48M 701  462 
m E,  931  5022  m S 
to 48M  700 392  m 
E,  931  7488  m  S
from 48M 704 933 
m E,  931  7153  m S 
to 48M  705  163  m 
E, 932  2503  mS
48M 706 757  m E,
932 2450  m S
48M 706 552  m E,
932 0062  mS
48M 709 879  m E,
932 2542  m S
from 48M 690 497 
m E, 9324161  mS 
to 48M  691  024 m 
E,  9324644  m  S
from 48M 695  478
m E, 9318801  mS
to 48M  696 390 m
E, 932  2730  mS
from 48M 696 390 
m E,  932  2730 mS 
to 48M  695  518  m 
E, 932  5394  mS
from 48M 709 754
m E,  931  2931  mS
to 48M  709  909 m
E, 931_6807  m  S

38

21.00- 
51.00 

13.00~ 
31.00 

15.00- 
29.00 

7.00- 
29.00 

7 

Grogol-Sekretaris  Drain 

2,970 

ANNEX  1 to SCHEDULE  2, continued

Pakin-Kali  Besar-Jelakeng  Drain 

4,910 

Krukut  Cideng  Drain 

Krukut  Lama Drain 

3,250 

3,490 

DKI Project  Sites
(DKI Part of the
Project)

106,920  m 

108,020 m2 

71,500 m' 

62,820  m' 

from 48M 697  787 
m E, 931  7987  m  S 
to 48M  695  478  m 
E,  931  8801 m S
from  48M 700 332
m E, 932 0615 mS
to 48M 699 421  m
E,  932  2643  mS
from 48M  700 392
m E, 9317488 mS
to 48M 700 332  m
E, 932 0615  mS
from 48M  701  053
m E, 9316349  mS
to  48M 700  389 m
E, 9319084 m S

.

*Approxtimate  length,  width,  area  and coordinates  may  vary without  an amendment  to  this Agreement provided  that  the  variance  is
within and  in accordance  with the terms  of a  Works Contract  for which  the Bank has issued a no-objection  letter.  See  also  the map  in
Sectia  3 of this  Annex.
**  WGS  84 refers  to  World Geodetic  System  84,  a reference  coordinate  system.

Section  2.  Linked Sites

Approximate length  (m) 
I area (ha)* 

Location  Coordinates  (WGS
84)**

Linked Sites 
Linked to the Sentiong Sunter Drain:
1. Kali  Item 

2.  Kalibaru 

3.  Sunter Kemayoran 

Linked to Ciliwung-Gunung Sahari:
4.  Ancol  Kampung  Bandan 

5.  Ancol Long  Storage 

Linked to the  Upper Sunter Floodway:
6.  Canal  along Jalan  Kayu  Putih Timur 

2,950  m 

to  Pakin-Kali  Besar-Jelakeng

Linked 
Drain:
7.  Anak  K.  Ciliwung  Utara 

8.  Canal  along Jalan  Tubagus  Angke 

9.  PHB  Bandengan  Utara 

10.  Waduk  Pluit 

780 m 

1,450 m 

2,730 m 

1,330  m 

1,550 m 

2,075  m 

1,780 m 

1,530 m 

80  ha. 

from  48M 705  214 m E,  932  2354 m
S to 48M 704  486 m  E, 932  2317 m
S
from  48M 704  199 m E, 931  7101  m
S  to 48M 704 985  m E, 931  8244  m
S
from  48M  708  138  m E,  931  8453  m
S to  48M 705  692 m E,  931  9264  m
S

from 48M  701  232  m  E,  932  1892  m
S  to 48M 702  548  m  E,  932 2037  m
S
from  48M 704  114 m E,  932  2314  m
S to  48M 702  594 m E, 932  2045  m
S

from 48M  708  158  m E, 931
5540 mS to  48M  710  141  m E,
9316666  mS

from  48M 701  201  m  E,  932  0954 m
S to 48M  700 242  mn E, 932  2322  mn
S
from 48M 698  302 m  E,  932 0676 m
S to 48M 700 057  mn E,  932  0811  mn
S
from  48M 698  437 m E,  932  1296
mS  to 48M 699  995  m E,  932  1436
_  mS
48M 699  144  m E,  932  3577  m  S

*Approximate  length, area and  coordinates may  vary  without  an  amendment  to this  Agreement,  subject  to prior written
concurrence  of the Bank.  See also  the map  in Section 3  of this Annex.
**  WGS  84 refers  to World  Geodetic  System  84,  a reference  coordinate  system.

39

ANNEX  1 to SCHEDULE 2,  continued

Section  3.  Map

ATTACHED  AT  END  OF DOCUMENT

40

ANNEX  2 to SCHEDULE  2

National  Competitive  Bidding:  Modifications  to Procedures

(Public  Tendering) 

The  procedures  applicable  to  the  procurement  of  goods,  works,  and  non-consulting
services  under contracts  awarded  on the  basis of National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be those  of
the  Pelelangan  Umum 
and  Pemilihan  Langsung  /  Pelelangan
Sederhana (Simplified  Tendering)  methods  as  set forth  in the  Borrower's  Presidential  Regulation
No.  54/2010,  with  the  modifications  set  out  below  in  order  to  ensure  economy,  efficiency,
transparency,  and  broad  consistency  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3.3  of said Guidelines.  The Pemilihan Langsung /  Pelelangan
Sederhana method  shall  apply  to  such procurement  up to the financial  thresholds  specified in  said
Regulation. 
the  Borrower's  procedures  and  these
modifications,  the  latter shall govern.

the  event  of  a  conflict  between 

In 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Procuring  entities  shall  use  the  appropriate  standard bidding  documents  acceptable  to  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank.  The  provisions  of Section  1.14  (Fraud  and  Corruption)  of the
Procurement  Guidelines  shall  apply,  and  each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed
out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  include  provisions  on  matters  pertaining  to  fraud
and  corruption  as  defined  in  paragraph  1.14(a)  of  said  Guidelines  and  the  contract
provisions  set out in  paragraph  1.14(e)  of said Guidelines.

Foreign  bidders  shall not be precluded  from bidding.  If a registration  process  is required,
a  foreign  firm  determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder  shall  be  given
reasonable  time  for  registration.  Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  required  to  form  a  joint
venture  or sub-contract  part of the  supply  of goods, non-consulting  services,  and works  as
a  condition for  submitting bids  or the  award  of the  contract.  Bidding  documents  shall be
made  available,  by  mail  or  in  person,  to  all  international  bidders  who  are  willing  to  pay
the required fee.

No preference  of any kind  shall be  given  to any bidders.

Under  the  Pelelangan Umum  method,  bidders  shall  be  allowed  at  least  twenty-one  (21)
days  from  the  date  of  the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of  availability  of  bidding
documents,  whichever  is  later,  to  prepare  and  submit  bids;  this  period  shall  be  ten  (10)
days under the Pemilihan Langsung /  Pelelangan Sederhana method.

Bids  invited  under  the Pelelangan Umum method  shall be  submitted  in  one  (1) envelope
and  evaluated using post-qualification.

No  bidder  shall  be  rejected  merely  on  the  basis  of  a  comparison  with  the  owner's
estimate  and  budget ceiling  without  the Bank's prior  written  concurrence.

Bid  security,  at the  bidder's  option,  shall be  in  the  form of a  letter  of credit or  guarantee
from  a  reputable  bank  or other  reputable  financial  institution  and  shall  without  exception
follow  the form provided  for this purpose  in the bidding documents.

All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  Bank's  prior  written
concurrence.

41

9. 

Government-owned  enterprises  in  Indonesia  shall  be  eligible  to  participate  in  bidding
only  if they  can  establish  that they  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under
commercial  law,  and are not dependent  agencies  of the Borrower or sub-borrower.

42

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the first Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted, as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to  which  a Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

March  1, 2021 
September  1, 2021 
March  1, 2022 
September  1, 2022 
March  1, 2023 
September  1, 2023 
March  1, 2024 
September  1, 2024 
March  1, 2025 
September  1, 2025 
March  1, 2026 
September  1, 2026 
March  1, 2027 
September  1, 2027 
March  1, 2028 
September  1, 2028 
March  1, 2029 
September  1, 2029 
March  1, 2030 
September  1, 2030 
March  1, 2031 
September  1, 2031 
March  1, 2032 
September  1, 2032 
March  1, 2033 
September  1, 2033 
March  1, 2034 

Installment Share
(Expressed as  a Percentage)
2.17
2.22
2.28
2.34
2.40
2.46
2.52
2.58
2.64
2.71
2.78
2.85
2.92
2.99
3.07
3.14
3.22
3.30
3.38
3.47
3.56
3.65
3.74
3.83
3.93
4.02
4.12

43

September  1, 2034 
March  1, 2035 
September  1, 2035 
March  1, 2036 

4.23
4.33
4.44
4.71

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as of such date in  accordance  with paragraph  1 of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the first Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment Date  falling after  the date of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by the  Bank by  multiplying the  amount  of each such withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is  the original Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in paragraph  1 of this  Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the purposes  solely of calculating  the principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
the  date  of
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following 
withdrawal  and  shall be  repayable  on  each Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with  the second Principal  Payment Date following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such  billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate  that reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the Screen  Rate.

44

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency,  so as to produce  a separate amortization  schedule  for each such amount.

45

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

"AMDAL"  means  Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, the  Borrower's  term  for  an
environmental  impact  assessment,  managing  and  monitoring  process  and  its  related
documentation  under  Law  No.32  of  2009  regarding  Environmental  Protection  and
Management.

"Ancol CDF" means  the contained  disposal facility  in Jakarta Bay, designated  on the map
in  Section  3 of the  Annex to  Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  consisting  of approximately
119  hectares  of land reclaimed  or  to be  reclaimed  and  a  confining  dyke  approximately  2
kilometers  long  and  800  meters  wide,  owned,  designed,  constructed,  maintained  and
operated  by  PJA  in  accordance  with  the  Ancol  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,
Management  Plan  and  Monitoring  Plan  and  the  Ancol  Supplementary  Report,  and  to
which  the Project  Implementation  Units shall  deliver  Dredged  Materials from  the  Project
Sites  to  PJA  for  deposit  in  such  Ancol  CDF  in  accordance  with  the  Cooperation
Agreement.

"Ancol  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and  Monitoring  Plan
(AMDAL)"  means  the  impact  assessment,  management  plan and  monitoring  plan for  the
Ancol  CDF,  prepared  by  PJA,  approved  by  the  Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental
Management Agency  on February  6, 2006  and March  30,  2009  (it being understood  that
to  the extent  there may  be  a  conflict between  the  terms of the  two  such  dated  documents,
the  terms of the  later document  shall prevail)  and  disclosed  on January  26, 2011,  referred
to  in  Section  I.D  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  Section  I.C  of the  Schedule  to  the
Project  Agreement,  setting  out  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional
measures,  to eliminate  any adverse  environmental  impacts of activities to be  implemented
by  PJA in  the  Ancol  CDF,  offset them,  or reduce  them to  acceptable  levels,  or enhance
positive  impacts  and  consisting of:

the  environmental  impact  assessment, dated February  6, 2006;

the  Environment  Management  Plan  (RKL), dated  February 6,  2006;

the Environment  Monitoring  Plan (RPL)  dated  February  6, 2006;

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  Ancol  Updated  Environment  Management  Plan  (RKL)  and  Environment
Monitoring  Plan (RPL) dated  March 30, 2009;  and

(e) 

all  schedules  and  annexes  to such  assessments  and  plans;

in  each  case  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  agreement  of the Bank.

4. 

"Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards 
the  Ancol
Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and  Monitoring  Plan  (AMDAL)

Instruments"  means,  collectively, 

46

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

and  the  Ancol  Supplementary  Report,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time
with the prior written agreement  of the Borrower and the Bank.

"Ancol  Supplementary  Report" means  the  supplementary  Environment Management  Plan
and  Monitoring  Plan  (RKL/RPL)  prepared  by  PJA, dated  September  2011  and  disclosed
on November  2,  2011,  setting out  the  additional  measures  which  PJA will  implement to
mitigate,  manage  and  monitor  adverse  environmental  impacts  in  the  Ancol  CDF,  as  the
same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the
Borrower  and  the Bank.

"Annual  Work  Program"  means  each  annual  program  of  activities  under  Part  1 of  the
Project,  developed  by  a Project  Implementation  Unit covering  activities  at  its respective
Project  Sites  in  accordance  with  paragraph  4  of  Section  I.C  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and  paragraph  3 of Section  I.B of the  Schedule  to  the  Project Agreement,  and
agreed  in  writing with  the Bank, as  in  each  case  as  the same  may  be  modified  from  time
to  time  with the prior written  agreement  of the Bank.

"Anti-Corruption  Action  Plan"  means  a  stand-alone  chapter  of  the  Project  Operations
Manual  designed  to  integrate  the  contents  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and  to  give
effect  thereto,  and  giving details  of a  program of actions,  measures  and  policies designed
to  reduce  or  eliminate  fraud  and  corruption  in  all  its  forms  under  the  Project,  including
enhanced  information  disclosure provisions,  civil  society  oversight provisions,  mitigation
measures  to  deal with  the risks  associated  with  collusion,  forgery and  fraud, a  complaints
handling  mechanism,  and  an  appropriate  regime  of  sanctions  and  remedies,  as  such
chapter  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank
and  the Borrower,  and  such  term includes  any annexes  or  schedules  to such  chapter.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed by IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits  and Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and revised in  January  2011.

"Bappenas"  means  Badan  Perencanaan Pembangunan  Nasional,  the  Borrower's
National  Development  Planning  Agency, or  any successor  thereto.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Central  Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  "CPIU"  means  the  management  unit  to  be
established  , staffed  and  operated  by  DGWR  in  its  Directorate  of Rivers  and  Coastal  (or
any  successor  to  such  directorate  acceptable 
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank),  and
responsible  for  project  implementation  management  as  referred  to  in  paragraph  2(b)  of
Section  I.B  of the  Schedule  2 to the Loan  Agreement,  or any  successor  thereto.

"Central  Project  Management  Unit"  or  "CPMU"  means  the  management  unit  to  be
established,  staffed  and  operated  by  DGWR  in  its  Office  of Planning  and  Programming
(or  any  successor  to  such  office  acceptable  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank)  and
responsible  for  overall  project  coordination  management  as  referred  to  in  paragraph  2(a)
of Section  I.B  of the Schedule  2 to  the Loan Agreement,  or any successor  thereto.

47

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the Borrower  and the  Bank,  as
administrator  of grant  funds provided  by  the  Netherlands  (TF092649), dated  October  20,
2008,  as amended  from time to time.

"Consolidated  Summary  of Environmental  Impact  Assessment"  means  the  Consolidated
Summary  of  Environmental  Impact  Assessment  for  the  Project,  prepared  by  the
Borrower,  acting  through the Central  Project Implementation  Unit, dated  September 2011
and  disclosed  on November  2, 2011,  as the  same may  be amended  from time  to time  with
the prior  written agreement  of the Bank.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  by  World  Bank Borrowers"  published  by  the  Bank in  May 2004  and revised
in  October 2006  and May 2010.

"Cooperation Agreement"  means  the Cooperation  Agreement,  dated  December  22,  2010,
between  DKI  and  PJA,  outlining  the responsibilities  and  roles  of each  party  with  respect
to  the  delivery  of  Dredged  Materials  to  the  Ancol  CDF  and  the  subsequent  deposit
therein,  as the  same may be  amended from time to  time; provided,  however, that  any such
amendments  have  been agreed  in writing by the  Bank to be acceptable  for the purposes  of
the Project prior to the signature  of any  such  amendments.

"DGHS" or  "Directorate  General  of Human  Settlements"  means  the Direktorat Jenderal
Cipta Karya, the  Directorate  General  of Human  Settlements  of  the  Ministry  of Public
Works,  or any  successor  thereto.

"DGHS Project  Sites"  means,  collectively,  the  Project  Sites  which  are  the  responsibility
of DGHS  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

Cideng  Thamrin  Drain  (Round  Road  drain),  which  is  a Phase  2 Project  Site  and
which comprises  Package  3; and

Tanjungan  Drain  and  Lower  Angke  Drain,  which  are  Phase  2  Project  Sites  and
which  comprise  Package  5;

each  as  identified  in  the  table  in  Section  1 of the  Annex  to  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"DGWR"  or  "Directorate  General  of  Water  Resources"  means  the  Direktorat Jenderal
Sumber Daya Air of the Ministry  of Public  Works,  or any  successor thereto.

"DGWR  Project Sites"  means,  collectively,  the  Project  Sites  which  are the  responsibility
of DGWR as follows:

Cengkareng  Floodway  (including  sea  side),  which  is  a  Phase  1 Project  Site  and
which comprises  Package  2a;

Lower  Sunter  Floodway,  which  is  a  Phase  1 Project  Site  and  which  comprises
Package  2b; and

48

(c) 

West  Banjir  Canal  (sea  side)  and  Upper  Sunter  Floodway,  which  are  Phase  2
Project Sites and  which  comprise Package  6;

each  as  identified  in  the  table  in  Section  1 of the  Annex  to  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

the  Direktorat
"Directorate  of  Environmental  Sanitation  Development"  means 
Penyehatan  Linkungan  Permukiman  or  Directorate  of  Environmental  Sanitation
Development  of DGHS  in  which  the Project  Implementation  Unit  for the  DGHS  Project
Sites under the MPW  Parts of the  Project is located,  or any successor  thereto.

"Disposal  Sites"  means,  collectively,  each  of the  Ancol  CDF,  the  Solid  Waste  Disposal
Site  and the  Hazardous Material  Disposal  Site.

"DKI"  means  Daerah Khusus  Ibukota  Jakarta, the  province-level  administrative  sub-
division of the Borrower  for the Jakarta special  capital region, or any  successor thereto.

"DKI  Parts  of the  Project"  means,  collectively,  the activities  which  are the  responsibility
of DKI under:

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

Part 1 of the Project implemented  at the DKI Project  Sites;

Part 2(a) of the Project with respect to the  DKI Project Sites;

implementation  of all Resettlement  Plans under Part 2(c) of the Project;  and

cooperation  in  the  implementation  of the  Grievance  Redress  System under  Part
2(d)  of the Project and  the Panel of Experts under  Part 2(e) of the Project.

25. 

"DKI  Project  Sites"  means,  collectively,  the Project  Sites  which  are  the responsibility  of
DKI as follows:

Ciliwung-Gunung  Sahari  Floodway  and  Waduk  Melati  (Kali  Gresik  and  Cideng
Hulu),  which  are Phase  1 Project Sites  and  which comprise  Package  1;

Sentiong-Sunter  Drain  (including  Ancol  Canal),  Waduk  Sunter  Utara  (outlet
drain),  Waduk  Sunter  Selatan,  and  Waduk  Sunter  Timur  III,  which  are  Phase  2
Project Sites and  which  comprise  Package  4; and

Grogol-Sekretaris  Drain,  Pakin-Kali  Besar-Jelakeng  Drain,  Krukut Cideng Drain
and  Krukut  Lama  Drain,  which  are  Phase  2  Project  Sites  and  which  comprise
Package 7;

each  as  identified  in  the  table  in  Section  1 of the  Annex  to  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

26. 

"DKI  Website"  means  the  website  or the  portion  of the  website  established  and  operated
by  DKI  to  provide  information  to  the  public  about  the  DKI  Parts  of  the  Project,  at
www.jakarta.go.id,  or any other website acceptable  to  the Borrower  and the  Bank.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

49

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"DPU-DKI" means Dinas Pekerjaan Umum,  the  Jakarta public  works  agency  of DKI  in
which  the Project Implementation  Unit for the  DKI Parts  of the Project is  located,  or any
successor  thereto.

"Dredged  Materials"  means  materials  dredged  from  the  Project  Sites,  excluding
Hazardous  Materials  and  Solid  Waste,  that  will,  subject  to  the  terms  of this  Agreement,
be  delivered  by  each Project Implementation  Unit's  Works Contractor  to PJA for  deposit
in  the Ancol CDF  in accordance  with the  Cooperation Agreement.

"Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF" means  the
Project  framework,  prepared  by  the  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit,  dated  September  2011  and  disclosed  on  November  2,  2011  and
acceptable  to  the  Bank, referred  to  in  Section  I.D  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and
Section  I.C  of  the  Schedule 
the  Project  Agreement,  setting  out  mitigation,
enhancement,  monitoring, and  institutional  measures,  including capacity building  through
training,  to  eliminate  any  adverse  environmental  impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented
under  the  Project,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  enhance  positive
impacts,  including  the  requirements  for  the  development  of  each  Environmental  and
Social  Safeguards  Management  Plan,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time
with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  schedules  or
annexes  to  such framework.

to 

"Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Management  Plan"  or  "ESMP" means  each plan
to  be  prepared,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Environmental  and  Social
Safeguards  Management  Framework,  by  each  Works  Contractor,  approved  by  the
Supervision  Consultant,  and  adopted  by  each  Project  Implementation  Unit  for  one  or
more  Project Sites  under  its respective responsibility  and  acceptable  to the  Bank, referred
to  in  Section  I.D  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement  and  Section  I.C  of  the  Schedule  to  the
Project  Agreement,  setting  out Project Site-specific  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,
and  institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training,  to  eliminate  any
adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of  activities  to  be  implemented  under  the
Project,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or enhance  positive  impacts,  as
the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the
Bank, and  such  term includes  any  schedules  or annexes  to such plan.

"Environmental  and  Social  Working  Group"  or  "ESWG" means  the  environmental  and
social  working  group,  to  be  established  by  DKI  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3(e)  of
Section  I.B  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement  and  acceptable  to the Bank, to be responsible
for preparing  and  supervising the  carrying out of all Resettlement  Plans.

"Environmental 
Impact  Assessment,  Management  and  Monitoring  Plans"  means,
collectively, 
Impact  Assessment,  Management  and
Monitoring  Plan;  and  the  Phase  2  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  and
Monitoring Plan.

the  Phase  1  Environmental 

"Environmental  Impact  Assessment  Supplementary  Report"  means  the  report  prepared
by 
the  Borrower,  acting  through  the  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  dated
September 2011  and  disclosed  on  November  2, 2011,  acceptable  to the Bank, prepared  in
connection  with  the  Phase  I Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and

50

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

Monitoring  Plan  and  also to be  applied  to  the Phase 2 Environmental  Impact Assessment,
Management  Plan  and  Monitoring  Plan,  and  including  all  supplements  and  annexes  to
such  report,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the Bank.

"Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the  Environmental  Impact
Assessment,  Management  and  Monitoring  Plans,  the  Environmental  Impact  Assessment
Supplementary  Report,  the Consolidated  Summary  of Environmental  Impact  Assessment
and  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  the  Environmental  and
Social  Management  Plan for each Project  Site,  and  the Traffic Management  Plan for each
Project  Site.

"Flood  Management  Information  System"  means  the  Borrower's  system  for  managing
flood  information in  Jakarta,  for which  the  Project  will provide  technical  assistance  under
Part 2(b)  of the Project.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General Conditions for Loans",  dated July  31,  2010.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"Grievance  Redress  System"  means  the  system,  meeting  the  requirements  set  out  in
paragraph  12  of Section  I.C of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement  and  paragraph  11  of Section
I.B  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  described  in  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  and  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  designed  to  track complaints  regarding
the  Project,  guide  resolution  of  such  complaints,  and  track  and  publicize  resolution  of
such  complaints,  as  such  system  may  be  updated  from  time  to  time  by  prior  written
agreement between  the Borrower and  the Bank.

"Hazardous  Material"  means  any materials  that,  due  to their nature,  concentration,  and/or
amount,  can  directly  or indirectly  pollute  and/or  harm  the  environment,  and/or endanger
the  environment  and  /or  the  health,  and  life  existence  of humans  and  the  other  living
creatures  in  as  defined  in  paragraph  21  of Section  1 of Chapter  1 of the  Borrower's  Law
No.32  of 2009  regarding  Environmental  Protection  and  Management  (and referred  to  as
Limbah Bahan Berbahaya dan Beracun, or "B3  Waste").

"Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site"  means  the  existing  secure  landfill  of approximately
50  hectares,  located  in  Cileungsi  sub-district,  Bogor,  West  Java  and  operated  by  the
License  Number  Kep-
Operator 
Hazardous  Material  Disposal 
issued  by  the  Indonesia  Environmental  Impact  Management
36/BAPEDAL/07/1993, 
Agency  (BAPEDAL),  dated  July  8,  1993,  or  such  other site  lawfully  operating  under  the
laws  and  regulations  of the  Borrower as  may be  agreed  in  writing  between  the  Borrower
and the  Bank.

under 

"Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Operator"  means  PT.  Prasadha  Pamunah  Limbah Industri
(PPLi),  a  limited liability  company  duly  incorporated  and  operating  under  the  laws  and
regulations  of the Borrower,  which  is owned in a  minority  stake  by the  Borrower  through
the  Ministry  of  State-Owned  Enterprises,  and  owned  in  a  majority  stake  by  Dowa  Eco
System Co.  Ltd.,  Japan,  and  which  holds  a  Hazardous  Material  landfill  license  (License
issued  by  the  Indonesia  Environmental  Impact
Number  Kep-36/BAPEDAL/07/1993, 
Management  Agency  (BAPEDAL),  dated  July  8,  1993),  or  such  other  operator  of  the

51

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

Hazardous  Material  Disposal  Site  as  may  be agreed  in writing  between  the Borrower and
the Bank.

the  following  caused  on  account  of  Project
"Involuntary  Resettlement"  means 
implementation:  (a)  the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss of income  sources  or means  of
livelihood,  whether  or  not  the  affected  person  must move  to  another  location;  or  (b)  the
involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas resulting
in  adverse impacts  on the  livelihood of affected  persons.

"Jakarta" means  the geographic  area that is the territory  of DKI.

'Provincial
"Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental  Management  Agency"  means 
Environmental  Management  Agency  (BPLHD)  at  the  province  and  municipal  level  for
DKI, or  any successor thereto.

the 

"Land  Acquisition  Committee"  means  each  land  acquisition/procurement  committee,
duly  constituted  in  accordance  with  the regulations  of DKI  and  operating  in  accordance
with the Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  or  any successor  thereto.

"Linked  Site"  means  each  of:  (a)  Kali  Item;  (b)  Kalibaru;  (c)  Sunter  Kemayoran;
(d)  Ancol  Kampung  Bandan;  (e)  Ancol  Long  Storage;  (f)  the  canal  along  Jalan  Kayu
Putih Timur;  (g)  Anak  K.  Ciliwung Utara;  (h) the  canal  along  Jalan  Tubagus  Angke;  (i)
PHB  Bandengan  Utara;  and  (j)  Waduk  Pluit,  as  each  such  site  identified  in  the  table  in
Section  2 of the Annex to  Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Ministry  of  Finance"  means  Kementerian Keuangan, the  Ministry  of  Finance  of  the
Borrower,  or any  successor thereto.

"Ministry  of Home Affairs"  means  the Ministry  of Home Affairs  of the Borrower,  or any
successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of  Public  Works"  or  "MPW"  means  Kementerian  Pekerjaan  Umum,  the
Ministry  of Public  Works of the Borrower,  or any successor  thereto.

"MPW  Parts  of  the  Project"  means,  collectively, 
responsibility  of MPW under:

the  activities  which  are 

the

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Part  I  of the  Project  implemented  at  the  DGWR  Project  Sites  and  the  DGHS
Project  Sites;

Part 2(a)  of the  Project,  Part 2(b)  of the Project, Part  2(d)  of the  Project  and  Part
2(e)  of the Project;  and

Part 2(c)  of the  Project with  respect to  the  cooperation  required  between  DGWR
and/or  DGHS  and  DKI  in  the  implementation  of  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  and Resettlement  Plans.

52

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

56. 

57. 

58. 

"National  Steering  Committee  for  Water  Resources"  means  the  committee,  established
by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  BAPPENAS  decision  no  18/M.PPN/HK/01/2009,  as  the
same  may  be  amended  from time  to  time,  and  described  in paragraph  1 of Section  I.B  of
Schedule  2  to  the  Loan  Agreement,  responsible  for  providing  coordination  and  overall
guidance  for the Project.

"Office  of  Planning  and  International  Cooperation"  means  the  office  of  planning  and
overseas  cooperation of the Ministry  of Public  Works,  or any successor  thereto.

"Offsite  Sources"  means  the sources for Sand  and Laterite  for the Ancol  CDF.

"Package"  means  each of the packages  of Works  Contracts (Packages  1, 2a, 2b,  3,  4,  5,  6
and  7),  identified  by  number  in  column  1  of  the  table  in  Section  1 of  the  Annex  to
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  which  packages  have  been  grouped  together  for  the
purposes  of  procurement  processing  and  implementation  by  the  responsible  Project
Implementation  Units.

"Panel  of  Experts"  means  the  independent  panel  of  experts  to  be  established  by  the
Central  Project  Implementation  Unit  and  to  operate  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3 of
Section  I.D  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

55. 

"Part"  means  each of the two  groupings  of activities  comprising  the Project,  namely:

(a) 

(b) 

Part  1 of  the  Project  (Dredging  and  rehabilitation  of  selected  key  floodways,
canals  and  retention  basins),  comprised  of  Part  1(a)  and  Part  1(b),  each  as
described  in  more detail  in Schedule  1 to this  Agreement  and for which  a table  of
related  implementation  arrangements  is  also  provided  in  Section  1 of the  Annex
to  Schedule  2 to this  Agreement;  and

Part  2  of  the  Project  (Technical  assistance  for  Project  management,  social
safeguards  and  capacity  building),  comprised  of Part  2(a),  Part  2(b),  Part  2(c),
Part  2(d)  and  Part  2(e),  each  as  described  in  more  detail  in  Schedule  1 to  this
Agreement.

"Performance  Indicators"  means  the  indicators  to  measure  performance  of the  Project,
agreed  in  writing  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank, as  of the  date of this  Agreement,
for the  purposes  of paragraph  I of Section II.A  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Phase"  means  each  of  the  two  phases  of implementation  of  the  Project  (Phase  I  and
Phase  2),  which  provide  for  a  sequenced  Project  implementation  design  in  which
Packages  of  Works  Contracts,  related  implementation  activities  and  related  technical
assistance  activities  are  planned  for  implementation  in  two  sequenced  batches  by  the
responsible  Project Implementation  Units.

"Phase  1" means  the  first phase of the  sequenced  Project implementation  design  covering
Works  Contracts  (Packages  1,  2(a)  and  2(b)),  related  implementation  activities  and
related  technical  assistance  activities  by  the responsible  Project  Implementation  Units  for
each  of the  Phase  1 Project  Sites  as  identified  in  the  table  in  Section  1 of the Annex  to
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

53

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

59. 

"Phase  1 Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan  and  Monitoring  Plan"  or
"AMDAL"  means, collectively,  the impact  assessment, management  plan and  monitoring
plan  for  the  Phase  1 Project  Sites,  prepared  by  the  Borrower,  acting  through the  Central
the  Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental
Project  Implementation  Unit,  approved  by 
Management  Agency  on  March  30,  2010  and  disclosed  on  January  26,  2011,  and
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  referred  to  in  Section  I.D  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and
the  Project  Agreement,  setting  out  mitigation,
Section  I.C  of  the  Schedule 
to  eliminate  any  adverse
enhancement,  monitoring,  and 
environmental  impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented  under  the  Project,  offset them,  or
reduce  them to  acceptable  levels, or enhance  positive impacts,  consisting of:

institutional  measures 

to 

the Environmental  Impact Assessment,  dated March  30, 2010;

the Environmental  Management  Plan  (RKL), dated  March 30,  2010:

the Environmental  Monitoring  Plan  (RPL), dated  March  30, 2010;  and

all  schedules  and annexes  to  such assessments  and plans;

in  each  case  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the  Bank.

60. 

"Phase  1 Project Sites"  means  each of:

Ciliwung-Gunung  Sahari  Floodway  and  Waduk  Melati  (Kali  Gresik  and  Cideng
Hulu),  which  are DKI Project  Sites and comprise Package  1;

Cengkareng  Floodway  (including  sea  side),  which  is  a  DGWR  Project  Site  and
comprises  Package  2a; and

Lower  Sunter  Floodway,  which  is  a  DGWR  Project  Site  and  comprises  Package
2b;

each  as  identified  in  the  table  in  Section  1 of  the  Annex  to  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

61. 

62. 

"Phase  2"  means  the  second  phase  of  the  sequenced  Project  implementation  design
covering  Works  Contracts  (Packages  3, 4,  5,  6,  and  7),  related implementation  activities
and  related  technical  assistance activities by the responsible  Project Implementation  Units
for  each  of the Phase  2  Project  Sites  as identified  in  the table  in  Section  1 of the Annex
to  Schedule  2 to  this Agreement

"Phase  2  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  and  Monitoring  Plan"  means
the  environmental  impact  assessment,  environmental  management  plan,  environmental
monitoring  plan  and  all  schedules  and  annexes  to  such assessments,  plans  and reports,  to
be  prepared  by  the  Borrower,  approved  by  the  Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental
Management  Agency  and  the Bank prior to commencement  of activities  under Phase  2  of
the  Project  in  accordance  with  paragraph  5  of.  Section  I.D  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and  paragraph  2  of  Section  I.C  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement;

54

including  all  schedules  and  annexes  to  such  assessments,  plans  and  reports;  and  also
including  all  updates,  supplements,  amendments  or  changes  to  such  assessments,  plans
and  reports  as  they  may  be  from  time  to  time  approved  by  the  Jakarta  Provincial
Environmental  Management  Agency;  provided,  however  that  for  the  purposes  of  the
Project,  that  such  updates,  supplements,  amendments  or  changes  have  been  agreed  in
writing by the  Bank to  be acceptable.

63. 

"Phase  2 Project Sites"  means  each of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Cideng  Thamrin  Drain  (Round Road  drain), which  is  a DGHS  Project Site  and is
Package  3;

Sentiong-Sunter  Drain  (including  Ancol  Canal),  Waduk  Sunter  Utara  (outlet
drain),  Waduk  Sunter  Selatan,  and  Waduk  Sunter  Timur  III,  which  are  DKI
Project  Sites and comprise  Package 4;

Tanjungan  Drain  and  Lower  Angke  Drain,  which  are  DGHS  Project  Sites  and
comprise  Package  5;

West  Banjir  Canal  (sea  side)  and  Upper  Sunter  Floodway,  which  are  DGWR
Project Sites and  comprise Package  6; and

Grogol-Sekretaris  Drain,  Pakin-Kali  Besar-Jelakeng  Drain,  Krukut  Cideng Drain
and  Krukut  Lama  Drain,  which  are  DKI  Project  Sites  and  which  comprise
Package 7;

each  as  identified  in  the  table  in  Section  1 of the  Annex  to  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

64. 

65. 

66. 

67. 

"PJA"  means  PT  Pembangunan  Jaya  Ancol  Ltd.,  a  limited  liability  company  duly
incorporated  and  operating under  the laws  and regulations  of the Borrower  and  majority-
owned  by  DKI,  which  with  respect  to  the  Project,  is  responsible  for  the  construction,
maintenance  and  operation  of the  Ancol  CDF,  or  any  successor  thereto  which  has  been
agreed  in writing between  the Borrower and  the Bank.

"POSKO"  means,  with  respect  to  each  Project  Site,  the  office  to  be  established  by  the
Works  Contractor  for the  Project  Implementation  Unit  responsible  for  such  Project  Site
to,  among  other  things,  act  as  a  public  information  center  and  site-based  complaint
handling  unit in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  the  requirements  of
paragraph  5  of  Section  I.B  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  paragraph  3 of Section
L.A  of the Schedule  to the  Project Agreement.

"PP" means  a  Peraturan Pemerintah, a government  regulation  of the Borrower.

"Procurement  Committee"  means  each  committee  established  and  operating 
accordance  with paragraph  4 of Section  I.B of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

in

55

68. 

69. 

70. 

71. 

72. 

73. 

74. 

75. 

76. 

77. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and
IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May  2004  and  revised  in  October  2006  and  May
2010.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
October  28,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to
time in accordance  with  the provisions  of such paragraphs.

"Project  Affected  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of implementation  of  the
Project, has  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused
by:  (i)  the involuntary  taking  of land, resulting  in: (a)  relocation  or loss of shelter;  (b)  loss
of assets or access  to  assets; or (c)  loss of income  sources  or means  of livelihood,  whether
or not  such  person  must  move  to  another  location;  or  (ii)  the  involuntary  restriction  of
access  to legally  designated  parks  and protected  areas,  resulting  in adverse  impacts  on  the
livelihood  of such  person;  and  "Project Affected  Persons"  means,  collectively,  all  such
persons.

"Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  "PIU" means  each  of:  (i)  the  project  implementation
unit  established  by  DKI,  duly  authorized  and  operating  pursuant  to  regulations  of  the
Borrower,  or  any  successor  thereto;  (ii)  the  project  implementation  unit  established  by
DGWR,  duly  authorized  and  operating  pursuant  to  regulations  of the  Borrower,  or  any
successor  thereto;  and  (iii)  the  project  implementation  unit  established  by  DGHS,  duly
authorized  and  operating  pursuant  to  regulations  of  the  Borrower,  or  any  successor
to  in
thereto,  each  of  which  is  responsible  for  Project  implementation  as  referred 
paragraph  3  of Section I.B  of Schedule 2 to  the Loan Agreement.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta, or DKI,  which  is
the Project Implementing  Entity for the DKI Parts  of the Project.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual,  referred  to  in  Section  5.01  and
paragraph  1 of Section  I.C  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  paragraph  1 of  Section
I.B  of the  Schedule to the Project Agreement,  acceptable  to the  Bank, as the same may be
amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the  Borrower  (acting
through  the  CPMU  and  CPIU),  DKI  (with  respect  to  the  DKI  Parts  of the  Project  only)
and the  Bank, and such  term includes any  schedules  or annexes  to  such  manual.

"Project  Phases"  means,  collectively,  Phase  1 and  Phase 2.

"Project  Sites"  means,  collectively,  the  DKI  Project  Sites,  the  DGWR  Project  Sites  and
the DGHS  Project Sites.

"Project  Website"  means  the  website  or  the  portion  of  the  website  established  and
operated  by  MPW to  provide  information  to  the public  about  the Project,  www.pu.go.id,
or any  other website  acceptable  to the Borrower and  the Bank.

"Provincial  Environmental  Management  Agency  (BPLHD)"  means  Badan Pengendalian
level  environmental
Lingkungan  Hidup  Daerah  (BPLHD),  the  Borrower's 
management  agency  (including  provincial  and municipal  level), or any successor  thereto.

local 

56

78. 

79. 

80. 

81. 

82. 

83. 

84. 

85. 

86. 

87. 

"Regional  Office  of Ciliwung-Cisadane  River  Basin" means  Balai Besar Wilayah Sungai
Ciliwung-Cisadane, the  Regional  Office  of Ciliwung-Cisadane  River  Basin  of DGWR  in
which  the Project  Implementation  Unit for the DGWR Project  Sites under the MPW  Parts
of the Project is located, or any  successor  thereto.

"Resettlement  Plan"  or "RP"  means  each resettlement  plan for a Project  Site or a  Linked
Site,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of the
Resettlement  Policy  Framework  in  the event  of Involuntary  Resettlement,  setting  out the
arrangements  pertaining  to  land  acquisition  and  the  compensation,  resettlement,  and
rehabilitation  of Project Affected  Persons  in respect  of such  Project  Site or  Linked  Site,
as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the
Bank, and  such term includes  any schedules  or annexes  to such  plan.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework
for  the  Project,  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  on  April  25,  2011  and
acceptable  to  the Bank, disclosed  on July  8, 2011,  setting  out the arrangements  pertaining
to  land  acquisition  and  the  development  of  Resettlement  Plans  for  the  compensation,
resettlement,  and  rehabilitation  of Project  Affected  Persons  in  all  the  Project  Sites  and
Linked  Sites,  as  such  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time
with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Bank,  and
such terms includes  all schedules  and annexes  to such framework.

"RKL"  means  Rencana  Pengelolaan  Lingkungan,  the  Borrower's 
environmental  management  plan.

term  for  an

"RPL"  means  Rencana  Pemantauan  Lingkungan, 
environmental  monitoring  plan.

the  Borrower's 

term  for  an

"Sand  and  Laterite"  means  sand  from a  marine  source  and laterite  (red clay)  stipulated  in
the  AMDAL  portion  of the  Ancol  Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Management  Plan
and  Monitoring  Plan.

"Section"  means  each physical  section of each  Project Site,  mapped  and  identified  by the
Project  Implementation  Unit  responsible  for such  Site,  with  the  input of the  Supervision
Consultant,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  as  required  by  the  Project  Operations
Manual.

"Social  Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the Resettlement  Policy  Framework
and  each  Resettlement Plan  for each  Project Site  and each  Linked  Site  (if any)  for which
a  Resettlement  Plan  is  required  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework.

"Solid Waste"  means  materials  that are  dredged  from the  Project Sites but  are not suitable
as  Dredged  Materials  as  required  by  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and  are  not
Hazardous Materials.

"Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site"  means  the  existing Bantar  Gebang  landfill  in  Bekasi,  which
is  the  main  solid  waste  landfill  serving  Jakarta  and  operating  under  permit  West  Java
Governor  Permit  Number  593.82/SK/282.P/AGK/DA/86  as  revised  by  Permit  Number

57

88. 

89. 

90. 

91. 

92. 

93. 

593.82/  SK.1 16.P  /AGK/DA/26-1987,  as  the  same may  be  updated  from time  to  time, or
such  other  site lawfully operating  under the  laws  and  regulations  of the  Borrower  as may
be  agreed  in writing between  the Borrower  and  the Bank.

"Solid  Waste  Disposal  Site  Operator"  means  DKI,  or  such  other  operator  of the  Solid
Waste  Disposal Site  as may  be agreed  in  writing between the Borrower and  the Bank.

"Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in paragraph  2  of Section
I.A of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement  pursuant  to  which the  Borrower  shall make  a portion
of the proceeds  of the Loan available  to the Project Implementing  Entity.

"Supervision  Consultant"  means  the  consulting  firm  to  be hired  by  the  Central  Project
Implementation  Unit  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III of  Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement,  under  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  to  be  responsible  for
overall  supervision  and  coordination  of  the  Project,  including  compliance  by  the
Borrower  with  the  Environmental  Safeguards  Instruments  and  the  Social  Safeguards
Instruments,  and  joint  supervision  together  with  the  Jakarta  Provincial  Environmental
Management  Agency  of the Ancol  Environmental  Safeguards  Documents.

"Traffic  Management  Plan"  means  the  plan  for  each Project  Site,  to  be  adopted  by  the
Project  Implementation  Unit  and  included in  the Works  Contract, acceptable  to the  Bank,
setting  out  measures  for  mitigation  and  monitoring  of  any  adverse  environmental  and
social  impacts  arising  from  the  transport  of  Dredged  Materials,  as  the  same  may  be
modified  from time  to  time  with  the prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term
includes any  annexes  or schedules  to such plan.

"West  Java  Provincial  Environmental  Management  Agency"  means  the  Environmental
Management  Agency  (BPLHD)  at  the  province  and  municipal  level  for  West  Java
province.

"Works  Contract"  means  each  contract,  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  III of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  with respect  to  one  or  more  Project  Sites to
be  entered  into  by  the  PIU  responsible  for  such  Project  Site,  on  terms  and  conditions
acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  fully  reflecting  the  requirements  of the  Project  Operations
the  Social  Safeguards
Manual, 
Instruments.

the  Environmental  Safeguards 

Instruments  and 

94. 

"Works  Contractor"  means  each  firm  contracted  under  a  Works  Contract,  and  the
obligations  of  each  Work  Contractor  under  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  shall  apply
equally  to  any sub-contractor  authorized  under the relevant  Works Contract.

