I0MUMENTS!

LOAN  NUMBER  8062-AR

Loan Agreement

(Provincial  Public Health  Insurance Development  Project)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  as  of  :he  Signature  Date  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  the
and
Loan  Agreement), 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The  Borrower and the Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

between  ARGENTINE 

("Borrower") 

REPUBLIC 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute an  integral  par: of this  Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to 

this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  recuires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agr,eement,  the  amount  of  four  hundred  million  Dollars
($400,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the project  described  in  Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon  a  Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan, the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  dutermined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the Withdraw i Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates are  May  15  and November  15  in  each  year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  cf  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisions  of Schedule  3  Lo this  Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request any  of the following  Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all  or  any
portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from  a Variable  Rate  to a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa,  or  from  a  Variable
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed
Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  porticn  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar  on the Variable  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Ar:icle  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  t me  to time  for  the purpose  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  ts  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the Project.  To  this
end,  the Borrower  shall  carry  out the Project  through  MSN  with the assistance  of
the  corresponding  Umbrella
the  Participating  Provinces 
Agreements),  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the General
Conditions.

(as  provided 

in 

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except as the  Borrower and the  Bank shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower through
MSN  shall  ensure that the Project is  carried  out in accordance  with the provisions
of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

-3 -

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist  of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

that  the  PHIP  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely,  in  the
opinion  of the  Bank,  the  implementation,  objectives  and  results  of the
Project.

that  any  Participating  Province  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under  its  Umbrella  Agreement  and/or  any  of  its  Annual
Performance  Agreements,  and the  Borrower  shall  have  failed  to  exercise
its  remedies  undcr  such  agreements,  in  which  case  the  Bank  may  only
suspend 
in  part  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make
withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  for  expenditures 
incurred  as
payments to  or for the benefit of the relevant  Participating  Province(s).

in  who  e  or 

The  event  specified  in  Section  4.01  (a)  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is
continuing  for  a  period  of  60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been
given  by the Bank  to the Borrower.

The  event  specified  in  Section  4.01  (b)  of this  Agreement  occurs  for  all
Participating  Provinces  and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of  60  days  after
notice  of the event  for  the last  of the affected  Participating  Provinces  has
been  given by  the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.02. 

The Additional Events  of 4 cceleration  consist  of the following:

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists,  namely,  that  the  Borrower,
through  MSN,  has  duly  and  legally  established  the  PHIP  by  means  of the  PHIP
Ministerial  Resolution.

5.02.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is the date  ninety (90)  days after the  Signature  Date,  but in  no  case  later
than the eighteen  (18)  months  after the Bank's  approval  of the Loan which  expire
on October  26, 2012.

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is its  Minister of Economy and Public  Finance.

-4-

6.02.  The Borrower's Address  s:

Ministerio  de  Economia  y  Finanzas  Pablicas
Hip6lito  Yrigoyen  250
C1086  AAB,  Buenos  Air-s
Argentina

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

121942-AR 

(5411)  4349-8815

MINISTERIO
DE ECONOMIA 
Baires

6.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

[NTBAFRAD 
Washington.  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

-5  -

AGREED  at  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina,  on behalf of the  Bank  on  4 
on  behalf of the Borrower  on 

/V.

a 

1.J Z,D2, and

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

By

A  horized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

Authorize  Rpeettv

ersen

t a t ive

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of the  Project  are  to:  (a)  increase  utilization  and  quality  of key
institutional
health  services  for  the  uninsured  target  population;  and  (b)  improve 
management  by  strengthening  the  incentives  for  results  in  Participating  Provinces  and
among Authorized  Providers.

The Project consists  of the  following parts:

Part  A:  Supporting  Provincial  Public  Health  Insurance

1. 

Making  Capitation  Payments  for  PHIP  services  for  the  provision  of:  (a)  general
interventions  for  catastrophic
health  interventions;  and  (b)  selected  health 
diseases.

Part  B:  Institutional  and  Management  Strengthening  of the MSN  and MSPs

1 .

Improving the management  capacity  of the MSN  and the MSPs by:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

developing  information  systems,  instruments,  and  capacity to  manage  the
PHIP,  including  the  preparation  and  execution  of  annual  performance
agreements  between  MSN  and  MSPs,  and  between  MSPs  and
Authorized  Providers,  new  contracts  and  payment  systems,  outreach and
service  delivery  strategies  for  rural  and  indigenous  peoples  and  other
the  promotion  of  communities'
excluded  populations 
participation,  user  rights,  and  culturally  appropriate  services  for  the
inclusion  of indigenous  populations);

(including 

strengthening  the health workforce  skills of health  staff in rural  areas;

improving  epidemiological 
evaluation,  and  human  resource  management  systems;

information, 

financial  monitoring  and

streamlining  regulatory  and  planning  capacities  within  MSN  health
program  units and  PHIUs;

related
carrying  out  of  studies  on  health  system  financing  and 
mechanisms,  all  aimed  at  facilitating  policy-making  decisions  of MSN
and  MSPs;

improving  communication  strategies  for disseminating  information  about
health  plans,  changing behavior  among  health sector staff, and promoting
social  participation;  and

-7-

(g) 

supporting 
the  Jesign  and  establishment  of  an  observatory  of  the
Borrower's  health  system,  and  monitoring  of policies  producing  data  on
health  and  healih  care  of  users  (including  the  promotion  of  sector
knowledge  and 
the  fostering  of  transparency  for  improved  sector
governance  and accountability).

Supporting  management,  monitoring and  evaluation  capacities  of the PCU,  UFl-
S  and  PHIUs,  through  the  provision  of  technical  assistance  (including  the
financing  of Operating  Costs),  and the carrying out  of monitoring and  evaluation,
and financial  and technical  audits under the Project.

Part C:  Building Capacity  of the MSN  and MSPs to Deliver  Services

Strengthening  the  supply  capacity  of the  MSN  and the  MSPs  through,  inter alia:
(a)  the  provision  of equipment  (medical,  transportation,  information  technology
and  communications);  and  (b)  maintenance  services  needed  to  upgrade  and
expand  MSN  and  MSPs'  information  and  communication  systems  (excluding
civil  works).

2. 

1. 

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

For the  purposes  of assisting the  MSN  in  the  overall  management  of the  Project,
the Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall:

establish  a  Project coordination  unit  (the  PCU),  and  maintain  throughout
the  execution  of  the  Project,  within  the  MSN,  both  the  PCU  and  an
to  manage  Project
international  health 
implementation  with  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the
technical  experts  and  other
Bank  and  staffed  with  a  coordinator, 
personnel  in  number  and with qualifications  and  experience acceptable  to
the Bank; and

financing  unit 

(UFI-S) 

cause  the  Participating  Provinces,  through  the  Umbrella  Agreements,  to
establish and  mai itain throughout  the execution  of the Project,  within the
respective  MSPs.  provincial  health  insurance  units  (the  PHIUs),  with
functions  and  reEponsibilities  acceptable  to  both  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank  and  with  s:aff  in  number  and  with  qualifications  and  experience
acceptable  to both the  Borrower and  the Bank.

2. 

For  the  purposes  of  implementing  Part  A  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall,
through  MSN:

prepare, and thereafter  maintain  during the execution  of the Project,  a list
of  eligible  healthi  services  divided  in  three  sections  (the  Nomenclador
Unico -A,  the  Nomenclador Unico B,  and  selected  health  interventions
for  catastrophic  diseases),  to  be  provided  by  Authorized  Providers
acceptable  to the  Bank; and

develop,  in  agreement  with  the  Bank,  a  matrix  of health  indicator  goals
(the  Trazadoras Matrix)  in  number  and  substance  to  be  recorded  in  the
Operations  Mantal,  for  the  purposes  of monitoring  the  achievement  of
such  indicator  goals  and  transferring  the  Capitation  Payments  on  a
periodic  basis to  the  Participating  Provinces,  all under  terms of reference
acceptable  to the Bank.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

-9.-

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower,  through  MSN,  and  the  Bank  shall  jointly  review  at  least  once
every year, the Capitation  Payments  amount, the eligible  health  services  included
in  the  Nomenclador Unico -A,  the  Nomenclador Unico - B,  the  selected  health
interventions  for  catastrophic  diseases,  and  the  Trazadoras Matrix,  and  adjust
them  (in  number  and  substance)  as  necessary,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

Without  limitation  of the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an
operations  manual,  satisfa.tory  to  the  Bank  (the  Operations  Manual),  containing,
inter  alia:  (a)  the  terms  of  reference,  functions  and  responsibilities  for  the
personnel  of  the  PCU,  UFI-S  and  PHIUs  responsible  for  the  coordination,
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project;  (b)  the  criteria,  detailed  rules  and
procedures  for  the  Capitation  Payments;  (c)  procedures  for  procurement  of
goods,  Non-consultant  Services  and consultant's  services,  as  well as  for financial
management  and  audits  of  the  Project;  (d)  the  indicators  to  be  used  in  the
monitoring  and  evaluatioi  of  the  Project;  (e)  draft  models  for  the  Umbrella
Agreements  and  Annual  :erformance  Agreements;  (f)  detailed  criteria  for  the
conversion  of Eligible  Population  into  Enrolled  Population  (procedures,  activities
and  monitoring  indicators  for  the  enrollment  of said  population);  (g)  detailed
criteria  for  the  determination,  measurement  and  control  of Effective  Coverage;
(h)  the eligibility criteria  for the  incorporation  of Provinces  into  the PHIP; (i) the
procedures  for  the  revisicn  and  adjustment  of the  Nomenclador Unico-A,  the
Nomenclador  Unico-B,  the  selected  health 
for  catastrophic
diseases,  and  the  Trazadoras Matrix;  (j) the  flow  and  disbursement  arrangements
of  Project  funds;  (k)  the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  including
criteria  to  ensure  adequate  and  culturally  appropriate  access  by  indigenous
peoples to the  PHIP; and (1) the  GAAP.

interventions 

5. 

(a) 

The  Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall  establish  and  thereafter  maintain
operative  guidelin,s  (the  Provincial  Operative  Guidelines),  satisfactory
to the Bank, which  shall  contain  those  chapters  of the Operations  Manual
of  direct  concern  to  the  Participating  Provinces  and  their  role  in  the
implementation  of  the  Project.  Said  operative  guidelines  shall  be  an
annex  to  the  Umbrella  Agreement  to  be  entered 
the
Borrower, through  MSN,  and each of the Participating  Provinces.

into  between 

(b) 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  through  MSN
shall  not  amend,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the  Operations  Manual  or  the
Provincial  Operative  Guidelines,  or any provision  thereof.  In  case of any
conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  those  of  the
Operations  Manual  or 
the
provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

the  Provincial  Operative  Guidelines, 

- 10  -

6. 

For the  purposes of implementing  the Project the Borrower, through  MSN,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the 

forth 

setting 

technical, 

into  an  agreement 

(the  Umbrella  Agreement)  with  each
enter 
financial,
Participating  Province, 
administrative,  safeguard  and  fiduciary  aspects  of  the  national  and
provincial  participation  in the  implementation  and  use of funds under the
Project,  including,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  obligation  of  the  Participating
Provinces  to  make  available  the  Padr6n de  Obra Social Provincial to
MSN,  all  in  terms  and conditions  acceptable  to  MSN  and  the  Bank;  and
(ii)  the obligatior  of each Participating  Province  to provide  its  respective
counterpart  fund:ng,  necessary  for  the  effective  provision  of  the  health
services  financed  and  supported  by Capitation  Payments  under Part A  of
the  Project.

every  year,  starting  immediately  after the  Effective  Date  for the first  year
of the  Project,  and  on  January  1  thereafter,  enter  into  a  performance
agreement  (the  Annual  Performance  Agreement)  with  each  Participating
Province,  setting  forth  annual  targets  for  the  Trazadoras Matrix  and
to
enrollment  goals,  the  prices  to  be  paid  for  each  health  service 
the
Authorized  Providers  under 
Nomenclador Urico-B, the total  annual  cost of the  provision  of services
under  the Nomenclador Unico-A  and the Nomenclador Unico-B (as  well
as  their  respective  provincial  contribution  thereto),  work  programs  and
resource  requirements  for the  implementation  of the Project,  all  on  terms
and conditions  acceptable  to  the Bank;

the  Nomenclador  Unico-A  and 

the  provider 

cause  each  Participating  Province  (through  the  respective  Umbrella
Agreement)  to:  (i)  enter  into  an  agreement  (or other  formal arrangement
is  public)  with  an  Authorized  Provider  (the
when 
inter  alia,  the
Authorized  Prcvider  Agreement), 
Participating  Provinces'  payment  mechanisms  with  respect to  each of the
Authorized  Prov iders;  and  (ii)  ensure  that  payments  from  each  of  the
in
Participating  Provinces 
payment  of health  services  included  in the Nomenclador Unico-A and/or
Nomenclador Uico-B, and  in  no  case  said  payments  shall  include  the
payment  of salaries, supplies or any other production  factor;

the  Authorized  Providers  are  solely 

setting 

forth, 

to 

cause  each  Participating  Province,  when  applicable  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework  (through
the  respective  Umbrella  Agreement)  to  prepare  (if  determined  by  the
IPPF  and  the  Bank),  and  carry  out  the  applicable  Indigenous  Peoples
Plan  in  accordance  with  its terms;

(e) 

(f) 

cause  each  Participating  Province  to  take  all  necessary  actions  to  enable
the  Borrower  to  comply  with  its  pertinent  obligations  as  set  forth  under
this  Agreement,  including  those  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  General
Conditions,  the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and  the GAAP,  in  respect  of
the carrying  out  of the  Project  as  it  may  apply  to  the assistance  provided
by  the respective  Participating  Province;  and

(i) exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Umbrella
Agreement  and  each  Annual  Performance  Agreement  in  such  a  manner
as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan;  (ii)  cause  each  Participating
Province  to  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each
Authorized  Provider  Agreement  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the
interests  of the  Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish  the purposes  of
the  Loan;  and (iii)  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate,  repeal,  terminate,  waive or fail  to enforce  any Umbrella
Agreement  and/o:-  Annual  Performance  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.

7. 

(a) 

The  Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall  make  Capitation  Payments  available
to  a  Province,  only  after  said  Province  has  fulfilled  the  eligibility criteria
set  forth  in  the Operations  Manual  and  the  requirements  set  forth  in  this
Agreement  in  order  to become  a  Participating  Province.  Such  Capitation
Payments  shall be made  in the following manner:

(i) 

(ii) 

amount 

during  the  first  eight  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  the
Borrower,  through MSN,  shall  disburse  100%  of the Capitation
Payment 
the
Participating  Province  has  sent  to  MSN  the  registry  with  the
Enrolled  Population  as  of the  previous  month  and  the  MSN  has
certified  and  validated  said  registry,  and  certified  as  having
received  Effective Coverage;  and

every  month 

immediately 

after 

in 

thereafter,  said  Capitation  Payment  shall  be  made 
two
installments: 
(A)  60%  every  month, 
immediately  after  the
Participatiig  Province  has  sent to  the MSN  the monthly  registry
with  the  Enrolled  Population  as  described  in  (i)  above,  and
certified  as  having  received  Effective  Coverage;  and  (B)  the
remaining  40%  shall  be  disbursed  initially  every  four  months,
after  verification  of  the  Participating  Province's  performance
with  respect  to  the  Trazadoras Matrix,  as  provided 
in  the
Operations  Manual,  the  Provincial  Operative  Guidelines  and the
Annual  Performance  Agreements.  The  initial  4-month  period
may  be  modified  if necessary,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  both
the MSN  and  the Bank.

- 12  -

For the  purposes  of the  certification  and  validation  procedure  referred  to
in  (a)  above,  the Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall:  (i) appoint  under terms
of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  thereafter  maintain  during  the
execution  of  the  Project,  an  independent  technical  auditing  firm  with
qualifications  anc.  terms  of  contracting  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  (the
Technical  Auditor)  responsible  for  performing  bimonthly  (or  any  other
interval  acceptable  to  the  Bank)  audits  on  the  Trazadoras Matrix,  the
registry  of Enrolled  Population  and the  provision  of Effective  Coverage;
and  (ii)  use  as  support  documentation  the  Padr6n de  Obra  Social
Provincial, the  P ,dr6n  de  Obras Sociales Nacionales, and  the  reports
provided  by  the  Technical  Auditor,  all  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

In  case  a  Participating  Province  fails  to  achieve  a  determined  number of
health  indicator goals  included  in the  Trazadoras Matrix (as said  number
is  agreed  and  set  forth  in  the  Operations  Manual),  for three  consecutive
four-month  periods,  the Borrower,  through  MSN,  may  suspend  the  right
of  said  Participa:ing  Province  to  receive  funds  under  Part  A  of  the
Project.

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

8. 

The Borrower  shall through  MSN:

every year,  startir g immediately  after  the  Effective  Date  for the first  year
of  the  Project,  and  no  later  than  March  31  of  every  year  of  Project
implementation  thereafter,  furnish to  the  Bank  for  its approval,  an  annual
implementation  plan (the  Annual  Implementation  Plan), each  said  plan to
include,  inter alia: (i)  the  Project  activities  to  be  carried  out  by  the
the
Borrower, 
presentation  of each  said plan;  and  (ii) the  updated  Procurement  Plan for
each said  calendar  year; and

through  MSN,  during  the  calendar  year  following 

(b) 

thereafter  implement  each  said Annual  Implementation  Plan, as  approved
by the Bank, in  aiccordance  with  its terms.

9. 

For  purposes  of implementing  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  enact,  through
MSN,  a  ministerial  resolution  (the  "PHIP  Ministerial  Resolution")  setting  forth
the  technical,  financial,  administrative,  safeguard  and  fiduciary  roles,  within
MSN,  with  regard  to  the  scope  and  implementation  of the  Project,  under  terms
and conditions acceptable  to  the Bank.

- 13  -

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in

accordance  with  the provisions  of the GAAP  and the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project  Monitoring, Reporting and  Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  moni-or  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  tasis  of  Project  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Operations
Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester
(starting  with  the  calendar  semester  in  which the  Effective  Date  falls),  and  shall
be  furnished  to the  Bank  not  later than  forty  five  days after  the end  of the period
covered  by such report.

Financial  Management, Financial Reports  and Audits

The Borrower,  through  MSN,  shall  maintain or  cause to  be  maintained  a financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  MSN,  shall  prepare  and  furnish to the  Bank no  later than  forty  five days
after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the
Project covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to the Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  VSN,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period  of one fiscal  year of
the  Borrower.  The  audiled  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished  to the Bank not  later than  six months  after the end  of such  period.

The  Borrower  shall,  thro'gh  MSN,  not  later  than  sixty  days  after  the  Effective
Date,  create  and  thereafter  maintain  throughout  Project  implementation,  specific
national  budget  line  entries 
its  annual  budget  in  order  to  record  all
expenditures  and  Capitalion  Payments  (considered  transfers  under  each  such
annual  budget)  incurred dLiring  Project  implementation.

in 

-14-

Section  HI. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Goods  and  Non-consultant  Services.  All  goods  and  Non-consultant  Services
required  for Parts  B  and C  of the Project  and  to  be financed  out  of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred to  in  Section  I of  :he  Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the provisions of this  Section.

terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
Definitions.  The  capitalized 
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  bf review  by  the  Bank  of particular
in  the  Procurement
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Guidelines,  or Consultant  Cuidelines,  as the case  may  be.

Particular  Methods of Procurement of Goods and  Non-consultant  Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  Non-consultant  Services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on  the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding  which  may,  at  the
Borrower's  option be  subject to Domestic  Preference  (which  would be  applicable
to  the  procurement  of goods  only  under  International  Competitive  Bidding),  as
per paragraph  2.55  and 2.56  of the  Procurement  Guidelines..

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and  Non-consultant  Services.  The
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than  International
Competitive  Bidding,  whioh  may be  used for goods and Non-consultant  Services.
The  Procurement  Plan  she.11  specify  the circumstances  under  which  such methods
may be  used.

Procurement  Method

(a)  National Competitive  Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c)  Direct  Contracting

C. 

1I 

2. 

1 .

2. 

- 15  -

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  cf  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the circumstances  under which such  methods may be used.

Procurement Method

(a)  Least  Cost  Selection
(b)  Quality-based  Selection
(c) Consultants Qualifications  Selection
(d)  Single  Source  Selection
(e)  Fixed-Budget  Selectin
(f) Procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines
for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants
(g) Sole  Source  Procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants  set  forth
in  paragraph  5.4  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of  Individual
Consultants

D. 

Review  by  the Bank  of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those contracts  which shall  be subject to the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by the
Bank.

E. 

Special  Provisions

The  following  special  p:ocurement  provisions  shall  apply  to  procurement  of
goods, Non-consultant  Services and consultants'  services  under  the Project:

All  procurement  shall  be  done  using  standard  bidding  documents,  standard
requests  for  proposals,  tr odel  bid  evaluation  forms,  model  proposal  evaluation
forms  and  contract forms  previously  agreed  with the Bank.

for  National  Competitive  Bidding 

include
Bidding  documents 
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and
anticorruption  clauses  as  required  by 
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  those  that  give  the  Bank  audit  rights  over
bidders,  suppliers,  contra:tors,  sub-contractors,  consultants  and  sub-consultants.
These  clauses  shall  be  substantially  identical  to  those  pertaining  to  the  Bank's
standard  bidding documents  for International  Competitive  Bidding.

shall 

- 16  -

3. 

4. 

5. 

For consultant  services  contracts,  only  the types  of contracts  listed  in  Section  IV
of the Consultant  Guidelines may be used.
Foreign  and  local  contractors,  service  providers,  consultants  and  suppliers  shall
not  be  required:  (a)  to  register;  (b) to  establish  residence  in  Argentina;  or  (c)  to
enter  into  association  witi other  national  or  international  bidders  as  a  condition
for submitting bids  or pro3osals.
The  invitations  to  bid,  bidding  documents,  minutes  of bid  opening,  requests  for
expressions  of interest  anl notifications  of contract award  of all processes  aimed
at  the  procurement  of goods,  Non-consultant  Services  and  consultants'  services,
as  the  case  may  be,  shall  be  published  in  the  web  page  of  Oficina Nacional de
Contrataciones in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  The  bidding period  shall  be
counted  from  the  date  of  publication  of  the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  bidding
documents,  whichever is  later,  to the  date of bid opening.

6. 

The Borrower shall:

(a) 

(b) 

feed  the  Bank  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans  Execution  System
(SEPA)  within  31)  days  after the  Project  has been  approved  by the  Bank
with  the  information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan,  and
maintain  such  information  updated  along  Project  implementation  for
monitoring  purposes and reporting;  and
update the  Procurement  Plan  at least  twice  a year  or as needed  to  reflect
the  actual  Project  implementation  needs  and  progress  and  will  feed the
SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the  updated  Procurement  Plan
immediately thereafter.

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

Bidders  and consultants  shall  not  be  allowed  to  review  or  make  copies  of other
bidders'  bids  or consultants'  proposals,  as the  case may be.
After  the  public  openirg  of  bids  for  goods  and  Non-consultant  Services  and
consultants'  proposals,  information  relating to  the  examination,  clarification  and
evaluation  of  bids  and  recommendations  concerning  awards,  shall  not  be
disclosed to  bidders  or consultants,  or other persons  not officially  concerned  with
this  process  until  the  publication  of  contract  award  (except  as  provided  in
paragraphs  2.20  and 2.27  of the Consultant  Guidelines).
Witness  prices  shall  nol  be  used  as  a  parameter  for a  bid  evaluation  or contract
award.
A  two-envelope  system  of procurement  will  not  be  used  for the  procurement  of
goods or Non-consultant  Services  (other than consultants'  services).

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

A. 

1. 

- 17-

Contracts  for  goods  and  Non-consultant  Services  (other  than  consultants'
services)  shall  not  be  awarded  to  the  "most  convenient"  bid  but  to  the  one  that
has  been  determined  to  be  substantially  responsive  and  the  lowest  evaluated  bid,
provided  that  further  the  bidder  is  determined  to  be  qualified  to  perform  the
contract satisfactorily.

Inclusion  of the  bidder  in  lists  published by  specialized  magazines  will  not  be  an
acceptable  criterion  for determining  the qualification  of such bidder.

Compliance  with  the  International  Standards  Office  (ISO)  standards  and  any
other  equivalent  shall  not  be  required  as  a  condition  for  bid  qualification  and/or
contract  award.

The  lowest evaluated  bidder  shall  not  be  required  to  reduce  its  bid as  a condition
of contract award.

National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  would  be  modified  in  order  to  make
them  identical  to  International  Competitive  Bidding  procedures,  exception  made
of the  following  features:  (i) advertisement  may  be  limited  to  the  national  press
or  official  gazette,  and  the  Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones website;  (ii) the
Borrower's  currency may  be  used  for  the purposes  of bidding  and  payment;  (iii)
the  bidding  period  (from  the  date  of publication  of the  invitation  to  bid  or the
date  that  the  documents  are  available,  whichever  is  later,  to  the  date  of  bid
opening)  may  be  reduced  to  30  days;  and  (iv)  the  INCOTERM  clause  Delivery
Duty  Paid  (DDP)  may be  used  for the procurement  of goods.

Consultants shall  not  be required  to  submit bid  or performance  securities.

In  information  technology  procurement,  the Borrower's  criterion  for  determining
the eligibility of computer  manufacturers  established  in ETAP  will  not apply.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set
forth  in the table  in paragraph  2  below.

- 18  -

2. 

The  following table specifies  the categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount of the Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

50,000,000 

53,000,000 

85%

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods 

(2)  Consultants'  services 
(including  technical
audits), Non-consultant
Services and Training

(3)  Capitation  Payments 

under Part  A.1(a) of the
Project

275,000,000 

(4)  Capitation  Payments 

under Part A. 1(b)  of the 
Project

(5)  Operating  Costs 

(6)  Front-end  Fee 

15,000,000 

6,000,000 

1,000,000 

Under Nomenclador
Unico-A:

100%  until  December  31,
2012;  85%  until
December  31,  2013;
65% until December  31,
2014;  and  60% thereafter

Under Nomenclador
Unico-B, starting on
January  1, 2013  (as per
Section  B.  .(c) below):

85%  until December  31,
2013;  65% until
December  31,  2014;  and
60% thereafter

60%  as per  Section  B.1  (d)
below

100%

Amount payable pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General Conditions

(7)  Interest Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate  Collar 
premium 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

- 19  -

0 

400,000,000

Amount  due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

3. 

B. 

1. 

For  purposes  of  the  preceding  table  the  term  "Training"  means  expenditures
to  finance
incurred  by  MSN 
(other  than  those  for  consultants'  services) 
trainers  (if
transportation  costs  and  per-diem  of  trainees  and 
reasonable 
applicable)  and  rental  of training  facilities,  materials  and  equipment  under  the
Project.

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  prov:.sions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

for payments  made prior to the Signature  Date;

for expenditures  under Categories  (3)  and (4)  until the Technical  Auditor
has  been  contracted  under  terms of reference  acceptable  to the Bank;

in  respect  of Capitation  Payments
for  expenditures  inder  Category  (3) 
for  health  services  provided  under  Nomenclador  Unico-B  before  the
Closing  Date  of  the  Second  Provincial  Maternal-Child  Health  Project
(i.e.  December  31,  2012);  and

for  expenditures  under  Category  (4)  before  the  Closing  Date  of  the
Second  Provincial  Maternal-Child  Health  Project  (i.e.  December  31,
2012).

2. 

The Closing Date  is December  31,  2015.

- 20  -

SCHEDULE 3

Arnortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment Date,  such  repayable  amount to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each  May  15  and November  15

Beginning November  15,  2017 
through  May  15,  2037

On  November  15,  2037 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

2.44%

2.40%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have not  been  fully  withdrawn as  of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal Payment Date  shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  .3alance  as  of such date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Frincipal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

-21  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months prior  to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Paymen:  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the date of withdrawal.

4. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued on  or after the respective  Principal  Payment Date,  the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
withdrawals  made  after the adoption of such  billing  system.

longer  apply 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  :-ate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in more than  one Loan Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately to  the amount denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such amount.

- 22 -

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

(9) 

(10) 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidel  nes"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants", dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Annual  Implementation  Plan"  means  each  implementation  plan  referred  to  in
Section  1.8(a)  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Annual  Performance  Agreement"  means  each  agreement  referred  to  in  Section
I.6.(b)  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Arg$" means  Argentine  Peso, the  lawful currency  of the Borrower.

"Authorized  Provider"  means  any  public  or  private  health  facility  which  meets
the criteria  set forth  in the Operations  Manual.

"Authorized  Provider  Agreement"  means  each  agreement  referred  to  in  Section
1.6(c)  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Capitation  Payment"  means  a  financial  transfer  from  the  Borrower,  through
MSN,  to  the  Participating  Provinces:  (a)  under  Part  A. 1(a)  of the  Project  in  an
initial  amount  of Arg$7  per person  enrolled  in  the  PHIP of each  relevant  month;
and  (b)  under  Part  A. 1(b)  of the  Project  in  an  initial  amount  of Arg$2.50  per
person  enrolled  in  the  PHIP  of each  relevant  month  (as  this  amount  may  be
revised  from  time  to time  with  the prior  agreement  of the Bank),  to cover  a share
of the total  cost of health services  rendered  to Enrolled  Population  and  included
in  the Nomenclador Unico-A  and/or  in  the Nomenclador Unico-B, and  selected
health interventions  for catastrophic  diseases.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  published  by the  Bank  in  May  2004  and
revised  in  October  2006  and May  2010.

"Effective  Coverage"  means  the  provision  of  a  health  service  intervention  to  an
individual  within  the  Emolled  Population,  according  to  each  defined  age  group
and  in  a  given  period  of time,  which  services  are  included  in  the Nomenclador
Unico-A  and/or  the  Nomenclador  Unico-B,  or  within  the  selected  health
interventions  for  catastrophic  diseases,  and  billed  to  the  PHIP,  as  this  coverage
mechanism  is  further detEailed  in  the Operations  Manual.

-23-

(11) 

(12) 

(13) 

(14) 

(15) 

(16) 

(17) 

(18) 

(19) 

(20) 

"Eligible  Population"  means  all  uninsured  children  under  10  years  of  age,
uninsured  youths  from  10  to  19  years  old,  and  uninsured  women  from  20  to  64
years of age,  living within the territory  of a Participating  Province.

"Enrolled  Population"  means  the Eligible  Population  that has  voluntarily enrolled
in  the  PHIP in  a Participating  Province.

"GAAP"  means  Governance  and  Accountability  Action  Plan,  the  Borrower's
plan  dated  November  10,  2010  and  updated  February  23,  2010,  as agreed  with
the  Bank,  and  included  in  the  Operations  Manual,  setting  forth  measures  and
actions  to  be  taken  during  implementation  of  the  Project  with  respect  to
mitigation  of  corruption,  including  collusion,  forgery  and  fraud,  handling  of
complaints,  sanctions  and remedies.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General Conditions  for Loans",  dated  July 31,  2010.

"INCOTERM"  means  te  universally 
international  commercial 
Commerce  (ICC)  in  Paris,  France.

set  of  definitions  of
terms  developed  by  the  International  Chamber  of

recognized 

"Indigenous  Peoples  Plan"  or  "IPP"  means  any  of  the  plans  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  to  be  prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  and/or  the  pertinent
Participating  Province  wh:n  applicable  as  set  forth  in the Operations  Manual,  all
prepared  and  to  be  carried  out  following  the  requirements  of  the  Indigenous
Peoples Planning  Framework.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or  "IPPF"  means  the  Borrower's
framework,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (included  in  the  Operations  Manual),  dated
December  30,  2010  setting  forth  the  indigenous  peoples  policy  framework
applicable  to all the  activities to  be carried  out under  the Project and the basis  and
procedures  to  prepare  and  adopt  indigenous  peoples'  plans  or related  instruments
during Project implementa:ion.

"ISO"  means  International  Organization  for  Standardization,  an  international-
from  various  national
standard-setting  body  composed  of  representatives 
standards  organizations  which 
industrial  and
commercial  standards for  products.

issues  world-wide  proprietary 

"MSN"  means  Ministerio de  Salud de  la Naci6n,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of
Health.

"MSP"  means  Ministerio  de  Salud  Provincial (or 
Province),  each of the Borrower's  Participating  Provinces'  Ministries  of Health.

its  equivalent 

in  each

- 24  -

(21) 

(22) 

(23) 

(24) 

(25) 

(26) 

(27) 

(28) 

(29) 

(30) 

"Nomenclador Unico-A"  means  the  list  of eligible  health  services  referred  to  in
Section  1.2(a)  of  Schedulc  2  to  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Operations  Manual,
consisting  of selected  preventive  and  in-patient  health  interventions  for  children
of age 6 to 9; youths from  ige  10  to  19,  and  for women  of ages  20 to  64.

"Nomenclador Unico-B" means  the  list of eligible  health  services  referred  to  in
Section  1.2(a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Operations  Manual,
consisting  of preventive  and  in-patient  health  interventions  for  maternal  health
care and for children  under 6  years  of age.

"Non-consultant  Services"  means  services  which  will  be  bid  and  contracted  on
the  basis  of  performance  of  measurable  physical  outputs,  and  which  are  not
otherwise  covered by  any  other category  of Eligible  Expenditures.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  cost  of recurrent  expenditures  of MSN
in Project  implementation  such  as consumable  items,  utilities and  supplies, which
would  not have been  incurred  absent  the Project.

"Operations  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual  dated  March  10,  2011,
referred to  in  Section 1.4 cf Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"PadrMn de  Obra Social Provincial" means  each  of the  Participating  Provinces'
enrollment  databases  containing  information  regarding  individuals  participating
in the Province's  social health  insurance  scheme.

"Padrdn de Obras Sociales Nacionales" means  the  national  enrollment  database
consolidating  informatior.  regarding  individuals  participating  in  National  Social
Health  Insurance  Entities programs.
"Participating  Province"  means  any  Province  or the  Autonomous  City of Buenos
Aires  (Ciudad Aut6noma de Buenos Aires) that has  fulfilled  the requirements  of
this  Agreement  and  the  Operations  Manual  to  be  eligible  to  participate  and
receive  funds from  the Project.
"PCU" means the Project coordination  unit referred to in Section 1.1(a)  of Schedule
2  to this Agreement,  or any successor thereto  acceptable  to the Bank.
"PHIP"  means  Programa de  Desarrollo de  Seguros Puiblicos Provinciales de
Salud, the  Borrower's  Provincial  Development Public  Health  Insurance  Program,
in  the  PHIP  Ministerial  Resolution,  with  the  objective  of
as  set  forth 
to  be  provided
strengthening  the  coverage  and  quality  of  health  services 
throughout the Borrower's  territory.

- 25  -

(31) 

(32) 

(33) 

(34) 

(35) 

(36) 

(37) 

(38) 

(39) 

(40) 

(41) 

(42) 

(43) 

"PHIP  Ministerial  Resolution"  means  MSN's  resolution  referred  to  in  Section
I.A.9  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"PHIU"  means  any  of  the  Provincial  units  referred  to  in  Section  1.1(b)  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD
Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in
October 2006 and May 2010.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  February  23,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the same  shall  be
updated  from  time  to time  in  accordance  with the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Province"  means a political  subdivision  of the Borrower  as  per  Title Two  of the
Borrower's  Constitution  or  the  Autonomous  City  of  Buenos  Aires  (Ciudad
Aut6noma de Buenos Aires), and  the term  "Provinces"  means  all  of said  political
subdivisions.

"Provincial  Operative  Guidelines"  means  the  operative  guidelines  referred  to  in
Section 1.5.(a) of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Second  Provincial  Maternal-Child  Health  Project"  means  the  Project  supported
by  the  Loan  No.  7409-AR,  and  described  in  Schedule  I  to  the  Loan  agreement
entered  into between  the Borrower  and  the Bank on  May 9, 2007,  as  amended.

"SEPA"  means  the  Bank's  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans  Execution
System.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest  of the  two  dates  on  which  the  Borrower  and
the Bank  signed the  Loan Agreement  and  such  definition  applies  to all  references
to "the  date  of the Loan  Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

"Technical  Auditor"  meais  the  independent  auditing  firm  mentioned  in  Section
I.7(b)(i)  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"Trazadoras Matrix"  means  the  matrix  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank,  as  set  forth  in  the  Operations  Manual,  and  which  contains  the  health
indicator  goals referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2(b)  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"UFI-S"  means  MSN's  unit  referred  to  in  Section  1.1(a)  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any successor thereto  acceptable  to the Bank.

"Umbrella  Agreement"  means  each  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  1.6.(a)  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

