OCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8157-CN

Loan Agreement

(Integrated  Economic Development  of Small Towns (Gansu) Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
.AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

2 

,2012

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

, 2012,  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree  as follows:

4 
("Borrower") 

> f-  ? 
and 

.

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINTIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requ.res  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

in 

this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal 

The Bank  agrees to lend  :o  the Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to 
to  fifty  million  Dollars
($50,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon  a Conversion  of all or any portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by
the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The  Payment  Dates are June  15  and December  15  in  each year.

-2-

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set fbrth in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding,  or from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a
Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  -ause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and the  Project Agreement.

-3-

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is the  Minister of Finance.

5.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is

Ministry  of Finance
Sanlihe,  Xicheng District
Beijing  100820
People's  Republic  af China

Facsimile:

(86-10)  68  55  11 25

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.:20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People's  Republic  of China,  as  of the  day  and  year  first

above  written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:  4

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

By

By

,-5-

SCHEDULE  1

1'roject Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  public  infrastructure  and  services  to
contribute  to  sound  development  of  selected  small  towns  in  Gansu  Province  of  the
Borrower.

The Project consists  of the  following  parts:

Part A: 

Infrastructure Development

Strengthening  of  high  priority  pu'lic  infrastructure  in  selected  small  towns  in  Gansu
Province  through  the  implementation  of key  investment  subprojects  focusing  on,  inter
alia:  (a)  construction  or  rehabilitation  of  urban  and  rural  roads;  (b)  expansion  and
modernization  of irrigation  infrastructure;  and  (c)  development  of agricultural  markets,
commercial  infrastructure  and integrated  service centers.

Part B: 

Institutional Strengthenting and Capacity Enhancement

Improving  the  institutional  capacity  of Gansu  Province  to  manage  the  development  and
the  carrying  out  of  business
operation  of  modern  and  efficient 
development  activities  and  the  provision  of  support  services  through,  inter  alia, (a)
carrying  out  of policy,  technology  and  marketing  studies; 
(b)  carrying  out  of training,
extension  services,  workshops  and  study  tours;  and  (c)  acquisition  of  equipment  for
testing,  grading  and  real-time  monitoring  of the  quality  and  operation  of  infrastructure
facilities  developed  under  Part A  of the  Project.

infrastructure, 

Part C:  Project Management  and Monitoring and Evaluation

Supporting  the  overall  development  of  Gansu  Province  to  coordinate  and  manage  the
the  establishment  and  operation  of  a
implementation  of  the  Project, 
management  information,  monitoring  and  evaluation system.

including 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Financing and Institutional

A. 

Financing Arrangements

The  Borrower  shall  make  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time to  the  Categories  as  set forth in
the table  in  Section  IV  of this Schedule,  and  shall  cause  such  Entity to  make  said
proceeds  available  to  the  Project  Towns  as  needed  for  their  respective  activities
under  the  Project,  all  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
including the  following principal  terms:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  principal  amount  shall  be  made  available  in  Dollars  or  any  other
Currency  as  the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  (such  principal  amount  determined  on the  date,  or
respective  dates,  of withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the  value  of
the  currency  or currencies  so withdrawn).

The principal  amount  so made  available  (including  the  amount  of the  fee
paid  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  this  Agreement  and  any  Premium  for
to
Interest  Rate  Caps  or 
Section  2.07(c)  of  this  Agreement  and  Section  4.05(c)  of the  General
Conditions)  shall  be  recovered  over  a  period  of twenty-five  (25)  years,
inclusive of a grace  period of five  (5) years.

Interest  Rate  Collars  paid  pursuant 

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
Section 2.04  of this Agreement.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation

Project  Reports

A. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate,  and  shall  cause  each  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the  Project  and
prepare  Project Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the

-7-

General  Conditions  and  or  the  basis  of the  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Annex  of
the  Schedule  to  the  respective  Project  Agreement.  Each  Project  Report  shall
cover the  period  of one  (1) calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,
beginning  on February  15,  2013.

The  Borrower  shall  review  with  the  Bank  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
(mid-term  review),  not  later  than  December  31,  2014,  the  progress  made  in the
implementation  of the Project.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the  provision  of Part A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall
cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank as part
of the  Progress  Report  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each
calendar semester,  interim  anaudited  financial  reports for the  Project covering  the
semester,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  its  Financial
Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09(b)  of the
General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the
period  of one  (1) fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements
for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank not  later  than  six  (6)  months
after the end  of such  perioc..

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Section  HI. 

Procurement

A. 

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
I. 
consulting  services  required  for  the  Project and  to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the
Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project and  to
2. 
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,
and with the provisions  of this Seci ion.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
3. 
particular  procurement  methods or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank of particular  contracts

-8-

refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of the  Procurement
Guidelines,  or  Sections  II, III,  IV  and  V of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  case may  be.

B. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding. Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those contracts  specified in the  Procurement  Plan.

Procurement Methods

(a) 

National Competitive  Bidding:

In  addition,  the  !rocedures  to  be  followed  for  National  Competitive
Bidding shall  be those set forth  in the Law  on Tendering  and  Bidding  of
the  People's  Republic  of  China  promulgated  by  Order  No.21  of  the
President  of the  People's  Republic  of China  on  August  30,  1999,  with
the
required 
the 
Procurement  Guidelines:

following  clarifications 

for  compliance  with 

(i) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  country,
except  for  civil  works  contracts  that  are  estimated  to  cost  less
than  $2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods  contracts  that
are  estimated  to  cost less than  $300,000  equivalent  each, which
may  be  advertised  in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such
advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective
bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and
In  any  event,  a  minimum
prepare  and  submit  their  responses. 
of thirty 430)  days  shall be  given to  bidders  between the  date of
for
advertisement 
the  advertisement  and  bidding
submission  of  bids,  and 
documents shall  specify the  deadline  for such  submission.

in  such  newspaper  and 

the  deadline 

(ii) 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of
evaluating  the  qualification  of each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in
detail in the  bidding documents.

-9-

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(ix) 

(x) 

All  bidders  that  meet the  qualification  criteria set out in the pre-
qualification  document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there  shall
be no  limit on the  number of pre-qualified  bidders.

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount
sufficient  to  protect  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  (Gansu  Province),  as the  case  maybe,  in  case  of breach
of  contract  by the  contractor,  and  the  bidding  documents  shall
specify the required  form  and  amount  of such  security.

Bidders  will  be  allowed  to  submit  bids  by  mail  or by  hand. The
time  for cpening  of all bids  shall be the  same  as the  deadline  for
receipt  of such  bids.

All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be  offered
an  opporlunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their
representatives)  at the time  of bid opening,  but bidders  shall not
be  required to be present  at the bid opening.

(vii)  All  bid  cvaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding
documents  and  quantified  in monetary  terms  or expressed  in the
form  of pass/fail requirements.

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price
falls  outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or
bracket  of  average  bids  established  by  the  Borrower  or  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  (Gansu  Province),  as  the  case
maybe.

to 

the 

lowest  evaluated
Each  contract  shall  be  awarded 
responsive  bidder,  that is,  the  bidder who  meets  the  appropriate
standards  of capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding
documenlts;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The
winning bidder shall not be required,  as a  condition of award, to
undertake  responsibilities  for work  not  stipulated in the  bidding
to  modify  the  bid  as  originally
documen-s  or  otherwise 
submitted.

Each  cor tract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall
provide that the  suppliers and  contractors  shall permit  the Bank,
at  its  request,  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to
the  performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and
records a idited  by auditors  appointed  by  the Bank.

- 10  -

(xi) 

(xii) 

Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower's  country  may
be  permitted  to  bid or  submit  a proposal  of goods and  works  if
they  can  establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially
autonomcus;  (B)  operate  under commercial  law; and  (C)  are not
a dependc nt agency  of the  agency conducting  the  procurement.

Re-bidding  should not be  allowed  solely because  the  number  of
bids  is  less  than three  (3) and,  rejection  of all  bids or  rebidding
the  Bank's  prior  written
shall  no: 
concurrer ce.

take  place  without 

(xiii)  The  resu'ts  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be
published  in  the  national  press  or  provincial  press  or  official
gazette  or  a  free  and  open  access  website  and  shall  identify  the
name  anc  offered  price  of the  winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the
duration  ind summary  scope  of the awarded  contract.

(xiv)  The  Project Implementing  Entity (Gansu  Province)  shall have  in

place  provisions  for bidders  to protest.

(b) 

Shopping

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants' Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall specify the  circumstances  under which  such  methods  may be  used.

Procurement Methods

Quality-Based  Selection

(a) 

(b) 
(c) 

(d) 

Selection Based  cn  Consultants'  Qualifications
Procedures  set foith  in paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant
Guidelines for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants
Single-Source  Selection

- 11 -

3. 

The  shortlist  of consultants  for  services  estimated  to  cost  less  than  an  amount
established  by  the  Bank  fi-om  time  to  time  may  comprise  entirely  of  national
consultants.

D. 

Review  by the World  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shal  set forth those contracts  which shall  be  subject to  the
ther  contracts  shall be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All 
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall
specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the
Bank  and  as made  applicable  to  this Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),  to
finance:  (a)  the  Front-end  Fee  in accordance  with  Section  2.07(b)  of the  General
Conditions;  (b)  if applicable,  the Premium  for Interest  Rate  Caps  or Interest  Rate
Collars  in  accordance  with  Section  2.07(c)  of  the  General  Conditions;  and
(c)  other Eligible  Expenditures  as set forth  in the table  in paragraph  2 below.

2. 

The following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category.

- 12  -

Amount of the  Loan
Allocated 
(Expressed  in 
Dollars) 

% of Expenditures to
be Financed
(Inclusive  of Taxes)

41,366,000 

83%

6,940,000 

100%

1,569,000 

100%

1. 

2. 

3. 

Category 

Works for  Sub-Projects 
under  Part A  of the
Project

Goods and  equipment 
for  Sub-projects  under
Parts A,  B  and  C  of the
Project

Consultants'  Services 
and  Training under
Parts  B  and  C  of the
Project

4. 

Front-end  Fee 

125,000  Amount payable

pursuant  to  Section 2.03
of this Agreement  in
accordance  with  Section
2.07(b)  of the  General
Conditions

0  Amount due pursuant  to
Section  2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Collar 
Premium 

5. 

Total 

B. 

1. 

2. 

50,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures  and Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  in respect of payments  made prior  to the date  of this Agreement.

The Closing  Date  is  December  31,  2017.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  'rincipal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by the  Bank by  multiplying:

Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of the  first Principal Payment  Date;  by

the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable
amount  to  be adjusted,  as necessary, to  deduct any  amounts referred  to in
paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which a  Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each  June  15  and  December  15
beginning  June  15,  2017,  through 
December  15,  2036

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a  Percentage)

2.50%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  ar  ounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  su zh  withdrawal  by  a fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the  original  Install -nent Share specified  in the  table  in paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for  said  'rincipal  Payment Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  t0  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion applies.

- 14  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn  within two  (2)  calendar  months  prior to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating
the  principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date, be  treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date commencing  with  the  second Principal  Payment
Date  following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on or after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the
longer  apply  to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
withdrawals  made after  the  adoption of such  billing system.

shall  no 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of al'  or  any  portion of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in more than  one Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

- 15  -

Schedule  4

The  List of Project  Town

Province 
Gansu 

(2)  Counties/Cities/Districts 

(1)  Project  Towns 
Dongwan  Town 
Hongshui Town 
Ganguan  Town 
Zaojiao Town 
Meichuan  Town 
Wenfeng  Town 
Shizi Town 
Dongzhi Town 
Dangzhai  Town 
Hongwansi  Town 
Huahai Town 
Qili  Town 

Jingyuan  County 
Jingtai  County
Maiji  District 
Qinzhou  District
Min  County 
Longxi  County
Lingtai  County 
Xifeng  District 
Ganzhou District 
Sunan County
Yumen  City 
Dunhuang  City.

(3)  Cities
Baiyin  City

Tianshui  City

Dingxi  City

Pingliang  City
Qingyang  City
Zhangye  City

Jiuquan  City

- 16  -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and
Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this
Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on account  of the  execution  of the  Project,
have  experienced  or would  experience direct economic  and social  impacts  caused by:
(a)  the  involuntary  taking  of  land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss  of  shelter;
loss  of  assets  or  access  tc,  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or  means  of
(ii) 
livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  persons  must  move  to  another  location;  or  (b)  the
involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,
resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  persons;  and  a  "Displaced
Person"  means  any of such  Displaced  Persons.

"Environmental  Code  of  Practice"  and  the  acronym  "ECOP"  mean  the  code  of
practice  prepared  and  adopted  by  Gansu  dated  December  28,  2011,  for  each  type  of
infrastructure  development  Sub-project  to  be  carried  out by  Gansu  under the  Project
and  setting  forth,  inter  alia,  the  procedures,  policies  and  mechanisms  for identifying
the  planning,  design,
and  mitigating  adverse  environmental 
including,  measures  for
preparation  and 
avoidance  of or  mitigation  against  adverse  impacts  on  natural  habitats  or  physical
cultural  resources  as  well  as  arrangements  for  reporting  and  monitoring  as  the  same
may  be revised  from time to time with the prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank.

implementation  of  the  Sub-projects, 

impacts  during 

"Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plan"  and the  acronym  "EMDP"  mean  the plan  dated
December  28,  2011,  preparec  and  adopted  by  Gansu  for  each  Sub-project  to  be
carried  out  in  Hongwansi  towNnship  with  the  objective  of  improving  economic  and
social  development  while  preserving  the  culture,  customs  and  traditions  of  ethnic
minorities affected by the  sub- projects,  as  the  same  may  be revised  from  time  to time
with the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all attachments
and  annexes  supplemental  to  such  Plan.

"Financial  Management  Manual"  means  individually  each  Financial  Management
Manual  prepared  and  adopted  by  Gansu dated  February  10,  2012,  for the  Project  and
which  sets out,  inter alia, the  policies,  procedures  and  guidelines  for  establishing  and

- 17  -

maintaining  a  financial  management  system to  be  implemented  by  Gansu,  in carrying
out  the  Project,  including  intemal  controls,  accounting  procedures,  fund  and  asset
management,  withdrawal  applt'cation  procedures,  financial  reporting,  and  auditing
arrangements  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
includes  all  attachments  and  annexes
agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  such  term 
supplemental  to  such  Manual.

"Gansu"  means  the  Borrower's Province  of Gansu,  or any  successor  thereto.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and

"Pest  Management  Plan"  and  the  acronym  "PMP"  mean  the  Pest  Management  Plan
prepared  and  adopted  by  Gansu dated  December  28,  2011,  and to  be  implemented  or
caused  to  be  implemented  by  Gansu  for  improving  integrated  pest  management
activities  during  the  design,  construction  and  operation  of  the  Project,  including
environmental,  occupational  ard  safety  risk  assessment,  capacity building,  grievance
handling  mechanisms,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements,  as  such  plan
may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with the  prior written  approval  of the  Bank;  and
such Plan  includes all  attachments  and  annexes  supplemental  to  such plan.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  undet  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World
Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Manual"  means  the  Manual  prepared  and  adopted  by  Gansu  dated
April  6,  2012,  which  sets  out,  inter  alia, the  detailed  policies,  procedures  and
the
arrangements 
documents  to  be  prepared,  the  reviews  to  be  carried  out, the  selection  procedures  to
be  followed, and  supervision  and  dispute resolution  mechanisms.

for  carrying  cut  procurement  under 

the  Project, 

including 

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Procurement  Plan  of Gansu,  dated  April  6, 2012,  for
the  Project,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be updated  from  time
to time  in accordance  with the  :rovisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  Project Agreement  for the  Project  between the  Bank
and  Gansu  dated  the  same  cate  as  this  Agreement,  as  such  agreement  may  be
amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  approval  of the  Bank,  and  such
includes  all  appendices,  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  said
term 
Agreement.

"Project  Counties"  means  collectively  the  administratively managed  areas  referred  to
as Counties,  Cities or  Districts  located  within the  Cities  of Gansu Province  set out in
columns  2  and 3 respectively  in Schedule  4 to  this Agreement that have been  selected

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

- 18  -

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

for  participation  in  the  Project;  and  "Project  County"  means  individually  any  such
County,  City or District.

"Project  Implementation  Plan"  means  the  Plan prepared  and  adopted by  Gansu  dated
March  20,  2012,  and to  be  implemented  or  caused  to  be  implemented  by  Gansu for
in
the  Project  and  which  sets  out  the  criteria,  procedures  and  arrangements 
accordance  with  which  the  activities  under  the  Project  will  be  screened,  selected,
appraised,  approved,  implemer.ted,  operated,  maintained,  supervised,  monitored  and
evaluated,  and  includes,  inter alia, the  detailed  arrangements  for applying, as the case
may  be,  the  Financial  Manage:nent  Manual,  the  Procurement  Manual,  the  RAP,  the
ECOP,  the  PMP,  the  Procurement  Plan  and  the  EMDP  in  implementing  the  Project,
as each such  Plan  may be  amended  from time to time with the  prior written  approval
of  the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  appendices,  schedules  and  agreements
supplemental  to  each  said  Plan,

"Project  Implementing  Entity" and  "Project Province"  mean Gansu.

"Project  Towns"  means  collectively  the  Towns  located  in  the  Project  Counties  of
Gansu  and  set  out in  column  I of Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement  which  have  been
selected  by  them  in  accordance  with  criteria  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank
for carrying  out  Sub-projects  to  be  financed  from  the proceeds  of the  Loan,  all  as  set
out in the  Project Implementation  Plan.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  and  the  acronym  "RAP"  mean  the  Plan  prepared  and
adopted  by Gansu  dated  December  28,  2011,  and  to be  implemented  or caused  to  be
implemented  by  Gansu  in  the  context  of carrying  out the  Project,  such  plan  setting
out,  inter  alia:  (a)  the  principles  and  procedures  governing  the  acquisition  of  land
required  for  said  activities;  (b)  the  principles,  actions  and  measures  for the  payment
of compensation  to  Displacec  Persons  under  the  Project  and  for  their  resettlement
to  ensure
and  rehabilitation;  and  (c) 
compliance  with  said  plan,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the
agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all  attachments  and  annexes
supplemental  to each  such Pla-i.

reporting  and  monitoring  arrangements 

"Sub-project"  means  each  aclivity  to  be  prepared  and  carried  out  under  Parts  A,  B
and  C of the Project as set out in the Project  Implementation  Plan.

"Training"  means  for  purposes  of Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to the  Loan  Agreement,
the  reasonable  cost  of travel,  lodging  and  allowances  of trainees  attending  training,
study  tours,  workshops  and  seminars,  the  cost of organizing  workshops,  training  and
seminars,  and the  cost  of del vering  training  (excluding  consultants  fees)  including,
rental  of training  space and training  equipment and  other  logistical costs,  all as yearly
budgeted  and  approved  by the  Provincial  Finance  Department  of Gansu, on behalf of
the Borrower,  and the  Bank.

