OFFICIAL

CTF LOAN  NUMBER  TF080859-VN

Clean  Technology  Fund
Loan Agreement

(Distribution  Efficiency  Project)

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF VIET3M

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  /
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION

acting as an implementing  entity of the Clean Technology  Fund

Dated  Y0 VVri b 

,2012

CTF LOAN  NUMBER  TF080859 VN

CLEAN  TECHNOLOGY  FUND  LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  PIY(irlb 

, 2012,  entered  into  between:
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  VIETNAM  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
INTERNATIONAL
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  ("World  Bank"),  acting  not  in  its individual  capacity
implementing  entity  of  the  Clean  Technology
in 
but  solely 
Fund ("CTF").

its  capacity  as  an 

DEVELOPMENT 

AND 

/ 

WHEREAS:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

the  Borrower  has  requested  the  World  Bank  to  provide  assistance
towards  the  financing  of the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  the
Financing 
following
paragraph)  ("Project");

Agreement 

defined 

the 

(as 

in 

by  an  agreement  of  even  date  herewith  between  the  Borrower  and  the
World  Bank  ("3inancing  Agreement"),  the  World  Bank  has  agreed  to
provide  such  assistance  in  an  amount  equivalent  to two  hundred  ninety-
Special  Drawing
seven 
seven  millior. 
Rights  (SDR  297,700,000)  ("Financing");  and

thousand 

hundred 

by  an  agreemert  of even  date  herewith  between  the  Borrower  and  the
World  Bank, ac:ing  as administrator  of the  Australian  Trust Fund  for  the
in  Vietnam  ("Australian
AusAID-World  Bank  Strategic  Partnership 
Trust  Fund  for  the  AusAID-World  Bank  Strategic  Partnership 
in
Vietnam  Grant  Agreement"),  the  World  Bank  intends  to  provide  such
assistance  in an  amount of seven million six  hundred  thousand Australian
Dollars (AU$7,600,000)  ("Australian  Trust  Fund  for the  AusAID-World
Bank Strategic  Partnership  in Vietnam Grant");  and

NOW the  Borrower  and the  World  Bank hereby agree  as follows:

Article  I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  Standard  Conditions or  in
the Appendix  to  this Agreement.

the  capitalized  terms  used 

-2-

Article  II
Loan

2.01. 

The  World  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and  conditions  set
the  amount  of  thirty  million
forth  or  referred 
Dollars ($30,000,000)  ("Loan"), to assist in financing the  Project.

this  Agreement, 

to 

in 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  I to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Loan  is funded  out of  :he resources  made  available  to the World  Bank as an
implementing  entity of the  CTF.  In accordance  with  Section  3.02  of the  Standard
Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement),  the  World  Bank's
payment  obligations  in connection  with  this Agreement  are  limited  to the amount  of
funds  made  available  to  it  from  the  CTF  trust  fund,  and  the  Borrower's  right  to
withdraw  the Loan  proceeds  is  subject to the availability  of such funds.

2.04.  The  Management  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Section  4.01  (a)  of
the  Standard  Conditions  shall  be  equal  to  forty-five  one-hundredths  of  one
percent (0.45%) of the  Loan.

:2.05. 

The  Service  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  on  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
shall  be equal to  three-four:hs  of one  percent (3/4  of 1%)  per  annum.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are March  I and  September  1 in each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
repayment  schedule  set  forth in  Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

The  Payment Currency  is  trie Dollar.

Article III
The Project

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Power  Corporations'  Respective  Parts  of the
Project  to  be  carried  out by  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  in  accordance  with
11  of  the  Standard  Conditions  and  the  Project
the  provisions  of  Articl. 
Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower
shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  I to  this Agreement.

-3-

Article IV
Additional  Remedies

4.01. 

The Additional  Events of Suspension  consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

any  of the  Project  Implementing  Entities'  Legislation  has  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and
adversely 
the  ability  of  any  of  the  relevant  Project  Implementing
Entity(ies)  to  perform  any  of  its  (their)  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement;  and

the  Borrower  has  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the
Financing  Agreement  or  the  Australian  Trust  Fund  for  the  AusAID-
World  Bank  Strategic  Partnership  in  Vietnam  Grant Agreement.

4.02.  The  deadline  for  the  effectiveness  of the  Australian  Trust  Fund  for the  AusAID-
World  Bank  Strategic  Partnership  in  Vietnam  Grant  Agreement  is  one  (1)  year
after the  Effective  Date.

4.03. 

The Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the
event  specified  in  Section 4.01  (a)  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for
a  period  of thirty  (30)  days  after notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  World
Bank  to the  Borrower.

Article  V
Effectiveness;  Termination

5.01.  The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

the  Subsidiary  Agreements  have  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the
Borrower and  the Power  Corporations;  and

the  Financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all
conditions  precedent  to  its  effectiveness  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of
this  Agreement)  have been  fulfilled.

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matters  consist  of the following:

the  Subsidiary  Agreements  have  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the
Borrower  and  the  Power  Corporations  and  are  legally  binding  upon  the
their
Borrower  and 
respective  terms; and

the  Power  Corporations 

in  accordance  with 

-4-

(b) 

the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  has  been  duly  approved  by  the
Borrower  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entities  in accordance  with its terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

Article  VI
Borrower's Representative;  Addresses

,5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  referred  to  in  Section  10.02  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is the  Governor  :r a  Deputy Governor of State  Bank of Vietnam.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of the  Standard  Conditions
is:

State Bank of Vietnam
49 L  Thdi  To
Hanoi
Vietnam

Facsimile:

84-4-3825-0612

,5.03.  The  World  Bank's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of  the  Standard

Conditions  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development  /  International
Development  Association
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD /
INDEVAS 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423  (MCI)  or 
64145  (MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Hanoi,  Vietnam,  as  of the  day  and  year  first above

written.

SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF VIETNAM

-5-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

fr-tAt4L\ 

YVA\ 5iKL

Title:  6-6tuYo 

Mon

c4  V(-raho

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FQ,
RECONSTRUCTION  ANDVELOPMENT  /
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
implementing  entity  of  the  Clean
acting  as 
Technology  Fund

an 

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

iDy c 

~C

Title:  C'o_n  n4 

rebv

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and Other Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

Ministry  of Industry  and Trade

The  Borrower 
for  overall  Project  coordination,
implementation,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  through  the  Ministry  of Industry
and  Trade.

responsible 

shall  be 

1B. 

Subsidiary  Agreements

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out of the  Power  Corporations'  Respective  Parts  of the
Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  part  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to
each  of  the  Power  Corporations  under  subsidiary  agreements  between  the
Borrower  and  the  Power  Corporations,  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by
the World  Bank,  which  shall  include the  following  ("Subsidiary  Agreements"):

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  Power  Corporations'  respective  portions  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  made available  under the  Subsidiary  Agreements  shall  be  made
available  on terms  not less  onerous  than  those on  which the  Loan  is  made
available  to  the  Borrower  and  in  accordance  with  the  Borrower's  on-
lending  procedures  and  policies;

the  obligation  of the  Power  Corporations  to  carry  out  their  Respective
Parts  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  loan  proceeds  other
than  the  Borrower;

the  obligation  of the  Power  Corporations  to  carry  out  their  Respective
Parts  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Project
Operations  Manual  and  the  Safeguards  Instruments,  and  without  any
right  or  authority,  except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in
writing,  to  assign,  Emend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  assigned,
amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  the  aforementioned,  or  any  provision
thereof;

the  obligation  of  tbe  Power  Corporations  to  (i)  maintain  a  financial
management  systerr  and  prepare  financial  statements  in  accordance  with
consistently  applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,
in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations.  and  financial
both 

-7-

including 

condition  of  said  Power  Corporations, 
the  operations,
resources,  and  expenditures  related  to  their  Respective  Parts  of  the
Project;  and  (ii)  have  such  statements  audited  by  independent  auditors
acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  and  furnish  such
audited  financial  statements  to  the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  II.C.3  of the  Schedule  to  the
Project  Agreement  and  make  them  publicly available  in  a timely  fashion
and  in  a manner  acceptable  to the  World  Bank;  and

(e) 

the  obligation  of the  Power Corporations  to  carry  out procurement  of the
goods,  works,  and  services  required  for  their  Respective  Parts  of  the
Project  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  III  of this  Schedule,
as said  provisions  tray  be  further elaborated  in the  Procurement  Plan.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreements  in  such
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Subsidiary
Agreements  or any of the  pr3visions  thereof.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

1). 

Project  Operations Manual

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  Project
Operations  Manual;  and

except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit 
to  be  assigned,  amended,
abrogated,  or waived,  the aforementioned,  or any  provision thereof.

2. 

In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  the  Project  Operations
Manual  and those  of this Agreement,  the  latter shall  govern.

E. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Safeguards  Instruments,  and,  except  as  the  World  Bank  shall
otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or

-8-

waive,  or  permit 
aforementioned,  or any  provision thereof.

to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived, 

the

2. 

3. 

In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  any  of  the  Safeguards
Instruments  and those  of this  Agreement,  the  latter shall  govern.

Without limitation  upon its other reporting obligations  under  Section  II.A. 1 (a)  of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  take all  measures  necessary to  regularly  collect,
compile,  and  submit  to  1he  World  Bank,  as  part  of  the  Project  Reports,
information  on  the  status  of  compliance  with  the  Safeguards  Instruments,
providing  details  of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

measures taken  in furtherance  of said  Instruments;

conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to  interfere  with  the
smooth  implementation  of said Instruments;  and

remedial  measures 
conditions.

taken  or  required  to  be  taken  to  address  such

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports; Completion  Report

A. 

1 

(a) 

in  accordance  with 

The  Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate the  progress  of the  Project  and
the  provisions  of
prepare  Project  Reports 
Section 2.06  of the Standard  Conditions and  on the basis  of the  indicators
set  forth  below  in  sub-paragraph  (b)  of this  paragraph  and  the  Project
pursuant  '  to
Reports 
Section  II.A.1  (a)  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement  for  their
Respective  Parts  of the  Project.  Each  overall  Project  Report  shall  cover
the  period  of one  (1) calendar  year,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  World
Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  the  period
covered  by such  report.

Power  Corporations 

prepared 

the 

by 

(b) 

The  performance 
consist of the following:

indicators  referred  to  above 

in  sub-paragraph  (a)

No. 

Indicator

Project Objectives

1.  Reliability  of electricity  supply, as  evidenced  by  the  following
in  the  Project  area,
for  each  of  the  Power  Corporations' 
calculated  in  accordance  with the  methodology  set  forth in  the

-9-

Vietnam  Distribution  Code:

(a)  system  average  interruption  duration  index
(b)  system  average  interruption  frequency  index

2. 

3. 

4. 

Quality  of  electricity  supply,  as  evidenced  by  each  of  the
Power  Corporations'  voltage  excursion  outside  +  /  -5%  in
relation  to  110  Kilovolt  and  medium  voltage  transformers  in
the  Project  area

Total  distribution  losses,  as  evidenced  by  each  of the  Power
Corporations'  losses  in  the  Project  area

Consumption  reduction 
in  relation 
to  advanced  metering
infrastructure  system  customers  of  each  of  Northern  Power
Corporation,  Central  Power  Corporation,  Hanoi  Power
Corporation,  and  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power  Corporation
relative  tc  business as usual

5.  Avoided  greenhouse  gas  emissions  in  relation  to  each  of
Northern  Power  Corporation,  Central  Power  Corporation,
Hanoi  Power  Corporation,  and  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power
Corporation

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  the  Completion  Report  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  2.06  cf the  Standard  Conditions.  The  Completion  Report
shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Closing  Datc.

i. 

Midterm  Review

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

carry  out  jointly  with  the  World  Bank  and  the  Project  Implementing
Entities,  not  later than thirty-six (36)  months,  or such  other  period as may
be  agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  after  the  Effective  Date,  a  midterm
review  to  assess  the  status  of  Project  implementation,  as  measured
against  the performance  indicators  set forth  in Part A.  1 (b)  of this Section
and  Section  II.A.1  (b)  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement.  Such
review  shall  include  an assessment  of the  following:  (i) overall  progress
in  implementation;  (ii)  results  of  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities;
(iv)  progress  on
(iii)  progress  on  procurement  and  disbursement; 
(v)  implementation
implementation 
arrangements;  and (vi)  the  need to  make any  adjustments  to the  Project to
improve  performance,  including  in  relation  to  Sub-projects,  particularly

safeguards  measures; 

of 

- 10-

(b) 

(c) 

Phase  2  Sub-projects, 
Section  I.E.2  (a) (ii)  of the  Schedule  to the  Project  Agreement;

in  accordance  with 

the  provisions 

of

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the
Borrower  and  the  World  Bank,  at  least  one  (1)  month  before  such
review,  a  report,  in  scope  and  detail  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  and
the  results  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities
integrating 
performed  pursuant  to  Part  A. 1 (a)  of this  Section  and  Section  II.A. 1 (a)
of the  Schedule  to the  Project  Agreement,  on  the progress  achieved  in the
carrying  out  of the  Project  during  the  period  preceding  the  date  of such
report  and  setting  oit  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient
carrying  out of the  Project  and  the  achievement  of the  objectives  thereof
during the  period following  such  date; and

review  jointly  with  the  World  Bank  and  the  Project  Implementing
Entities  the  report  referred  to  in  the  preceding  paragraph  and  thereafter
cause the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  take  all  measures  required to
ensure  the efficient  completion  of the  Project  and  the  achievement  of the
objectives  thereof,  based  on  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of
such  report and  the  World  Bank's views  on  the  matter.

C. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

Financial  Management;  Financial  Reports;  Audits

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  a financial  management  system  is  maintained  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section 2.07  of the  Standard  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  are  prepared  and
furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the  end  of
each  calendar  quarter,  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to
the  World  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  for  the  Project  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  (b)  of the  Standard  Conditions.
Each  such  audit  of  the  Fir ancial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  (1)
fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such
period  shall be furnished  to the  World  Bank  not later than six  (6)  months  after the
end  of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

I1. 

Goods,  Works,  and  Non--consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works,  and  non-
consulting  services  requirec  for the  Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds

-11-

of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of th.  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of this  Section.

in  this  Section  to  describe
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below 
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  World  Bank  of
particular  contracts,  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II
and  III  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II, III,  IV and  V  of  the
Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works,  and  Non-consulting
Services

in
International  Competitive  Bidding. 
paragraph  2  below,  goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured
under  contracts awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works,  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works,  and
non-consulting  services.  Tie  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under which  such  methods may  be  used:

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  additional  procedures  set forth

in the Annex to  this Schedule

Procurement  Method

(b) Shopping

(c)  Direct Contracting

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

in
Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
paragraph  2  below,  consu  tants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis  of Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

2. 

3. 

13. 

I1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

- 12-

2 

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services.  The  following  table
specifies  methods  of procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,
which  may  be  used  for consultants'  services.  The Procurement  Plan shall  specify
the  circumstances  under  which  such methods  may be  used:

Procurement Method

(a)  Quality-Based  Selection

(b)  Selection under a  Fixed  Budget

(c)  Least-Cost Selection

(d)  Selection  Based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications

(e)  Single-Source  Selection  of consulting  firms

(f)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines

for the  Selection of Individual  Consultants

(g)  Single-source  procedur.s  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by the World  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts which  shall be  subject  to the
World  Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject to  Post Review
by the  World  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of:  (a)  Article  III  of  the  Standard  Conditions;  (b)  this  Section;  and
(c)  such  additional  instructizns  as  the  World  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the
Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"
dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  World  Bank  and  as  made
applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as set  forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

- 13  -

2. 

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocations  of  the
amounts of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category:

Category 

Amount of the 
Loan  Allocated 
(expressed  in 
USD)

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

29,865,000 

100

(1) Goods, works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services,  and
Training  under  Part  B.2 of
the Project

(2)  Management  Fee 

135,000 

Amount  payable  in
accordance  with  Section 2.04
of this Agreement  and
Section  4.01  (a) of the
Standard  Conditions

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

30,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  no withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  made  p-ior to the  date of this Agreement.

The Closing  Date  is December  31,  2018.

Other Withdrawal  Undertakings

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

The  Borrower  intends  that,  to  the  extent  practicable,  with  respect  to  Part  B.2  of  the
Project,  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  and  the  Financing  will  be  withdrawn  in  the  following
order, namely,  first the proceeds  of the  Loan and  subsequently  those of the Financing.

- 14-

ANNEX  TO SCHEDULE  1

National Competitive  Bidding:  Additional  Procedures

The  procedures  to  be  followed  for  the  procurement  of  goods,  works,  and  non-
consulting  services  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  National  Competitive
Bidding shall  be those  set  forth  in:  (a)  Article  18  on Open  Bidding of the  Borrower's  Law
on  Procurement  No.  61/2005/'QHI  1 dated  November  29, 2005;  (b)  the  Borrower's  Law
No.  38/2009/QHI2  Amending  and  Supplementing  a  Number  of  Articles  of  Laws
Concerning  Capital  Construction  Investment  dated  June  19,  2009;  and  (c)  the  Borrower's
Decree No.  85/2009/ND-CP  Guiding  Implementation  of the Law  on  the  Procurement  and
dated
Selection  of  Construction  Contractors 
October  15,  2009  (collectively,  National  Procurement  Laws),  subject  to  the  provisions  of
Section  I and  Paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  the  following
additional  procedures:

the  Construction  Law 

under 

A  bidder shall  not have  a  conflict  of interest.  Any bidder  found to  have a  conflict
I1. 
of  interest  shall  be  ineligible  for  award  of  a  contract.  The  provisions  on  conflict  of
interest  as  stated  under  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines shall  apply.

Conflict  of Interest

jligibility

The  eligibility  of bidders  shall  be  as  defined  under Section  I of the  Procurement
2. 
Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder  shall  be  declared  ineligible  for
contracts  financed  by  the  World  Bank  for  reasons  other  than  those  provided  in  Section  I
of the  Guidelines.  Foreign  bidders  shall  be  eligible  to  participate  in  bidding  under  the
In  particular,  no domestic  preference  over  foreign
same  conditions  as  national  bidders. 
bidders  shall  be  granted  to  national  :idders  in  bid evaluation,  nor  shall  foreign  bidders  be
asked  or  required  to  form  joint  ventures  with  or  be  subcontractors  to  national  bidders  in
order to  submit a  bid.

Government-owned  enterprises  or  institutions  of  the  Borrower's  country  are
3. 
eligible  to  bid  in  the  Borrower's  country  only  if they  can  establish  that  they:  (i)  are
egally  and  financially  autonomous.  (ii)  operate  under  commercial  law,  and  (iii)  are  not
dependent  agencies  of  the  Borrower  or  sub-borrower.  Military  or  security  units  or
enterprises  established  under,  reporting  directly  or  indirectly  to,  or  owned  wholly  or
partly  by,  the  Ministry  of  Defense  or  the  Ministry  of  Public  Security  shall  not  be
permitted to  bid.

Registration

Registration  shall  not  be  used  to  assess  bidders'  qualifications.  A  foreign  bidder
4. 
shall  not be  required  to  register  as  a  condition  for submitting  its bid and,  if determined  to

- 15  -

be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder,  shall  be  given  reasonable  opportunity  of
registering,  without any  let or  hindrance.  Bidding shall  not be  restricted  to any  particular
class of contractors,  and  non-classified  contractors  shall  also be eligible  to  bid.

Advertising;  Time  for Bid  Preparation

5. 
The complete  text  of advertisement  shall  be  published  in  a  national  newspaper  of
wide  circulation  or  in  the  official  gazette  provided  that  it  is  of wide  circulation,  or  on  a
widely  used  website  or  electronic  p:rtal  with  free  national  and  international  access.  The
Borrower  may  publish  a  shorter version  of the  advertisement  text, including the  minimum
relevant  information,  in  the  national  press  provided  that  the  full  text  is  simultaneously
published  in  the official  gazette  or on  a  widely  used  website  or electronic  portal with  free
national  and  international  access.  Notification  shall  be  given  to  prospective  bidders  in
sufficient  time to  enable them  to obtain  relevant documents.

6. 
The time  allowed  for the  preparation  and  submission  of bids  shall  not be less  than
thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of  availability  of  the
bidding documents,  whichever  is  later.

7. 

Standard  bidding documents  acceptable  to the  World  Bank  shall  be used.

Standard  Bidding  Documents

Qiualification  Criteria

Qualification  criteria  shall  Le  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding  documents,  and  all
8. 
criteria  so specified,  and only  such  specified  criteria, shall be used  to determine  whether a
bidder is  qualified.  Qualification  shall  be assessed on  a pass  or fail  basis and  merit points
shall  not be  used.  Such  assessment  shall  only take  into account the  bidder's  capacity  and
resources  to  perform  the  contract,  specifically  its  experience  and  past  performance  on
similar contracts,  capabilities  with  respect to  personnel,  equipment,  and  construction  and
manufacturing  facilities,  and  financial  capacity.  The  evaluation  of  the  bidder's
qualifications  shall  be  conducted  separately  subsequent  to  the  technical  and  commercial
evaluation of the bid.

Bid  Submission,  Bid  Opening, and  Bid  Evaluation

Bidders  may  submit  bids, at  their  option,  either in person  or by  courier  service  or
9. 
in  the  bidd  ng  documents.  Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,
by  mail,  as  required 
immediately  after  the  deadline  for  submission  of bids,  regardless  of the  number  of bids
received.  Bids  received  after  the  deadline  for  bid  submission  shall  be  rejected  and
returned to  the  bidders  unopened.  A  copy  of the  bid  opening  minutes  shall  be  promptly
provided  to  all  bidders  who  submitted  bids,  and  to  the  World  Bank  with  respect  to
contracts subject  to the  World  Bank's prior review.

-16-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Bidding  documents  shall  be  sold  to  anyone  who  is  willing  to  pay  the
required  fee  for  the  bidding  documents  which  shall  not  exceed  the  costs
of printing,  reproduction,  and  delivery  at  any  time  prior  to  the  deadline
for bid submission,  and  no  other conditions  shall  be  imposed  on the  sale
of the bidding  docunents.

Evaluation  of bids  shall  be  made  in  strict  adherence  to  the  criteria  that
in  the  bidding  documents  and  quantified  in
shall  be  clearly  specified 
monetary  terms  for evaluation  criteria  other than  price;  merit points  shall
not be  used in bid evaluation.

A  contract  shall  be  awarded,  within  the  period  of the  validity  of bids,  to
the  bidder  who  meets  the  appropriate  standards  of  capability  and
resources  and  whose  bid  has  been  determined  (i)  to  be  substantially
to  offer  the  lowest
responsive 
evaluated  cost.  No  negotiations  shall  be  permitted.  A  bidder  shall
neither  be required  nor permitted,  as a condition  for  award,  to  undertake
obligations  not  specified  in  the  bidding  documents  or  otherwise  to
modify the  bid  as originally  submitted.

to  the  bidding  documents  and  (ii) 

No  bid  shall  be  eliminated  from  detailed  evaluation  on  the  basis  of
minor, non-substantive  deviations.

The  comparison  of all  bids  and  the  award  of contract  may  be  based  on
the total  cost at destination  including all  taxes  and  duties.

No  bid shall  be rejected  on the  basis  of a comparison  with the  employer's
estimate  and  budget  ceiling  without  the  World  Bank's  prior  written
agreement.

Rejection  of All  Bids and Re-biddiing

Rejection  of all  bids  is justified when  there is  lack  of effective  competition,  or all
10. 
bids  are  not  substantially  responsive,  or  no  bidder  meets  the  specified  qualification
criteria,  or  the  bid  price  of the  lowest  evaluated  winning  bid  is  substantially  higher than
the  Borrower's  updated  estimated  cost or available  budget.  Lack  of competition  shall  not
be  determined  solely on the  basis  of the  number  of bidders.  Even  when  only  one  (1) bid
is  submitted,  the  bidding  process  may  be  considered  valid  if the  bid  was  satisfactorily
advertised,  the  qualification  criteria were  not unduly  restrictive, and  prices  are reasonable
in  comparison  to  market  values.  All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  or  new  bids  solicited
without the  World  Bank's  prior written agreement.

- 17-

Complaints  by  Bidders and Handling  of Complaints

The  Borrower  shall 

implement  an  effective  and 

independent  protest
I 1. 
mechanism  allowing  bidders  to  protest  and  have  their  protests  handled  in  a  timely
manner.  An  independent  protest  mechanism  shall  provide  for  the  review  of complaints
by  an independent  entity that  is  not  involved  in any  aspect  of the  underlying  procurement
process (e.g.,  bid evaluation,  contract  approval,  etc.).

Fraud and Corruption

The  provisions  on  fraud  and  corruption  as  stated  under  Section  I  of  the
12. 
Procurement  Guidelines  shall  apply.  Each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  out
of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  include  provisions  on  matters  pertaining  to  fraud  and
corruption  as  defined  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines.  The  World  Bank  may  sanction  a
Firm  or  individual,  at  any  time,  in  accordance  with  prevailing  World  Bank  sanctions
procedures,  including  by  publicly  declaring  such  firm  or  individual  ineligible,  either
indefinitely  or  for  a  stated  period  of  time:  (i)  to  be  awarded  a  World  Bank-financed
to  be  a  nominated  subcontractor,  consultant,  supplier,  or  service
zontract;  and  (ii) 
provider of an otherwise  eligible  firm  being awarded a World  Bank-financed  contract.

Right to  Inspect / Audit

Each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  from  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
13. 
shall  include  a  provision  requiring  bidders,  suppliers,  contractors,  and  subcontractors  to
permit  the  World  Bank  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to  the  bid
submission  and  performance  of  the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and  records
audited  by  auditors  appointed  by the  World  Bank.  Acts  intended  to  materially  impede
the  exercise  of  the  World  Bank's  inspection  and  audit  rights  provided  for  in  the
Procurement  Guidelines  constitute  an  obstructive  practice  as  defined  in  the  Procurement
Guidelines.

License

Foreign  contractors  shall  be  given  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  apply  for  and

4. 
obtain  a  work  license,  which  shall not be arbitrarily  withheld.

Publication  of the  Award of Contract

Within  two  (2)  weeks  of receiving  the  World  Bank's  non-objection  to  the  award
15. 
recommendation  for  contracts  subject  to  the  World  Bank's  prior  review,  and  within
two  (2)  weeks  of  the  Borrower's  award  decision  for  contracts  subject  to  the  World
Bank's  post  review,  the  Borrower  shall  publish  the  following  information  on  contract
award  in a  national  newspaper  of wide circulation  and  / or in the  official  gazette  provided
that  it  is  of wide  circulation,  or  on  a  widely  used  website  or  electronic  portal  with  free
national  and  international  access:  (a)  the  name  of  each  bidder  which  submitted  a  bid;

- 18-

(b) bid  prices  as  read  out  at  bid  opening;  (c)  evaluated  prices  of  each  bid  that  was
evaluated;  (d)  the  names  of bidders  whose  bids were  either  rejected  as non-responsive  or
not  meeting  qualification  criteria,  or  not evaluated,  with  the  reasons  thereof;  and  (e)  the
name  of the  winning  bidder,  the  final  total  contract  price,  as  well  as  the  duration  and
summary scope  of the  contract.

Contract Modifications

With  respect to  contracts  subject  to the  World  Bank's  prior review,  the  Borrower
16. 
shall  obtain  the  World  Bank's  non-objection  before  agreeing  to:  (a)  a material  extension
of the  stipulated  time  for  performance  of a  contract;  (b)  any  substantial  modification  of
lie  scope  of  services  or  other  significant  changes  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the
contract;  (c)  any  variation  order  or  amendment  (except  in  cases  of  extreme  urgency)
which,  singly  or  combined  with  al [ variation  orders  or  amendments  previously  issued,
increases  the  original  contract  amcunt  by  more  than  fifteen  percent  (15%);  or  (d)  the
proposed  termination  of the  contract.  A  copy  of  all  contract  amendments  shall  be
provided  to the  World  Bank.

- 19-

SCHEDULE  2

Repayment  Schedule

Date Payment  Due 

On  each March  I and  September  1, commencing 
March  1, 2023  to and  including September  1, 2032

Principal Amount of the
Loan  repayable
(expressed as a percentage)

5

- 20  -

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

^. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

"Additional  Environmental  Management  Plans"  means,  collectively,  the  Power
Corporations  (as  hereinafter  defined)'  plans,  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to  the
Environmental  Management  Framework  (as hereinafter  defined)  and  agreed  with
the  World  Bank,  setting  forth  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and
institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training, to  eliminate
any adverse  environmental  impacts  of activities  to be  implemented  under  Phase  2
Sub-projects  (as  hereinafter  defined),  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable
levels,  or  enhance  positive  impacts,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to
time with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  World  Bank,  and  such term  includes
any  annexes  or schedules  to  such  plans.

the  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and 

"Additional  Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plans"  means,  collectively,  the  Power
Corporations'  plans,  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to  the  Ethnic  Minority  Planning
Framework  (as  hereinafter  defined)  and  agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  setting
institutional  measures,
forth 
including  capacity  building  through  training,  to  address  any  adverse  effects  on
Ethnic  Minorities  (as  hereinafter  defined)  associated  with,  and  ensure  culturally
appropriate  social  and  economic  benefits  for  Ethnic  Minorities  under,  Phase  2
Sub-projects,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  agreement  of  the  World  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or
schedules  to  such  plans.

"Additional  Resettlement  Plans"  means,  collectively,  the  Power  Corporations'
plans,  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (as
hereinafter  defined) and  agreed  with the World  Bank,  setting forth the  mitigation,
enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including capacity  building
through  training, to  carry cut  acquisition  of land  and  other  assets,  compensation,
livelihood  restoration,  of  Project
including 
resettlement,  and  rehabilitation, 
Affected  Persons  (as  hereinafter  defined)  under  Phase  2 Sub-projects,  as  the  same
may be  modified  from time to time with  the prior  written  agreement  of the  World
Bank,  and  such term  incluces  any  annexes  or schedules  to  such  plans.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Con-uption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

-21  -

6. 

7. 

S. 

9. 

10. 

"Electricity  Regulatory  Authority  of  Vietnam"  means  the  Borrower's  entity,
established  and  operating  pursuant  to  its  Decision  No. 258/2005/QD-TTg,  dated
October  19,  2005,  responsible  for  the  regulation  of  its  electricity  sector,  or  a
successor thereto.

"Environmental  Management  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,
dated  June 2012,  agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  and  approved  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's  Decision  No.  4084/QD-BCT  dated  July  17,  2012,  setting  forth
including
mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and 
capacity  building  through  training,  to  eliminate  any  adverse  environmental
impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented  under the  Project,  offset  them,  or reduce
them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  enhance  positive  impacts,  and  guidelines  and
(as
procedures 
hereinafter  defined)  and  Additional  Environmental  Management  Plans,  as  the
same  may  be modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the
to  such
World  Bank,  and  such 
framework.

the  preparation  of  Environmental  Management  Plans 

term  includes  any  annexes  or  schedules 

institutional  measures, 

for 

collectively, 

the  Power
"Environmental  Management  Plans"  means, 
to.  the  Environmental  Management
Corporations'  plans,  prepared  pursuant 
the  World  Bank,  setting  forth  mitigation,
Framework,  and  agreed  with 
enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building
through  training,  to  eliminate  any  adverse  environmental  impacts  of activities  to
be  implemented  under Phase  I  Sub-projects  (as  hereinafter defined),  offset them,
or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  enhance  positive  impacts,  as  the  same
may be  modified  from  time to time  with  the prior  written  agreement  of the  World
Bank, and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or schedules  to such  plans.

"Ethnic  Minorities"  means  social  groups  disadvantaged 
process  and  with  a  social  and  cultural 
constitute  the predominant  ethnic  group  in the  Borrower's  territory.

in  the  development
identity  distinct  from  those  which

"Ethnic  Minority  Planning  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,  dated
June  2012,  agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  and  approved  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's  Decision  No. 4084/QD-BCT  dated  July  17,  2012,  and  setting  forth
the  mitigation,  enhanceme:it,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including
capacity  building  through  training,  to  ensure  meaningful  consultation  with,  and
the  informed  participation  3f,  Ethnic  Minorities  within  the  Project  area  who  are
affected  by  Sub-projects  (as  hereinafter  defined),  and  guidelines  and procedures
for  the  preparation  of  Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plans  (as  hereinafter
defined)  and  Additional  Ethnic Minority  Development  Plans, as the  same  may be
modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  World  Bank,
and such  term  includes  any annexes  or schedules  to such framework.

- 22 -

11. 

2. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

to 

the  Power
"Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plans"  means,  collectively, 
Corporations'  plans,  prepared  pursuant  to  the  Environmental  Minority  Planning
Framework,  and  agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  setting  forth  the  mitigation,
enhancement,  monitoring, and institutional measures,  including capacity  building
through  training,  to  address  any  adverse  effects  on  Ethnic  Minorities  associated
with,  and  ensure  culturally  appropriate  social  and  economic  benefits  for  Ethnic
Minorities  under,  Phase  I Sub-projects,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time
to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the  World  Bank,  and  such  term
includes  any  annexes or sch'edules  to such  plans.
"Hanoi"  means  the  city  of  such  name  in  the  northern  part  of the  Borrower's
territory or a successor  thereto.
"Hanoi  Power Corporation"  means  Vietnam  Electricity  (as  hereinafter  defined)'s
wholly-owned  subsidiary,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's
dated  February  5,  2010,  and  Hanoi  Power
Decision  No.  738/QD-BCT 
the  Borrower's  Decision
Corporation's  charter,  as  adopted  pursuant 
No.  348/2010/QD-EVN  dated  June  2,  2010,  responsible  for  the  development,
operation,  and  maintenance  of  facilities  for  the  distribution  of  electricity  in
Hanoi, or a successor thereto.
"Ho  Chi  Minh  City"  means  the  city  of such  name  in  the  southern  part  of  the
Borrower's  territory  or a  successor  thereto.
"Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power  Corporation"  means  Vietnam  Electricity's  wholly-
owned subsidiary,  established  and operating  pursuant  to the  Borrower's  Decision
No. 768/2010/QD-BCT  dated  February  5, 2010,  and  Hanoi  Power Corporation's
charter,  as  adopted  pursuant  to the  Borrower's  Decision  No.  349/2010/QD-EVN
dated June  2, 2010,  responsible  for the  development,  operation,  and  maintenance
of facilities  for the  distribution  of electricity  in  Ho Chi  Minh  City,  or a  successor
thereto.
"Involuntary  Resettlement"  means  the  following  caused  on  account  of Project
implementation:  (a) the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in  (i) relocation  or
loss of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets or access  to  assets; or (iii)  loss  of income  sources
or  means  of livelihood,  whether  or not the  affected  person  must  move to  another
location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access to  legally  designated  parks
and  protected  areas  resulting  in adverse  impacts on the  livelihood  of the  affected
person.
"Kilovolt"  means  one  thousand  (1,000)  volts,  a  standard  unit  of  measure  of
electric  voltage.
"Ministry  of Defense"  means the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for defense  or
a successor thereto.

- 23  -

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

"Ministry  of Industry  and  Trade"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for
the management  of industry and  trade or a  successor thereto.
"Ministry  of Public  Security"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for
public security  or a successor thereto.
"Northern  Power  Corporation"  means  Vietnam  Electricity's  wholly-owned
subsidiary,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision
No.  789/QD-BCT,  dated  February  5, 2010,  and  Northern  Power  Corporation's
charter,  as adopted  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision  No.  345/2010/QD-EVN
dated  June  2,  2010,  responsible  for the development,  operation,  and maintenance
of  facilities  for  the  distribution  of  electricity  in  the  northern  part  of  the
Borrower's  territory,  excep: for Hanoi, or a successor  thereto.
"Phase  1  Sub-projects"  means  Sub-projects  that  have  been  identified  and
prepared  by  the  Power Coiporations,  approved  by the  relevant  authorities  of the
Borrower,  and appraised  by the  World  Bank by the  date of this Agreement.

"Phase  2 Sub-projects"  means Sub-projects other than  Phase  I Sub-projects.
"Power  Corporations"  means,  collectively,  the  following:  (a)  Northern  Power
Corporation;  (b)  Hanoi  Power  Corporation;  and  (c)  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power
Corporation;  and "Power  Corporation"  means  any one (1) of said entities.
"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  August  10,  2012  alid  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same  shall be
updated from time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions of said paragraphs.
"Project  Affected  Persons"  means  persons  who, on  account of implementation  of
Sub-projects,  have  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  or  social
impacts  caused by:  (a)  the  involuntary  taking of land,  resulting  in:  (i) relocation
or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income
sources  or  means  of  livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  persons  must  move  to
another  location;  or (b)  the involuntary  restriction  of access to  legally  designated
parks  and  protected  areas.,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood of such
persons.
"Project  Implementing  Entities"  means,  collectively,  the  following:  (a)  Vietnam
Electricity;  (b)  Northern  Power  Corporation;  (c)  Hanoi  Power  Corporation;  and

- 24 -

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

(d) Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power  Corporation;  and  "Project  Implementing  Entity"
means  any one  (1) of said entities.

the  Borrower's  Decision  No. 

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means:  (a)  for  Vietnam  Electricity,
the  Borrower's  Decision  No.  975/2010/QD-TTg  dated  June 25,  2010,  and
Vietnam  Electricity's  charter,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision
No.  857/201  1/QD-TTg  dated  June 6,  2011; (b)  for Northern  Power Corporation,
the  Borrower's  Decision  No. 789/QD-BCT  dated  February  5, 2010, and  Northern
Power  Corporation's  charter,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision
No.  345/2010/QD-EVN  dated  June  2,  2010;  (c)  for Hanoi  Power Corporation,  the
Borrower's  Decision  No.  738/QD-BCT  dated  February  5,  2010,  and  Hanoi
Power  Corporation's  charter,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision
No.  348/2010/QD-EVN  daled  June  2,  2010;  and  (d)  for Ho Chi  Minh  City  Power
dated
Corporation, 
February  5, 2010,  and  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power  Corporation's  charter,  as
adopted  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision  No.  349/2010/QD-EVN  dated
June  2,  2010;  and  such  term  includes  any  other  decisions  or  any  laws  and
restructuring,  and
regulations  governing 
operations  of the Project  Implementing  Entities  as of the  date of this  Agreement.
"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual,  dated  June  2012,
agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  and  approved  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision
implementation,
July  26,  2012, 
No.  4294/QD-BCT  dated 
organizational,  administrative,  monitoring and  evaluation,  financial  management,
for  purposes  of  Project
disbursement,  and  procurement 
implementation,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to time  with  the  prior
written  agreement  of  the  World  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or
schedules  to such manual.

the  organization, 

768/2010/QD-BCT 

reorganization, 

arrangements 

setting  out 

resettlement, 

the  Power  Corporations'  plans,
"Resettlement  Plans"  means,  collectively, 
prepared  pursuant  to  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  and  agreed  with  the
the  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and
World  Bank,  setting  forth 
institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building through  training,  to  carry  out
and
land  and  other  assets,  compensation, 
acquisition  of 
rehabilitation,  including  livelihood  restoration,  of Project Affected  Persons  under
Phase  1 Sub-projects,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the
prior written  agreement  oF the  World  Bank, and such  term  includes  any  annexes
or schedules  to such plans.
"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,  dated
to  the
June 2012,  agreed  with  the  World  Bank,  and  approved  pursuant 
Borrower's  Decision  No.  1124/TTg-QHQT  dated  August  3, 2012,  setting  forth
the  mitigation,  enhancerr ent,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including
capacity  building  through  training,  to  carry  out  acquisition  of  land  and  other
livelihood
assets,  compensation,  resettlement,  and  rehabilitation, 

including 

-25-

Plans, 

the  Environmental  Management 

includes  any  annexes  or  schedules 

restoration,  of  Project  Affe.ted  Persons,  and  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the
preparation  of  Resettlement  Plans  and  Additional  Resettlement  Plans,  as  the
same  may  be  modified  from  time to  time  with the  prior  written  agreement  of the
to  such
World  Bank,  and  such  term 
framework.
"Respective  Part  of  the  Project"  means,  individually,  the  following:  (a)  for
Northern  Power Corporation,  Part  B.2 of the  Project  in  its coverage  area;  (c)  for
Hanoi  Power Corporation,  Part B.2 of the Project in  its coverage  area;  and  (d) for
Ho  Chi  Minh  City  Power  Corporation,  Part  B.2  of the  Project  in  its  coverage
area;  and "Respective  Parts of the Project"  means, collectively,  more than one  (1)
of said parts.
"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the  Environmental  Management
any  Additional
Framework, 
Environmental  Management  Plans,  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  the
Resettlement  Plans,  any  Additional  Resettlement  Plans,  the  Ethnic  Minority
the  Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plans,  and  any
Planning  Framework, 
Additional  Ethnic Minority  Development  Plans.
"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Loans  Made  by  the
World Bank Out of the Climate Investment  Funds,  dated  February  15,  2012,  with
the modifications  set forth in  Section  II of this Appendix.
"State  Bank  of  Vietnam"  means  the  Borrower's  central  bank  or  a  successor
thereto.
"Sub-project"  means  a  specific  activity  under  Part  B  of the  Project;  and  "Sub-
projects" means more  than  one (1) such  activity.
"Subsidiary  Agreements"  means,  collectively,  the  agreements  referred  to  in
Section  I.B  of Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower
shall  make  part of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to the  Power Corporations;
and  "Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  any one  (1) of such  agreements.
"Training"  means the  cost of training  financed  under the  Project,  on the  basis  of
the  annual  work  plans  and  budgets  referred  to  in  Section  I.D  of the  Schedule  to
the  Project  Agreement,  attributable  to  seminars,  study  tours,  and  workshops,
along  with  the  cost  of  domestic  and  international  travel  and  subsistence  for
training  participants,  services  of trainers,  rental  of training  facilities,  preparation
and  reproduction  of  training  materials,  and  other  activities  directly  related  to
training preparation  and implementation.
"Vietnam  Distribution  Code"  means  the  Borrower's  code,  adopted  pursuant to  its
Circular  No.  32/2010/TT-BCT  dated  July  30,  2010,  setting  forth  performance

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

- 26 -

forecasts,
standards,  planning  conditions, 
requirements  and  procedures,  and  dispatch,
network  connection 
operation,  and  metering  prozcedures,  all  in relation  to the distribution  system,  and
such term  includes  any annexes  or schedules  to such  code.

investment  procedures,  demand 

technical 

41. 

operating 

enterprise,
the  Borrower's  wholly-owned 
"Vietnam  Electricity"  means 
the  Borrower's  Decision
pursuant 
and 
established 
No.  975/2010/QD-TTg  dated  June 25,  2010,  and Vietnam  Electricity's  charter,  as
adopted  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decision  No.  857/201  1/QD-TTg  dated
June 6,  2011,  responsible  for  the  development,  operation,  and  maintenance,
direct  or indirect, of facilities  for the  generation,  transmission,  and  distribution  of
electricity throughout  the Brrower's  territory,  or a  successor  thereto.

to 

Section  II.  Modifications  to the Standard Conditions

The modification to  the  Standard  Conditions is as follows:

Section  3.06  (a)  is modified to  read as follows:

"(a) 

the  payment  is  for  the  reasonable  cost  of goods,  works,  non-consulting
services,  consultants'  services,  or training  required  for the  Project, to be  financed  out  of
the  proceeds  of the  Loan and  procured,  all  in accordance  with the  provisions  of the  Legal
Agreements;"

