OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS ,  

LOAN NUMBER 8205-UY 

Loan Agreement 

(Uruguay Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program) 

REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 

between 

and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated December 11, 2012 

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN AGREEMENT 

Agreement dated December 11, 2012, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

1.02. (cid:9) Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of sixty six million Dollars ($66,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in 
financing the program described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Program"). 

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited 
by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank. 

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(e) of the General Conditions. 

2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

-2- 

2.07. (a) (cid:9)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; or (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the 
Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a 
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference 
Rate. 

(b) (cid:9)

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end, the 
Borrower, through MTOP, shall, and shall cause CVU to, carry out the activities under 
the Program which fall within their administrative/legal responsibility, all in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

3.02. (cid:9) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Program is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following; 

(a)

(b)

that the CVU shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement; and 

that the CVU shall have failed to comply with any of their obligations under the 
Assignment Agreement, in such a manner so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the CVU to carry out the 
Program activities under its responsibility. 

-3- 

(cid:9)
(cid:9)
4.02. The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the 
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, through MTOP, and 
CVU. 

5.02. The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 

(a)

(b)

the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by 
Borrower counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicate that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms. 

CVU, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by CVU counsel 
acceptable to the Bank, indicate that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly 
authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, CVU and is legally 
binding upon CVU in accordance with its terms. 

5.03 (cid:9) Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on May 13, 
2014. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01. The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 

6.02. The Borrower's Address is: 

Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 

Facsimile: 
(59-82) 1712-2688 

6.03. The Bank's Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address: 

Telex: (cid:9)

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD (cid:9)
Washington, D.C. (cid:9)

248423(MCI) or (cid:9)
64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Montevideo. Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 

REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 

Authorized Representative 

r  Czi' 14 clip  

Name: (cid:9)
Title:  H, bt ( q,f-ro (I(  eccitLotth  

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

Aut rized Representative 

-CL 2-e (cid:9)

5-{c)/(  

Name: (cid:9)

Title: (cid:9)

i-reci/D-7 

By 

By 

-5- 

(cid:9)
(cid:9)
(cid:9)
SCHEDULE 1 

Program Description 

The objectives of the Program are to: (a) sustain at least thirty five percent of the 
National Road Network in Good Condition or Very Good Condition; and (b) improve the 
Borrower's road sector management. 

The Program consists of the following activities to be carried out within the National 

Road Network from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2015: 

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Road rehabilitation and/or maintenance works, which consists of,  inter alia: (i) 
pavement rehabilitation; (ii) pavement resurfacing; (iii) shoulders' rehabilitation 
and/or surfacing; (iv) repairing and/or upgrading drainage systems; and (v) 
rehabilitation and maintenance of road vertical and horizontal signaling. 

inter alia: (i) 
Bridge rehabilitation and maintenance works, which consists of, 
structure repairing of deck, abutments, piers and foundations; and (ii) the 
enhancement of bridge functional characteristics, such as increasing bridge 
extension, deck widening and increasing of bridge bearing capacity. 

Bridge reconstruction works, which consists of the construction of a new 
structure and its contiguous road accesses, to replace an existing bridge on the 
same location or in its vicinity. 

Acquisition, installation and maintenance of road safety equipment. 

Provision of technical assistance to DNV, DNTop and DINAPLO, including, 
inter alia: (i) the carrying out of road condition surveys; (ii) the carrying out of 
training and capacity building activities; and (iii) the carrying out of studies 
required to implement the Program. 

SCHEDULE 2 

Program Execution 

Section I. (cid:9)

Implementation Arrangements 

A. (cid:9)

Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems 

1.

2.

C. (cid:9)

1.

Without limitation on the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in 
accordance with financial management, procurement and environmental and social 
management systems acceptable to the Bank ("Program Fiduciary, Environmental and 
Social Systems") which are designed to ensure that: 

the Loan proceeds are used for their intended purposes, with due attention to the 
principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability; and 

the actual or potential adverse environmental and social impacts of the Program are 
identified, avoided, minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an informed 
decision-making process. 

B. (cid:9)

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall carry out the Program, or cause the Program to be carried out, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 

Program Institutions  

(a) (cid:9)

Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower 
shall maintain or cause to be maintained during the implementation of the 
inter alia, 
Program, the offices, units and branches within MTOP (including, 
DNV,  Direccion Nacional de Topografia  and  Direccion Nacional de 
Planificacion y Logistica),  CVU, MEF, MVOTMA and/or under any other 
relevant ministries, each assigned with technical, environmental and social 
safeguards, fiduciary and other Program related responsibilities for implementing 
the Program, all with powers, functions, capacity, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank to fulfill their respective functions under the Program. 

2.

Subsidiary Agreement 

(a) (cid:9)

For the purposes of carrying out the Program, the Borrower, through MTOP, 
shall enter into an agreement with the CVU (the Subsidiary Agreement) under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include,  inter cilia, 
CVU's obligation to carry out the Program activities under its responsibility in 
accordance with: (i) technical, financial, administrative, fiduciary and 

-7- 

3. (cid:9)

Additional Program Implementation Arrangements 

(b) (cid:9)

(a)

(b)

environmental standards and practices acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

The Borrower, through MTOP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreements 
or any of its provisions. 

Without limitation on the generality of Part A of this Section I, unless otherwise 
agreed by the Bank, the Borrower shall carry out the Program Action Plan or 
cause the Program Action Plan to be carried out, in accordance with such 
schedule as shall have been approved by the Bank, and in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank. 

Throughout the implementation of the Program, the Borrower shall exercise its 
rights and carry out its obligations under the Concession Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the objectives of the Program. 

Section II. (cid:9)

Excluded Activities  

The Borrower shall ensure that the Program shall include no activities which: 

A.

B.

in the opinion of the Bank are likely to have significant adverse impacts that are sensitive, 
diverse, or unprecedented on the environment and/or affected people; or 

involve procurement of: (i) works, estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more per 
contract; (ii) goods, estimated to cost $30,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; (iii) 
non-consulting services, estimated to cost $20,000,000 equivalent or more per contract; 
and (iv) consultants' services, estimated to cost $15,000,000 equivalent or more per 
contract. 

Section III. (cid:9)

Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation; Audits 

A. (cid:9)

Program Reports 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare 
Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. Each Program Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 

-8- 

B. (cid:9)

Program Financial Audits 

1. (cid:9)

Without limitation on the generality of Section LC of this Schedule 2 and Section 
5.09 of the General Conditions, the Borrower: 

(a)

(b)

through MTOP, shall have the Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period 
of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than nine 
months after the end of such period; and 

shall cause CVU to: (i) have its financial statements audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each 
audit of said financial statements shall cover the period of CVU's one 
fiscal year; and (ii) (A) not later than nine months after the end of each 
fiscal year, furnish to the Borrower, through MTOP, and the Bank the 
audited financial statement for each such period; and (B) make publicly 
available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the 
financial statements for each such period. 

C. (cid:9)

Technical Audits 

The Borrower, through MTOP, shall: (a) not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, hire independent auditors under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry 
out the verification of compliance of the First and Second DLIs which are set forth in the 
table in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule; and (b) cause said independent auditors to, not 
later than thirty days after the verification of compliance of said DLIs has been 
completed, prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, a report on the results of 
said verification of compliance process of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request. 

Section IV. (cid:9) Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 

General 

A. (cid:9)

1.

2.

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the Borrower to finance the Program 
Expenditures on the basis of the results ("Disbursement Linked Results" or "DLRs") 
achieved by the Borrower as measured against specific indicators ("Disbursement Linked 
Indicators" or "DLIs"); all as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of this Part A. 

The following table specifies the categories of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan 
("Category"), the Disbursement Linked Indicators and Disbursement Linked Results for 
each Category (as applicable), and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category: 

-9- 

Disbursement Linked 
Indicator 

Disbursement 
Linked Result 

(1) First DLI: 

DLR#1: Each kilometer  $26,000,000, of 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

which $49,620 for 
each DLR 

Cumulative number of kilometers 
of the National Road Network 
rehabilitated at a minimum rating 
of 85, as measured by the IES for 
the first Loan withdrawal under 
this Category; and at least 50 
additional kilometers rehabilitated 
on the terms stipulated herein in 
respect of each subsequent Loan 
withdrawal. 

(2) Second DLI: 

Number of kilometers of the 
National Road Network 
maintained through Performance- 
based Contracts. 

DLR#2.1: at least 3,200  DLR#2.1: 
km in calendar year 
2013. 

$10,000,000 

DLR#2.2: at least 3,250  DLR#2.2: 
km (in the aggregate 
from a baseline of 
3,200 km) in calendar 
year 2014. 

$10,000,000 

DLR#2.3: at least 3,300  DLR#2.3: 
(in the aggregate from a 
baseline of 3,250 km) 
km in calendar year 
2015 

$10,000,000 

(3) Third DLI 

3.1 Strengthen the Borrower's 
capacity in multimodal transport 
planning through the approval of 
appropriate instruments. 

3.1: The multimodal 
plan for Montevideo 
seaport land access has 
been approved. 

DLR# 3.1: 
$2,500,000 

3.2 Improve the design of the 
Borrower's pavement rehabilitation 
works. 

3.2 The catalogue for 
technical solutions of 
pavement rehabilitation 
has been approved. 

DLR# 3.2: 
$2,500,000 

3.3 Increase the Borrower's 
environmental supervision 
efficiency on road rehabilitation 
and maintenance works. 

DLR# 3.3: 
$2,500000 

3.3: DNV 
Environmental Manual 
has been updated and at 
least 75% of DNV's 
technical staff with 
responsibilities related 
to works supervision 
have been trained under 
terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, 
including a training on 
the description of the 
features of the updated 
DNV Environmental 
Manual. 

an international 
workshop on best 
practices for road works 
social management has 
been carried out. 

3.4: The guidelines for 
3.4 (cid:9) Consolidate (cid:9) expropriation (cid:9) and  expropriation and social 
social management processes related  management processes 
to civil works on the National Road  have been approved and 
Network. 

DLR# 3.4: 
$2,500,000 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

$66,000,000 

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)

(b)

B. (cid:9)

1. (cid:9)

2. (cid:9)

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or 

for purposes of Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, for DLIs/DLRs achieved 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,800,000 equivalent may be made for DLIs/DLRs 
achieved prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2013 (but in no case more 
than one (1) year prior to the date of this Agreement), for Program Expenditures; 
or 

for any DLR referred to in the table in Part A.2 of this Section unless and until 
the Bank is satisfied based on evidence acceptable to the Bank that said DLR has 
been fully achieved on terms and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(c) of this Section, the Borrower may 
withdraw an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $14,000,000 as an advance for 
Categories 1 and 2; provided, however, in each case, that if the DLRs for said Categories, 
in the opinion of the Bank, are not achieved (or only partially achieved) by the Closing 
Date, the Borrower shall refund such advance (or a portion of such advance as 
determined by the Bank) to the Bank promptly upon notice thereof by the Bank. Except 
as otherwise agreed with the Borrower, the Bank shall cancel the amount so refunded. 
Any further withdrawals requested as an advance under any Category shall be permitted 
only on such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 

3. (cid:9)

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1(c) of this Section: 

If the Borrower has partially achieved any DLR under Category (2), the Bank 
may authorize the withdrawal of a portion of the amount of the Loan then 
allocated to said DLR, provided that the number of kilometers maintained under 
the pertinent DLR shall have exceeded the DLR Baseline, which portion of the 
Loan amount to be withdrawn shall be calculated in accordance with the formula 
set forth in the additional disbursement instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 
(the "Disbursement Letter"). 

If any DLR under Category (2) has not been achieved or has been partially 
achieved (and, as a result of which a portion of the Loan has been withdrawn 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) herein), the Bank may at any time, by notice to the 
Borrower, decide in its sole discretion to: (i) authorize the withdrawal of the 
unwithdrawn portion of Loan proceeds then allocated to said DLR, at such later 
date (prior to the Closing Date) if and when the Bank shall be satisfied that the 
pertinent DLR under the same Category for any subsequent calendar year has 
been fully achieved; (ii) reallocate the unwithdrawn portion of the proceeds of 
the Loan then allocated to such DLR under said Category to any other Category; 

-12- 

and/or (iii) cancel said unwithdrawn portion of the proceeds of the Loan then 
allocated to such DLR under said Category. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2016. 

4.

5.

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section IV, if the Bank establishes after 
the Closing Date that the Withdrawn Loan Balance exceeds the total amount of Program 
Expenditures paid by the Borrower, exclusive of any such expenditures financed by any 
other financier or by the Bank or the Association under any other loan, credit or grant, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such excess 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance. The Bank shall cancel the refunded amount of 
the Withdrawn Loan Balance. 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 

1. (cid:9)

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each February 15 and August 15 

Beginning on February 15, 2028 
through August 15, 2032 

February 15, 2033 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

9.09% 
9.10% 

2. (cid:9)

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a)

(b)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 

3. (cid:9)

(a) (cid:9)

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

-14- 

(cid:9)
(cid:9)
(b) (cid:9)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

4.

5.

SCHEDULE 4 

Program Action Plan 

1.

Categorize the National Road Network 

Define a new categorization of the National Road Network that matches the Borrower's current 
needs in terms of transport. Said categorization should factor in maintenance resources and define 
the basic characteristics of the different road categories. 

Due Date: December 31, 2015 

2.

Strengthen Analytical Capacity Transport Modeling 

Design and implement a national freight transport model to evaluate the Borrower's long term 
requirements in terms of core infrastructure needs. 

Due Date: December 31, 2015 

3.

Road safety: Improve Critical Points Design 

Design a manual comprised of standard technical solutions to optimize and standardize the design 
of junctions prone to accidents. 

Due Date: December 31, 2014 

4.

Consolidate Processes for Works Supervision 

Finalize the road works supervision manual, including a section on maintenance contracts and 
result-based contracts. 

Due Date: December 31, 2013 

5.

Improve MTOP's Internal Audit Unit Capacity 

review MTOP's internal audit unit capacity; 

prepare a capacity building plan; and 

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

carry out training for MTOP's internal audit unit's staff on risk-based audit. 

Due Date: December 31, 2014 

6.

Reduce Bidding Processes Duration 

Carry out a detailed diagnostic of intermediate instances between bid evaluation and contract 
award, to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to improve efficiency and performance. 

Due Date: December 31, 2014 

7.

Environmental Audits for Works 

Carry out an environmental audit every six months in selected contracts of the Program. 

Due Date: December 31, 2015 

8.

Improve Complaints and Grievance Handling Mechanism 

institutionalize the process to handle complaints and grievances related to the 
implementation of the Program; and 

establish and maintain a database to track and follow-up on these complaints and 
grievances, including complaints on procurement processes, implementation of 
works, and environment and social issues. 

Due Date: December 31, 2014 

9.

Strengthen Communications with Civil Society 

carry out yearly satisfaction survey of road users; and 

implement a communication strategy to provide information on the road 
rehabilitation activities under the Program. 

(I) 

(ii) (cid:9)

(i)

(ii)

Due Date: December 31, 2015 

(cid:9)
Section I. Definitions 

APPENDIX 

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Program-for-Results Financing," dated February 1, 
2012. 

"Assignment Agreement" means the agreement  (Contrato de Cesion)  of February 18, 
2003, entered into between CVU and CND pursuant to which CVU was assigned the 
rights and obligations of CND under the Concession Agreement. 

"Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 

"Co-financier" means: (i) Inter-American Development Bank; and (ii) FONPLATA. 

"Co-financing" means, for purposes of paragraph 16 of the Appendix to the General 
Conditions: (i) an amount of eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000) to be provided by the 
Inter-American Development Bank; and (ii) one hundred and twenty million Dollars 
($120,000,000) to be provided by FONPLATA, to assist in financing the Program. 

"Co-financing Agreement" means: (i) the agreement between the Borrower and the Inter-
American Development Bank, dated March 15, 2012; and (ii) the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and FONPLATA, providing for the Co-financing. 

"CND" means  Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo, the Borrower's Development 
Corporation, established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 15.785, dated December 4, 
1985, and published in the Borrower's official gazette on December 23, 1985. 

"Concession Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Borrower, 
through MTOP (as defined below) and CND dated October 5, 2001 (as amended) for 
purposes of,  inter alia, granting to CND the administration of the Mega-Concession (as 
defined below). 

"CVU" means  Corporacion Vial del Uruguay,  S.A., an entity vested with legal 
personality, which has been assigned the rights and obligations of  Corporacion Nacional 
para el Desarrollo (CND) under the Concession Agreement pursuant to the terms of the 
Assignment Agreement (defined above). 

"DINAPLO" means  DirecciOn Nacional de Planificacion y Logistica,  the Borrower's 
department in charge of logistics and planning within MTOP (as defined below). 

"DLR Baseline" means, for the purpose of Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, the following baseline results: (i) 1600 kilometers for DLR 2.1; (ii) 1625 
kilometers for DLR 2.2; (iii) 1650 kilometers for DLR 2.3. 

-18- 

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

"DNTop" means  Direction Nacional de Topografia,  the Borrower's National 
Department of Topographics Surveying within MTOP (as defined below). 

"DNV" means  Direction Nacional de Vialidad,  the Borrower's National Department of 
Highways within MTOP (as defined below). 

"DNV Environmental Manual" means DNV's environmental manual, acceptable to the 
Bank, approved pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 176/003, dated May 1998, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 

"Disbursement Linked Indicator" or "DLI" means, in respect of a given Category, the 
indicator related to said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 

"Disbursement Linked Result" or "DLR" means, in respect of a given Category, the 
result under said Category as set forth in the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, on the basis of the achievement of which, the amount of the Loan allocated 
to said result may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of said Section IV. 

"FONPLATA" means  Fondo Financiero para el Desarrollo de los Paises de la Cuenca 
del Plata,  Fund for the Development of the Countries of the Rio del Plata Basin, 
established pursuant to its Articles of Agreement, dated June 12, 1974. 

"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

"Good Condition" means a pavement surface with an IRI (as defined below) of less than 
2.8 meter/kilometer for asphalt concrete pavement, less than 3.6 meter/kilometer for 
hydraulic concrete pavement and less than 3.9 meter/kilometer for surface treatment 
pavement. 

"IES" means  Indite de Estado de Superficie,  the Borrower's index served to rate the 
condition of the road after the same has been rehabilitated, as defined in MTOP's 
Instructivo de Medicion del Indite de Estado de Superficie,  dated August 2000. 

"IRI" means International Roughness Index, as defined by the American Society for 
Testing and Materials norm No. 1926-08. 

"Mega-Concession" means the Borrower's road concession (currently administered by 
CVU (as defined above)), whereby CVU is responsible for the construction, 
rehabilitation and maintenance works of selected roads and bridges within the National 
Road Network. 

23.

"MTOP" means  Ministerio de Transporte y Obras Ptiblicas, the Borrower's Ministry of 
Transport and Public Works; 

-19- 

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

1.

2.

3.

4.

"MVOTMA" means  Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio 
Ambiente,  the Borrower's Ministry of Housing, Land Planning and Environment. 

"National Road Network" means the Borrower's national roads  (Caminos Nacionales)  as 
described in the Borrower's  Decreto-Ley  No. 10.382, dated February 13, 1943, and in 
MTOP's Resolution dated December 6, 2002. 

"Performance-Based Contract" means a multi-year contract under the Program, entered 
into by the Borrower, through MTOP and/or DNV, with a private sector contractor, 
whereby payments to the contractor are based, 
inter alia,  on the quality of the road 
maintenance carried out by said private sector contractor. 

"Program Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said plan may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 

"Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social Systems" means the Borrower's systems 
for the Program referred to in Section LA of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 

"Very Good Condition" means a pavement surface with an IRI of less than 2.3 m/km for 
asphalt concrete pavement, less than 3.2 m/km for hydraulic concrete pavement and less 
than 3.8 m/km for surface treatment pavement. 

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions 

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 

Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term "the Project" is modified to 
read "the Program", the term "the Project Agreement" is modified to read "the Program 
Agreement", the term "Project Implementing Entity" is modified to read "the Program 
Implementing Entity", the term "Project Report" is modified to read "Program Report"; 
and the term "Eligible Expenditures" is modified to read "Program Expenditures". 

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section numbers 
shall be modified to reflect the substantive amendments set out below. 

Section 2.02,  Special Commitment by the Bank, 
subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 

is deleted in its entirety, and the 

In Section 2.02 (originally numbered as Section 2.03), the heading  "Applications for 
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment"  shall be replaced with  "Applications for 
Withdrawal",  and the phrase "or to request the Bank to enter into a Special Commitment" 
shall be deleted. 

-20- 

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

The section originally numbered as Section 2.04,  Designated Accounts  is deleted in its 
entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (originally numbered as Section 2.05),  Eligible 
Expenditures  (renamed "Program Expenditures" in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Section II), is modified to read: "(a) the payment is for the financing of the reasonable 
cost of expenditures required for the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;". 

The last sentence of Section 2.04 (originally numbered as Section 2.06),  Financing 
Taxes,  is modified to read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines that the 
amount of any such Tax is excessive, or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, exclude such amount or such 
Tax from the Program Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
specified in the Loan Agreement, as required to ensure consistency with such policy of 
the Bank." 

Section 2.06 (originally numbered as Section 2.08),  Reallocation,  is modified to read: 
"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the Loan to a withdrawal category 
under the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate any other 
amount of the Loan to such category if the Bank reasonably determines at any time that 
such reallocation is appropriate for the purposes of the Program. 

Section 7.01,  Cancellation by the Borrower,  is modified to read: "The Borrower may, by 
notice to the Bank, cancel any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance." 

Paragraph (d) of Section 7.03,  Cancellation by the Bank,  is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are relettered accordingly. 

Section 7.04,  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or 
Suspension by the Bank,  is deleted in its entirety, and subsequent Sections in Article VII 
and references to such Sections are renumbered accordingly. 

In the Appendix,  Definitions,  all references to Section numbers are modified, as 
necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above. In addition, paragraph 86 
("Special Commitment") is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs are 
renumbered accordingly. 

