OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 

LOAN NUMBER 8209-ID 

Loan Agreement 

(Connectivity Development Policy Loan) 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

between 

and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated November 23 , 2012 

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN NUMBER 8209-ID 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

Agreement dated November 23 , 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis,  inter uliu,  of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's 
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million United States Dollars 
(US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement ("Loan"). 

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 

accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the 
Effective Date. 

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then 
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 
3.02 (e) of the General Conditions. 

2.05. The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.07. (a) (cid:9)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency: (ii) a change of the interest 
rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or 
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable 
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable 
Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate. 

(b) (cid:9)

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to  Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this 

end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

(a) (cid:9)

the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party. 
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program: 

(cid:9)
(cid:9)
(cid:9)
(b)

(c)

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 

without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken 
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: The Bank is 
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and 
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework. 

5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01. The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance. 

6.02. The Borrower's Address is: 

Directorate General of Debt Management 
Ministry of Finance 
Gedung Frans Seda 
Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

Cable address: (cid:9)

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY (cid:9)
Jakarta 

45799 (cid:9)

(21) 381 2859 

-3- 

 

 

6.03. The Bank's Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address: (cid:9)

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD (cid:9)
Washington, D.C. 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

By 

Authorized Representative 

Name:  Robert Pakpahan 

Expert Staff of Mi ister 

Title:  of Finance on State Revenue 
With Full Mandate as 
DG of Debt Management 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

thlhorized Representative 

Name:  (cid:9)

.

cE--fi-tu,16  PAcclnieli 

Title: (cid:9)

Aunl(cid:127)

,'G c DUrifil'f (cid:9)

PIRG-CTDP- 

SCHEDULE 1 

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 

Section I. (cid:9)

Actions under the Program  

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 

Pillar 1: Strengthening National Coordination and Regulation 

1. (cid:9)

3.

4.

5.

6.

The Borrower has issued a Presidential Regulation (No. 26/2012) establishing the 
Borrower's national logistics system blueprint and the Coordinating Ministry for 
Economic Affairs has issued a Ministerial Decree (No. 49/2012) establishing the 
working team that will coordinate, monitor and evaluate the implementation of the 
national logistic system blueprint, in support of the connectivity agenda. 

The Fiscal Policy Office of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance has submitted a drafi 
Ministerial Regulation to the Minister of Finance establishing the mechanism for 
channeling government funds to public-private partnership projects in infrastructure. 

Pillar 2: Strengthening Intra-Island Connectivity (rail and road) 

The Borrower has issued a land acquisition Law (No. 2/2012) and a Presidential 
Regulation (No. 71/2012) on land acquisition for public purpose development. 

The Borrower has issued a Presidential Regulation (No. 53/2012) on Public Service 
Obligation in railway services, reimbursement of infrastructure maintenance operation. 
and track access charges, which serves as a catalyst for implementing the first step to 
separate assets of the state-owned railway company (PT KAI) and move towards a line-
of-business management structure. 

The Borrower has issued DG Highway Circular Letter (No. 06/SE/06/2012), which 
recommends the use of performance based contracting for any road project and has 
started to award contracts using the referred performance based methodology. 

Pillar 3: Improving Inter-island Connectivity 

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology 
has issued a Ministerial Regulation (No. 23/2012) on the use of the ICT Fund to 
support the development of broadband ICT infrastructure in underserved areas in 
Indonesia. 

-5- 

7.

8.

A.

B.

C.

D.

Pillar 4: Improving International Connectivity 

The Borrower has amended Presidential Regulation No.10/2008 through the issuance of 
Presidential Regulation No. 35/2012 to make the Indonesia National Single Window 
System the single reference portal for cross-border trade regulations in the customs 
clearance process. 

The Borrower has introduced the national Agency of Drug and Food Control into the 
Indonesia National Single Window System using the Single Sign-On. 

Section II. (cid:9)

Availability of Loan Proceeds 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, 
from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations 

(1)  Single Withdrawal Tranche 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in United States Dollars) 
100,000,000 
100,000,000 

Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.  No withdrawal shall be made of the Single 
Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out 
by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy 
framework. 

E.

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 

1.

2.

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

F.

Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  I f the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 

G.

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is April 30, 2013. 

SCHEDULE 2 

Amortization Schedule 

1 (cid:9)

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

February 1, 2022 
August 1, 2022 
February 1, 2023 
August 1, 2023 
February 1, 2024 
August 1, 2024 
February 1, 2025 
August 1, 2025 
February 1, 2026 
August 1, 2026 
February 1, 2027 
August 1, 2027 
February 1, 2028 
August 1, 2028 
February 1, 2029 
August 1, 2029 
February 1, 2030 
August 1, 2030 
February 1, 2031 
August I, 2031 
February 1, 2032 
August 1, 2032 
February 1, 2033 
August 1, 2033 
February 1, 2034 
August 1, 2034 
February 1, 2035 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.17% 
2.22% 
2.28% 
2.34% 
2.4% 
2.46% 
2.52% 
2.58% 
2.64% 
2.71% 
2.78% 
2.85% 
2.92% 
2.99% 
3.07% 
3.14% 
3.22% 
3.3% 
3.38% 
3.47% 
3.56% 
3.65% 
3.74% 
3.83% 
3.93% 
4.02% 
4.12% 

-8- 

August 1, 2035 
February 1, 2036 
August 1, 2036 
February 1 2037 

4.23% 
4.33% 
4.44% 
4.71% 

2. (cid:9)

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a)

(b)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 

3. (cid:9)

(a) (cid:9)

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) (cid:9)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system. 

4. (cid:9)

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

-9- 

(cid:9)
(cid:9)
(cid:9)
5. (cid:9)

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

APPENDIX 

Section I. Definitions 

1 (cid:9)

2.

3.

4.

5.

"Agency of Drug and Food Control" means the  Badan Pengaivas Mat dun Makanan, the 
Borrower's Agency of Drug and Food Control or any successor thereto. 

"Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs" means  Kementeriun Koordinator Bidung 
Perekonomian,  the Borrower's Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, or any 
successor thereto. 

"Circular Letter" means  Surat Edaran, a Borrower's circular. 

"DG Highway" means  Direktorat Jenderal Binu  Marga, the Borrower's Directorate 
General for Highways of the Ministry of Public Works, or any successor thereto. 

"Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure: 

(a)

(b)

for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international 
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed 
or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant: 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 

Sub-group 

718.7 

728.43 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 

897 

897.3 

971 

Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including set 
gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party); 

on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 

with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 

"Fiscal Policy Office" means  Buclun Kelniukun Fiskul,  the fiscal policy unit of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto. 

"General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

"ICT Fund" means the Borrower's mechanism for funding information and 
communication technology (ICT) investments in unserved and underserved areas which 
are commercially less viable, and which are financed by the Borrower through a levy on 
the telecom industry. 

"Indonesia National Single Window" means the Borrower's national trade facilitation 
system that enables single submission of data and information, single and synchronous 
processing of data and information and single decision-making for customs release and 
clearance of cargo. 

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

"Ministry of Communications and Information Technology" means  Kementeriun 
the Borrower's Ministry of Communications and 
Komunikusi dun Infiffmatika, 
Information Technology or any successor thereto. 

1 1 . (cid:9)

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

1.

2.

3.

"Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor 
thereto. 

"Minister of Finance Regulation" means  Peraturan Menteri Keuangan,  a regulation 
issued by the Minister of Finance of the Borrower. 

"Presidential Regulation" means  Perpres, Pcraturan Presiden, a presidential regulation 
of the Borrower. 

"Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated October 5, 2012 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 

"PT KAI" means  PT Kereta Api Indonesia,  the Borrower's state-owned, limited liability 
railway company, or any successor thereto. 

"Public Service Obligation" means an arrangement in which the Borrower covers the 
difference between the cost of a public product or service and the fee charged by a 
company to provide said product or service to the public, in order to ensure the delivery 
and affordability of said product or service to the public. 

"Single Sign-on" means the mechanism under the Indonesia National Single Window 
whereby a single action of user authentication and authorization can permit a user to 
access all public services by multiple government agencies. 

"Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions 

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04  (Designated Accounts)  and 2.05  (Eligible Expenditures)  are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 

(Project Execution Generally),  and 5.09  (Financial Management; 
Sections 5.01 
Financial Statements; Audits)  are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

-13- 

4.

5.

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to  Use of Goods, Works and Services)  is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 

"Section 5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records 

(c) (cid:9)

The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's 
representatives to examine such records." 

6.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c) (cid:9)

The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Loan. 

7.

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 

(a)

The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows: 

(b)

(c)

"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement." 

The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 

The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified to 
read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"): 

"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made." 

