IOFICIAL

DCtIUMNTS

LOAN NUMBER  8138-MU

Loan Agreement

(Public Sector Performance  - Development Policy Loan)

REPUBLIC  OF MAURITIUS

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  April 20, 2012

LOAN  NUMBER  8138-MU

LOAN  AGREEMENT

and 

INTERNATIONAL 

AGREEMENT  dated April  20, 2012,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
("Borrower") 
BANK 
AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the  Program
(as defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this Agreement).  The  Bank has  decided  to provide  this  financing
on  the  basis,  inter alia, of (a)  the  actions  which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the
Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I of  Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b) the
Borrower's  maintenance  of an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and
the Bank therefore  hereby  agree  as follows:

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees to  lend to the  Borrower,  on  the terms and  conditions set forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  twenty  million  Dollars  ($20,000,000),  as  such
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  2.07  of this Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program  in

accordance  with  Section  II of Schedule  I to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal
to  the  Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided  that  upon
a  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest
payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be
determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General
Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty
days, then  the  interest payable  by  the Borrower  shall  instead  be calculated  as  provided  in
Section  3.02  (e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.05.  The  Payment  Dates February  15  and August  15  in  each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth  in  Schedule 2 to this  Agreement.

-2-

2.07. 

(a) 

to  an  Approved  Currency; 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
a  change
of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount
of the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa, or from  a Variable  Rate  based on  a Variable  Spread to a Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate
applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn
and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  on the  Variable  Rate.

(ii) 

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph 

(a)  of  Section  2.07  of  this
Agreement and  unless otherwise  notified  by the Borrower  to the  Bank in accordance  with
the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to
consecutive  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  which  in  the  aggregate  equal  or exceed
$20,000,000  shall  be converted  from  the  initial  Variable  Rate  to a  Fixed  Rate  for  the full
maturity  of such  amount in accordance  with  the provisions  of the General  Conditions and
of the Conversion  Guidelines.

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  of  Section  II  of the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of this  Article  II as  the
Bank  may  from  time to  time  reasonably  request.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  To  this
end,  and  further to Section  5.08 of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time to  time,  at the  request  of either  party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program  and  the  actions  specified  in
Section  I of Schedule  I to this Agreement;

prior to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower shall  furnish  to the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in  such detail  as the Bank  shall  reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any  situation  that  would  have
the  effect  of materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or  any  action
taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action  specified  in  Section  I of Schedule
I to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE IV  - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  a  situation
has arisen  which shall  make  it  improbable  that the Program,  or a significant  part  of it,  will
be carried  out.

ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by the  Borrower  in  carying out the Program
and with  the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's macroeconomic  policy framework.

5. 02.  The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90)  days  after the date  of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.  01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is the Minister  of Finance  and  Economic  Development.

6. 02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance and  Economic  Development
Government  House
Port Louis
Mauritius

Cable: 

MfNFIN 
Port Louis 

Telex: 

4247 
EXTERN  IW

Facsimile:

(230) 213  6450

6. 03.  The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Washington  D.C.,  United  States  of  America,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first

above written.

-4-

REPUBLIC  OF MAURITIUS

By:

By:

Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  Taken  under the Program

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

The  Borrower  has  issued  a  new  organizational  and  staffing  chart  for NEF  which  shall
have  been  approved  by  MoSIEE,  reflecting  the  new  institutional  structure  of NEF,  and
with  separate  departments  for:  a)  child  and  family  development;  b)  community
empowerment;  c)  placement  and training; and  d) monitoring and  evaluation.

The  Borrower has  sought  and  obtained  Cabinet  approval  of a memorandum  giving  details
of its proposal  and  action  plan  for the establishment  of SRM.

The  Borrower  has  sought  and  obtained  Cabinet  approval  of  a  concept  paper  for
prevocational  education  reform,  giving  details  of proposed  changes  to  existing  learning
and  institutional  arrangements,  including  extension  of prevocational  education  to  four
years,  revision  of curricula,  introduction  of teaching  and  learning  methods  to  promote
retention,  and  acquisition of core  basic  skills and  technical competencies.

The  Borrower  has  established  a joint  public-private  Business  Facilitation  Task  Force,
giving  it  a  mandate  to  review  existing  systems and  processes,  and  streamline  regulations,
governing  trade  and  investments,  with  a  view  to  removing  bottlenecks  and  creating  a
business-friendly  environment.

The  Borrower  has  sought  and  obtained  Cabinet  approval  of  a  memorandum,  giving
details  of proposed  modalities  and  action  plan  for  the  establishment  of a  comprehensive
and  up-to-date  Trade  Portal.

The  Borrower  has,  through  MOFED,  developed  a  draft  policy  paper  on  the  proposed
establishment  within 
internal  appeals
mechanism  that complies with  the requirements  of the Revised  Kyoto  Convention, giving
details  of the  proposed  legal  and  institutional  framework,  and  operating  guidelines  and
procedures,  governing  such a mechanism.

its  customs  department  of  an  appropriate 

The  Borrower  has,  through  MCSAR,  submitted  to  Cabinet  an  information  paper,  giving
details  of  plans  to  streamline  Schemes  of Service  and  expedite  the  process  of review,
modification  and  consolidation  of  such  Schemes  of  Service,  based  on  adequate
consultations  with  civil  service  unions  and  other stakeholders,  and  reflecting  the  outcome
of such consultations.

The  Borrower  has  sought  and  obtained  Cabinet  approval  of  a  memorandum,  giving
details  of the  revised  mandate  of OPSG  to: a)  monitor  the  overall  performance  of SOEs;
b)  prepare  quarterly  reports;  c)  support 
the  preparation  and
implementation  of performance  improvement  plans;  and  d)  supervise  the  pace  of  SOE
reforms  as  approved  by  Cabinet,  reporting  back  to  Cabinet  with  proposals  for corrective
measures  as needed.

line  ministries 

in 

-6-

Section II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

B. 

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice to the Borrower.

Allocation  of  Loan  Amount.  -The  Loan  (except  for  the  amount  required  to  pay  the
Front-end  Fee)  is allocated  in a single withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the  Borrower  may
make withdrawals  of the  Loan proceeds.  The  allocation  of the  amount of the Loan  to this
end  is  set out in  the  table below:

(1) Single Withdrawal  Tranche 

(2)  Front-end  Fee 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount  of the Loan  Allocated
(expressed  in USD)

19,950,000

50,000

20,000,000

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.

No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of  the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank  is
satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being  carried  out  by  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the
adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework.

D. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except  as the Bank  may otherwise  agree:

1. 

2. 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an
account designated  by the Borrower  and acceptable  to the Bank; and

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget
management  system,  in  a  manner acceptable  to the  Bank.

E. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
not be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank determines  at any  time that  an
amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  an  amount  equal  to  the
amount  of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  Bank  upon  such  request
shall  be cancelled.

F. 

Closing Date.  The Closing  Date  is  December  31,  2012.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the.
percentage  of the total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on each  Principal  Payment
Date ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by 
the  Bank
by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first Principal  Payment Date;  and
(b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to which a  Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal  Payment Date 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

On each  February  15  and August  15
Beginning August  15,  2017 
through  August  15,  2029

On  February  15,  2030 

3.85%

3.75  %

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance
as of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling  after the  date of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by  the Bank  by  multiplying the amount  of each such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be adjusted,  as  necessary, to  deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the purposes  solely of calculating the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the date of withdrawal.

-8-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such
sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply to  any  withdrawals  made  after the  adoption
of such  billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2 of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate that reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines,  the  exchange rate  component of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency,  so as to produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule for each  such  amount.

-9-

APPENDIX

Section  1.  Definitions

1. 

"Cabinet"  means the Borrower's  cabinet of ministers.

3. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means  any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international 
institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has financed  or agreed  to finance  under another  loan,  credit,  or grant;

financing 

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the SITC),
or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated  by the Bank  by notice to the  Borrower:

Group 

Sub-group 

Description  of Item

112 

121 

122 

525 

667 

728 

897 

971 

718 

718.7 

728.43 

897.3 

Alcoholic  beverages

Tobacco,  un-manufactured,  tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured  (whether  or not
containing  tobacco substitutes)

Radioactive  and  associated  materials

Pearls,  precious  and semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked

Nuclear  reactors,  and  parts thereof;  fuel
elements (cartridges),  non-irradiated,  for
nuclear reactors

Tobacco  processing  machinery

Jewelry  of gold,  silver or platinum  group
metals  (except watches  and watch cases)
and  goldsmiths'  or  silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)

Gold,  non-monetary  (excluding  gold  ores
and concentrates)

(c) 

for  goods 
consumption;

intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for 

luxury

-10-

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for environmentally  hazardous  goods, the  manufacture,  use  or import of which  is
prohibited  under  the  laws  of the  Borrower  or  international  agreements  to  which
the Borrower  is  a  party;

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the  United Nations;
and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of  the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  address
such practices  when  they occur.

"General  Conditions"  means 
and
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated July 31,  2010,  with  the modifications
set  forth  in  Section  II  of this Appendix.

"International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

the 

5. 

"MCSAR"  means the  Borrower's Ministry  of Civil  Service  and Administrative  Reforms.

"MOFED"  means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance and  Economic  Development.

"MoSIEE"  means 
Empowerment.

the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Social 

Integration  and  Economic

"NEF" means  the  National  Empowerment  Foundation,  a  not-for-profit  public  company
established  in  July  2008  to  implement  the  Borrower's  Empowerment  Program  and  other
poverty-targeted  programs.

"OPSG"  means  the  Office  of  Public  Sector  Governance  established  within  the
Borrower's  Office  of Prime Minister to provide  leadership,  coordination  and  cohesion  for
the implementation  and monitoring  of public sector  reform  initiatives.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  improve
the  performance  of the  public  sector  in  order  to  strengthen  its  ability  to  support  and
empower  the vulnerable  and  enhance economic  competitiveness,  and  set  forth  or referred
to  in  the  letter  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank,  dated  February  8,  2012,  declaring  the
Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from
the Bank in support of the  Program  during  its execution.

"Revised  Kyoto  Convention"  means  the  International  Convention  on  the  Simplification
and  Harmonization  of  Customs  Procedures,  dated  June  1999,  adopted  by  the  World
force  on
Customs  Organization 
February  3, 2006.

(WCO)  Council, 

and  which 

entered 

into 

"Scheme  of  Service"  means  a  scheme  of service  pertaining  to  a  public  office  in  the
Borrower's  civil  service,  giving  details  of  the  salary,  qualifications,  and  duties  and
responsibilities,  of  the  office  to  which  the  scheme  of  service  applies,  and,  where
appropriate,  the mode  of appointment.

4. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of
Schedule  I to  this Agreement.

"Social  Register of Mauritius"  or "SRM"  means  a social register  designed  to  serve as the
basis  for  an  integrated  database  for poverty-targeted  programs,  and  to  be  used  as  a  key
policy  design  and  planning  tool  to  allow  for  better  coordination  and  more  effective
poverty  monitoring than  would otherwise  be the case  among programs.

"SOE" means state-owned  enterprise.

"Trade  Portal"  means  an  online  tool  in  the  form  of a website  designed  to  provide  easy
access  to  information  on  relevant  legal  and  regulatory  trade  measures  for  the  benefit  of
importers  and  exporters  alike,  thus  facilitating  exchange  of information  on  all  relevant
trade procedures  and  requirements  among  stakeholders.

Section  II.  Modifications  to  the General Conditions

The modifications  to the  General  Conditions are  as follows:

The  last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections  2.04  (Designated Accounts) and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted  in their
entirety,  and  the remaining  Sections in Article  II  are renumbered  accordingly.

Sections  5.01  (Project  Execution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements;  Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the remaining  Sections  in
Article  V are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above  and
relating  to  Use of Goods, Works  and Services) is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above)  is
modified to  read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

... 
The  Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  (contracts, orders,  invoices,
bills,  receipts and other  documents) evidencing  expenditures  under the  Loan  until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives to examine  such  records."

6. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above)  is
modified to  read  as follows:

Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  prepare,  or cause  to  be  prepared,  and  furnish
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of such

- 12  -

scope and  in such  detail  as the Bank shall  reasonably  request,  on  the execution  of
the  Program, 
the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment
of the purposes  of the  Loan.

7. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or deleted  as
follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in  alphabetical  order  to
the Appendix  as follows,  with the terms  being renumbered  accordingly:

(a) 

The definition  of the term  "Eligible  Expenditure"  is modified to read  as follows:

"'Eligible  Expenditure'  means any  use to which  the Loan  is put  in support of the
Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant  to  the  Loan
Agreement."

(b) 

The term  "Financial  Statements"  and  its  definition  are deleted  in  their entirety.

(c) 

The  term  "Project"  is  modified  to  read  "Program"  and  its  definition  is  modified
to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  "Project"  throughout  these  General
Conditions are  deemed  to be  references  to  "Program"):

"'Program'  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of
which  the  Loan  is made."

