OFFicIAL
BOCUMENTS.

LOAN  NUMBER  8234-CN

Loan Agreement

(Jiangxi Poyang Lake Basin and  Ecological  Economic  Zone
Small Town Development  Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

A1 

,2013

LOAN  NUMBER  8234-CN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

, 2013,  between  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF
CHINA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower and the Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I-  GENERAL  CONDMONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01. 

in 

this  Agreement, 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions set forth  or referred
to 
the  amount  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  million  Dollars
($150,000,000),  as such  amount  may be  converted from  time  to  time through  a Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I to  this  Agreement
("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw the  proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent

(0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate  equal  to
the Reference  Rate  for the Loan  Currency plus the Variable Spread;  provided, that upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan, the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty  days, then  the
interest  payable  by  the Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02
(e)  of the  General Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates are March  15  and September  15  in  each  year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set  forth  in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the
interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or any portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal.  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread  to a Variable  Rate  based on a Fixed Reference  Rate  and the
Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate based  on  a Variable  Spread  to a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  by the establishment  of
an Interest  Rate Cap or  Interest Rate Collar  on the Variable Rate or the Reference
Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the General Conditions  and of the  Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III -PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project to  be carried  out  by  the Project  Implementing  Entity  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions  and  the  Project
Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project is  carried out in accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90) days after  the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is  its  Minister of Finance.

5.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's  Republic  of China

-2-

Facsimile:
(86-10)  6855-1125

5.03. 

The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Beijing, People's  Republic of China, as of the day and year first above  written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title: 

a,S

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title: 

** 

_ 

^ 

-

By

By

-3-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective of the Project is to improve  key public  services  in participating  small towns

of Jiangxi Province through  improvements  to prioritized  infrastructure.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A. 

Transport Infrastructure Improvement

1. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

1. 

Construction  and upgrading  of urban  and country  roads  in  selected  counties  and cities  of
Jiangxi  Province  including,  inter alia: (a)  pavement  of road  base;  (b)  construction  and
rebuilding of cross  river bridges  and culverts;  (c)  layout of urban sanitary pipelines,  urban
drainage  pipelines,  and electric  cable;  (d)  construction  of greenbelt  and  bus stops;  and (e)
other urban road ancillary  facilities.

2. 

Construction  of a new urban  central bus  station in Gongqingcheng  City.

Part B. 

Water Resources  Management Infrastructure

Improvement  of  flood  protection  and  drainage  services  in  urban  city  areas  of Jiangxi
Province,  including:  (a) strengthening  of dikes;  (b)  construction  of major urban  drainage
pumping  stations;  (c)  provision  of access  roads  for dike  systems;  (d)  provision  of cross
dike  structures;  and (e)  beautification  and landscaping  along  rivers.

Construction  of wastewater  and  storm  water  collection  pipes,  including  the  construction
of wastewater and  storm water collection pipes.

Construction  of  a  water  supply  and  treatment  plant  in  Luxi  County,  including  the
construction  of associated  urban  reticulation  works.

in  Jiangxi
Restoration  and  protection  of  wetland  areas  along  the  Mianjiang  River 
Province,  including:  (a) the restoration and protection  of wetland;  and  (b) the  provision of
environmental  education  facilities to local  residents.

Part C. 

Project Management  and Capacity Building

Improving  the  institutional  capacity  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  Project
Participants  to  plan,  design,  construct,  and  sustainably  manage  modem,  high  quality
in  the  areas  of
infrastructure  for  the  delivery  of  improved  services,  particularly 
transportation,  water  resources  management  through,  inter  alia: (a)  the  provision  of
technical,  managerial,  and financial  skills training  for  government  staff at  the  provincial
and  county/city  levels;  (b)  provision  of  technical  assistance  for  the  development  of
and  (c)  upgrade  of
transportation  plans,  flash  flood  prevention  and  management 
integrated transportation  systems  in Gongqingcheng City.

-4-

2. 

Supporting the  overall  development  of the  Project Implementing  Entity to coordinate  and
manage  the  implementation  of the Project,  including the establishment  and operation  of a
system,  and  the
management 
the  purchase  of  office
establishment  of  Project  management  offices 
equipment).

information  system,  a  monitoring  and  evaluation 

(including 

-5-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section  L 

Financing and Implementation Arrangements

Financing Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

For the purposes  of carrying  out of the Project,  the Borrower  shall  make available  to  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  the proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from time  to  time  to  the
Categories  set forth  in the table  in  Section  IV of this Schedule,  on the following principal
terms:

The principal  amount shall be made  available  in Dollars or any  other Currency  as
the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion
(such principal  amount determined  on the date,  or  respective  dates, of withdrawal
from  the Loan Account)  of the value  of the currency  or  currencies so withdrawn.

The  principal  amount  so  made  available  (including  an  amount  equal  to the  fee
paid  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of this  Agreement  and  any  premium  for  Interest
Rate  Caps  or  Interest Rate  Collars  paid  pursuant  Section  4.05(c) of the  General
Conditions)  shall  be  recovered  over  a  period  of twenty  five  (25)  years,  inclusive
of a grace period  of eight  (8)  years.

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of interest  applicable  from  time  to
time to the Loan  pursuant  to the provisions  of Section 2.04  of this  Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (a)  manage,  operate,
monitor,  transfer  and reconcile  the proceeds  of the Loan  made  available  to  it  pursuant to
paragraph  I  above  in  accordance  with  arrangements  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  (b)  take  all required  actions,  including provision  of timely  consents  and approvals
as  may  be  necessary,  to  facilitate  the  utilization  of  said  Loan  proceeds  and  the
implementation  of the Project  and,  to  enable  the  Project Implementing  Entity to  comply
with  its  undertakings  under the  Project Agreement;  and  (c)  maintain  all  relevant  records
and documents  related  to the Loan and the Project  and  provide promptly  such  documents
and records,  including  all other  information,  as  may be requested  by  the  Borrower or the
Bank from  time to time.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  including  the  provisions  thereof  that  are
applicable  to the recipients  of Loan proceeds  other than the Borrower.

-6-

C. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  take,  and  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  take,  all
measures  necessary  to  comply  with,  or  all  measures  necessary  to  enable  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  the  Project  Participants  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of
Section I.C  of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

Section  H1. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the
progress  of the  Project  and prepare  Project Reports  in-accordance  with  the  provisions of
Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the
Bank  and  set  forth  in  the  Project  Implementation  Plan.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover
the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and shall  be  furnished  to  the Bank  not  later  than  45
days after the end  of the period  covered by such  report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain or cause to be  maintained  a financial  management  system  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 5.09  of the General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
the  Project  Implementing  Entity to prepare  and furnish to  the Bank,  as  part  of the Project
Report,  not later than  45  days  after  the end  of each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited
financial  reports  for  the Project covering  the semester,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory
to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  its  Financial
Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the General
Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal
year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished to the Bank  not later  than six months  after the end of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the  Project and  to be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall
be procured  in accordance with the requirements  set forth  or referred to  in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth or referred to  in Sections  I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines  and
with the  provisions of this  Section.

-7-

A. 

1. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the corresponding  method described in Sections  II and  ffl  of the Procurement  Guidelines,
or Sections  II,  m, IV  and V  of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the  basis of International  Competitive Bidding.

table  specifies 

Other Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services.  The
International
following 
Competitive  Bidding,  which may  be used  for  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services.
The  Procurement Plan shall  specify the  circumstances  under which such  methods  may be
used.

the  methods  of  procurement,  other 

than 

Procurement Methods
(a) 

In  addition,  the  procedures  to  be
National  Competitive  Bidding. 
followed  for  National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  set  forth  in
the  Law  on Tendering  and  Bidding  of the  People's  Republic  of China
promulgated  by  Order  No.  21  of the  President of the People's  Republic
of China on August 30,  1999, with  the following clarifications  required
for compliance  with  the Procurement  Guidelines:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  territory,
except  for  civil works  contracts that  are  estimated cost  less than
$2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods  contracts  that  are
estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which
in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such
may  be  advertised 
advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective
bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and
prepare  and submit their  responses.  In any event,  a minimum of
thirty (30)  days  shall  be  given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of
for
advertisement 
the  advertisement  and  bidding
submission  of  bids,  and 
documents  shall specify the deadline  for such submission.

in  such  newspaper  and 

the  deadline 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of
evaluating  the  qualification  of each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in
detail in the bidding documents.

All  bidders  that meet the qualification  criteria  set  out  in the pre-
qualification  document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there  shall
be  no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders.

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount
sufficient  to  protect  the  Borrower  or the  Project  Implementing
Entity, as the  case  may be,  in  case of breach  of contract  by  the
contractor,  and the bidding documents  shall  specify the  required
form  and amount of such security.

Bidders  will  be  allowed  to submit  bids by  mail  or by  hand. The
time  for opening of all  bids shall be  the same  as the  deadline for
receipt  of such  bids.

All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be  offered
an  opportunity to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their
representatives)  at the time  of bid  opening,  but bidders  shall not
be  required  to be present at the  bid opening.

(vii) 

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding
documents  and quantified  in monetary terms  or expressed  in the
form of pass/fail requirements.

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price
falls  outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or
bracket  of  average  bids  established  by  the  Borrower  or  the
Project Implementing Entity,  as the case may be.

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded 
to  the  lowest  evaluated
responsive  bidder, that  is,  the bidder  who meets  the appropriate
standards  of capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The
winning  bidder  shall  not be required, as a condition  of award, to
undertake  responsibilities  for work not  stipulated  in the bidding
documents  or  otherwise 
the  bid  as  originally
submitted.

to  modify 

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall
provide that the  suppliers and contractors  shall  permit the  Bank,
at  its  request, to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to
the  performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and
records  audited by  auditors  appointed  by the Bank.

Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower's  territory may
be  permitted  to  bid  or submit  a  proposal  of goods  and  works  if
they  can  establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially
autonomous;  (B)  operate  under commercial  law;  and (C)  are  not
a dependent  agency of the agency conducting  the procurement.

(xii) 

All  bids  should  not  be  rejected  solely  because  the  number  of

-9-

bids  is  less  than  three  (3),  and  rejection  of all  bids  or  rebidding
shall  not 
the  Bank's  prior  written
concurrence.

take  place  without 

(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be
published  in  the  national  press  or provincial  press  (as  provided
under sub-paragraph  (i)  above)  or official  gazette  or  a  free and
open  access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered
price  of  the  winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and
summary  scope  of the awarded contract.

(xiv)  The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall have  in  place  provisions

for  bidders to protest.

(b) 

(c) 

Shopping

Direct Contracting

C. 

Particular  Methods of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except as  otherwise provided  in paragraph  2 below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of Quality-
and Cost-based  Selection.

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-and  Cost-based  Selection,
which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the
circumstances  under which  such methods  may be used:

Procurement  Methods

(a)  Quality-Based  Selection

(b) 

Selection  Based on the Consultants'  Qualifications

(c) 

Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(d) 

Single Source  Selection  (Firm and  Individual)

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject to  the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

-10-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of Article II  of the  General-Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including 
the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May 2006,  as  revised  from  time  to time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible Expenditures  as set forth in the table in  paragraph  2 below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the allocation  of the  amounts  of
the Loan  to each  Category, and the percentage  of expenditures to  be  financed  for Eligible
Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

(1) Works 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 
144,835,000 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
68%

(2) 
Goods, 
services  and Training
(3)  Front-end  Fee 

Consultants' 

4,790,000 

375,000 

100%

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement  in  accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the General
Conditions

of 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

150,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section  no withdrawal  shall  be  made  in
respect of payments  made prior to the date  of this  Agreement,  except that withdrawals  up
to an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed  $30,000,000  equivalent  may be  made  for payments
made prior to this date  but on or after January  1, 2013,  for all Eligible  Expenditures.

2. 

The  Closing Date is December 31,  2018.

-11-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization  Schedule

I. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have  been fully withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as  of the  first Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as necessary, to deduct any amounts  referred to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to  which a Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

September  15,  2021 
March  15,  2022 
September  15,  2022 
March  15,  2023 
September  15,  2023 
March  15,  2024 
September  15,  2024 
March  15,  2025 
September  15,  2025 
March  15,  2026 
September  15,  2026 
March  15,  2027 
September  15,  2027 
March  15,  2028 
September  15,  2028 
March  15,  2029 
September  15,  2029 
March  15,  2030 
September  15,  2030 
March  15,  2031 
September  15,  2031 
March  15,  2032 
September  15, 2032 
March  15,  2033 
September  15,  2033 
March  15,  2034 
September  15,  2034 

Installment Share
(Expressed as  a Percentage)
1.90%
1.95%
2.00%
2.05%
2.10%
2.15%
2.20%
2.26%
2.32%
2.37%
2.43%
2.49%
2.56%
2.62%
2.69%
2.75%
2.82%
2.89%
2.96%
3.04%
3.11%
3.19%
3.27%
3.35%
3.44%
3.52%
3.61%

-12-

March  15,  2035 
September  15,  2035 
March  15,2036 
September  15,  2036 
March  15,  2037 
September  15,  2037 
March  15,  2038 

3.70%
3.79%
3.89%
3.99%
4.09%
4.19%
4.31%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date,  the  Borrower shall  repay the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as of such date in accordance  with paragraph  1 of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the first Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment Date falling after the  date  of such withdrawal  in  amounts
determined by the Bank by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction, the  numerator of which  is the original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in paragraph  1 of this  Schedule  for said  Principal Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date shall,  for the purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be repayable  on each  Principal  Payment Date  commencing
with the second  Principal  Payment  Date following the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank  adopts  a  due date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment Date  occurring  during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion  by either:  (i) the exchange  rate that reflects  the amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction

-13-

relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines, the exchange  rate component  of the Screen  Rate.
If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency, so  as to produce  a separate amortization  schedule for each  such amount.

5. 

-14-

APPENDIX

Section  L  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits  and Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006 and revised  in  January 2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits  and Grants  by  World  Bank Borrowers"
dated  January  2011.

"County/City  Project  Management  Office"  means  a  county/city 
level  Project
management  office,  established  by  each  Project  Participant  and  to  be  maintained
according to the provisions  of paragraph  A. 1(c)  of Section  I of the Schedule  to the Project
Agreement.

"Displaced  Persons"  means persons who,  on account  of the execution  of the Project,  have
experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused  by:  (a) the
involuntary taking  of land, resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets
or  access  to  assets;  or (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not
such persons  must move to  another location;  or  (b) the involuntary restriction  of access  to
legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting 
impacts  on  the
livelihood  of  such  persons;  and  a  "Displaced  Person"  means  any  of  such  Displaced
Persons.

in  adverse 

"Environmental  Codes  of  Practice"  or  the  acronym  "ECOPs"  means  the  detailed
practices  to  address  construction  related  impacts  of the  Project implementation,  included
in the EMP.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  the  acronym  "EMP"  means  the  Environmental
Management  Plan  dated  October  29,  2012,  adopted  by  the Project  Implementing  Entity,
which  plan  sets  out  the  environmental  protection  measures  in  respect  of the  Project,  as
well as administrative  and monitoring  arrangements  to ensure  the implementation  of said
plan,  as  said  plan  may  be revised  from time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of
the  Bank,  and such term  includes  all schedules  and agreements  supplemental  thereto.

"Financial  Management  Manual"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  manual,
included 
in  the  Project  Implementation  Plan,  setting  out  financial  management,
disbursement,  and  audit  procedures  to  be  observed  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project
consistent  with the provisions  in  Section  I.B of Schedule  2 to the Loan  Agreement.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions for Loans", dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

-15-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

"Mianjiang  River  EIA"  means  the  environmental  impact  assessment  dated  October  29,
2012,  adopted  by the  Project Implementing  Entity, which plan  sets out the  environmental
protection  measures in respect  of the Project activities to take place  in the  Ruijin wetland,
as  well  as administrative  and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure  the  implementation  of
said  instruments,  as  said  instruments  may  be  revised  from  time  to time  with  the  prior
written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements
supplemental thereto.
"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits  and Grants  by World Bank
Borrowers"  dated January 2011.
"Procurement  Manual"  means  the Project  Implementing Entity's manual,  included  in the
Project  Implementation  Plan,  setting out the  procurement  methods  and  procedures  to  be
observed in the carrying out of the Project.
"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
November  19,  2012 and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to
time  in accordance  with the provisions of said paragraphs.

the  Bank  and  the  Project
the  agreement  between 
"Project  Agreement"  means 
Implementing  Entity  of even  date  herewith, as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time;  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  the  Project
Agreement.

(which 

includes 

the  plan 

Implementation  Plan''  means 

the  Financial
"Project 
Management  Manual,  the  Procurement  Manual,  the  Procurement  Plan,  the  Mianjing
River  EIA,  the  EMP  and  ECOPs,  the  RAPs,  the  Project  performance  indicators,
provisions  to  be  followed  with  regard  to  dam  safety  standards  and  dam  management
under the  Project,  technical  models,  and  other  operational  arrangements  for  the  Project)
dated December  31,  2012,  prepared  by the  Project Implementing  Entity, and  referred  to
in paragraph  2  of Section  I.A of the  Schedule to the  Project Agreement, as the same may
be revised from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank.
"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the Borrower's  Jiangxi  Province,  or any  successor
thereto.
"Project  Leading  Groups"  means  the  groups  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1(a)  of  the
Schedule to the  Project  Agreement,  and organized  as follows:  (a)  at the  provincial  level,
the  group  shall  be  chaired  by  the  relevant  provincial  Vice-Governor,  along  with  the
limitation:  the
leaders  of  the  relevant  provincial  departments  (including,  without 
the  Transport
the  Finance  Department, 
Development  and  Reform  Commission, 
the  Flood  Protection  office,  the
Department, 
institutions  and/or  agencies  as
Environmental  Protection  Department,  and  other 
appropriate);  and  (b)  at the  county/city  level,  the group  shall be  chaired  by the respective

the  Water  Resources  Department, 

-16-

county/city  Mayor  or  relevant  Vice  Mayor,  along  with  the  leaders  of  the  relevant
institutions and/or agencies  at the county/city level,  as  appropriate.

18. 

"Project  Participants"  means,  collectively,  the  following  counties  and  cities  of Jiangxi's
Province  participating  in  the  Project,  and  selected  by  agreement  between  the  Bank,  the
Project  Implementing  Entity and the respective  Project Participant:

19. 

20. 

(a)  Jinxian  County;  (b)  Luxi  County;  (c)  Jiujiang  County;  (d)  Gongqingcheng  City;  (e)
Ganxian  County;  (f)  Ruijin  City;  (g)  Jinggangshan  City;  (h)  Yifeng County;  (i) Nanfeng
County;  (j) Dexing  City and (k)  Hengfeng County;

provided that the list of such Project Participants  may be amended  from  time  to time  with
the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank;  and  "Project  Participant"  means,  individually,
any of such  Project Participants.

"Provincial  Project Management  Office" means  the office  referred  to  in  Section  I.A. 1(b)
of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  chaired  by  the  Director-General  or  Deputy
Director-General  of the provincial  Development  and  Reform  Commission,  and composed
by  officials  and  experts  from  the  different  departments, 
institutions  and  agencies
represented  in  the provincial  Project Leading  Group.

"Resettlement  Action  Plans"  or  the  acronym  "RAPs"  means,  collectively,  the  following
plans  which  set  out the  principles  and  procedures  governing  the  acquisition  of land  and
other  assets,  and  the  resettlement,  compensation  and  rehabilitation  of Displaced  Persons
on  account  of  the  execution  of  the  Project,  as  well  as  monitoring  and  reporting
arrangements  to  ensure  compliance  with  said  plans,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from
time to time  with the prior agreement  of the Bank:

(a) Consolidated  RAP of Jiangxi  Province,  dated September  29, 2012;  (b)  RAP of Jinxian
County,  dated  August  17,  2012;  (c)  RAP  of Luxi  County,  dated  August  17,  2012;  (d)
RAP  of Jiujiang  County,  dated  August  17,  2012;  (e) RAP  of Gongqingcheng  City, dated
September  29,  2012;  (f)  RAP  of Ganxian  County,  dated  September  29, 2012;  (g)  RAP of
Ruijin City, dated  August  17,  2012;  (h) RAP  of Jinggangshan  City, dated  September  29,
2012;  (i) RAP  of Yifeng  County, dated  September 29, 2012;  ()  RAP  of Nanfeng  County,
dated  September  29,  2012;  (k)  RAP  of Dexing City,  dated August  17,  2012;  and (1) RAP
of Hengfeng County,  dated August  17,  2012.

The acronym "RAP"  means, individually,  any such plan.

21. 

"Training"  means  training  activities  under  the Project,  based  on  annual  work  plans  and
budgets  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,  workshops,  and  domestic
and  overseas  study  trips  and  training.  The  related  costs  include  travel  and  subsistence
allowances  for  training  participants,  services  of  trainers,  rental  of  training  facilities,
preparation  and  reproduction  of training  materials,  and  other  activities  directly  related  to
course  preparation  and  implementation.

-17-

