OFFICIAL
WOCUMEANYS

LOAN  NUMBER  7532  MK

Assumed  and Amended
Loan Agreement

(Regional  and  Local  Roads  Program  Support Project)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE  FOR  STATE  ROADS

Dated 

t 

.

11, 

2013

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  7532  MK

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

&t" 

7?' 

,2013  between  the

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank")  and  PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE  FOR  STATE  ROADS ("Borrower")  a public
enterprise  established  and  operating  under the laws  of the former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia ("Guarantor")  pursuant  to the Guarantor's  Decision  number  41-10147/1  of
December  28,  2012 (Official  Gazette  1/13).  The  Borrower and the  Bank  hereby
agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to 

this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this  Agreement.

terms  used  in 

the  capitalized 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of seventy million  Euro  (E70,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this  Agreement
to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  this
("Loan"), 
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section

IV  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for each  Interest Period  shall  be  at  a rate  equal
to LIBOR  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the  principal  amount  of the Loan,  the  interest
payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be
determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the
General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment
continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower

shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.05.  The  Payment  Dates are  March  15  and September  15  in  each  year.

2.06. The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 

in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any of the  following Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  and  (ii) a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all  or
any  portion  of the  principal  amount of the Loan  from a  Variable Rate  to  a
Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

2.08  Without 

limitation  upon 

the  provisions  of  Section  5.10  of  the  General
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information
relating  to  the  provisions  of this  Article  II as  the  Bank  may,  from  time  to  time,
reasonably  request.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out the Project  in accordance  with  the provisions  of
Article V  of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV  - REMEDIES  OF  THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
Decision  or  the  by-laws  of  the  Borrower  governing  the  Borrower's  activities
have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived,  or the  Guarantor
shall  have  enacted  new  legislation  or  issued  new  directives,  so  as  to  affect

-3-

materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under this  Agreement.

4.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following:  namely  that  the
event  specified  in  Section 4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Director.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Public  Enterprise  for State  Roads
Dame Gruev  14
1000 Skopje

5.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction
and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Facsimile:

+389  232  20535

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Skopje,  as  of the day  and  year first  above  written.

PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE  FOR  STATE  ROADS

By

Title: 

Aut  orized Representative

Name: 

/  U 

to 

'

P///FP

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Name: 

Title: 

Authorized  Representative

/f 

ts&,

Of 
1 

as

-5- 

4.- 

k

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  reduce  the  cost  of safe  access  to  markets  and
services  for communities  served  by  regional  and  local  roads  in  the  Guarantor's  territory,
and  to  improve  institutional  capacity  for  investment planning and  road  safety.

The  Project  consists  of the following parts:

Part  1:  Rehabilitation  and Periodic  Maintenance  of Regional  Roads

Carrying  out  localized  repairs,  periodic  maintenance  and rehabilitation  works  on

about  284  km  of selected  regional  road  sections.

Part  11:  Rehabilitation  and  Periodic  Maintenance  of Local  Roads

Carrying  out  localized  repairs  and  various  types  of rehabilitation  and  upgrading
works  on  about  420  km  of  selected  paved  and  unpaved  local  roads,  including  the
preparation  of the  bidding  documents  relating  thereto  through  the  provision  of technical
advisory  services.

Part  III: Institutional  Support

Strengthening  the  Guarantor's  and  the  Borrower's  capacity  to  manage  and
1. 
maintain  the road  network  through  the provision  of:  (i)  advisory  services  to  the Borrower
and  the MTC;  (ii)  Training to  the staff of the Borrower  and  the MTC;  and  (iii)  office  and
information  and technology  equipment, and vehicles.

2. 

Carrying  out the  financial  and technical  audits  for the Project.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  Project  implementation  and  for
procurement,  financial  management,  disbursement  and  monitoring,  and reporting
for  the  entire  Project.  To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  adequate  staff
and  resources,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  shall  maintain  adequate
management,  with terms  of reference  and  a  composition  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  select  the  local  roads  to  be  improved  under  Part  II of the
Project  based  on  proposals  made  by  municipalities,  and  in  accordance  with  the
Project  Operational  Manual.

3. 

The Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

within  eighteen  (18)  months  of  the  Effective  Date,  have  completed
implementation  of an  Enterprise  Resources  Planning  (ERP)  System,  in
form  and scope  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;

within  twelve (12)  months  of the Effective  Date,  have  (i)  completed  a  road
inventory  and  condition  survey  of  its  Core  Road  Network;  and  (ii)
established  a  Road  Asset  Management  System  for  its  road  network,  each
in  form,  substance  and scope  satisfactory  to the  Bank;  and

by  July  30,  2013,  have  submitted  a  proposal  for  a  Five-year  Strategic
for  the  period  2013  to  2017  for  adoption  by  the  Guarantor's
Program 
government,  and  shall  update  such  program  on  a  yearly  basis.  The  annual
program  and  budget  of  the  Borrower  for  each  respective  year  shall  be
consistent  with  such  Five-year  Strategic  Program,  as  adopted  by  the
Guarantor's  government,  for that respective  year.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

C. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

-7-

The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  take  all  necessary  measures  to  implement  the  Project  in
accordance  with  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  the  SEA,  the  EAMF,  the  RPF,
the  EIAs,  the  EMPs  and  the  RAPs,  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,
repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of the  Project  Operational  Manual,  the  SEA,  the
EAMF,  the  RPF,  the  EIAs,  the  EMPs  and  the  RAPs,  without  prior  approval  of
the Bank;  and  (ii)  ensure  that  adequate  information  on the  implementation  of the
SEA,  the  EAMF,  the RPF, the EIAs,  the EMPs  and the RAPs  is  suitably  included
in  the  Project  Reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.A.1  of this  Schedule,  and  in  the
report referred  to in  Section  II.A.2  (a) of this  Schedule  2.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  all  measures  identified  and described  in  the SEA,
the EAMF  and the RPF are  taken  in  a timely  manner.

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

prior  to commencing  civil  works  for  any  specific  road  section  and  when
required  under  the  EAMF,  carry  out  an  EIA  in  form  and  in  substance
satisfactory  to the Bank;

in  the event  that  an  EIA  determines  that such  civil  works,  if carried  out,
for  adverse
in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  a  potential 
would  have 
environmental  impact,  not  approve  the  carrying  out  of such  civil  works
until  an  appropriate  EMP  under  the  EAMF  has  been  prepared  by  the
Borrower  and  agreed  upon  by  the  Bank  to  mitigate  such  potential
negative  impact;  and

(c) 

thereafter  carry out  such  EMP.

Prior  to  commencement  of civil  works  for  any  specific  road  section  involving
involuntary  resettlement  or  involuntary  acquisition  of  land,  the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  implement  appropriate  an  RAP  or  RAPs,  as  the  case  may  be,  for
compensation,  or  resettlement,  in  accordance  with  the  RPF,  such  RAP  or  RAPs
to be  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

2. 

3. 

4. 

Financial  Covenants

D. 

1. 

(a) 

Except as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  beginning  December  31,  2013,
the  Borrower  shall  not  incur  any  debt  unless  a  reasonable  forecast  of the
revenues  and  expenditures  of the  Borrower  shows  that  the estimated  net
revenues  of the  Borrower  for each  fiscal  year  during  the term  of the  debt
to  be  incurred  shall  be  at  least  1.2  times  the  estimated  debt  service
requirements  of the  Borrower  in  such  year  on  all  debt  of the  Borrower
including  the debt to  be  incurred.

(b) 

For the purposes  of this  Section:

-8-

(i) 

(ii) 

term  "debt"  means  any 

indebtedness  of  the  Borrower
The 
maturing  by  its  terms  more  than one  year after  the date  on which
it is  originally  incurred.

Debt  shall  be  deemed  to  be  incurred:  (A)  under a  loan  contract  or
agreement  or  other  instrument  providing  for such  debt  or  for  the
modification  of its  terms  of payment  on the date  of such  contract,
agreement  or  instrument;  and  (B)  under  a  guarantee  agreement,
on  the date  the  agreement providing  for  such  guarantee  has  been
entered  into.

(iii) 

The term  "net revenues"  means  the difference  between:

(A) 

(B) 

(A) 

(B) 

the  sum  of  revenues 
operations  and net non-operating  income;  and

from  all  sources  related 

to

the  sum  of all  expenses  related  to  operations  including
and
administration, 
payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision  for
depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating  charges  and
interest  and other  charges  on debt.

adequate  maintenance, 

taxes 

(iv) 

The  term  "net  non-operating 
between:

income"  means  the  difference

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to
operations;  and

expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes,
incurred  in  the generation  of revenues  in (A)  above.

(v) 

(vi) 

The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate
amount  of repayments  (including  sinking fund  payments,  if any)
of, and  interest  and other  charges  on,  debt.

The  term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a  forecast  prepared  by  the
Borrower  not  earlier  than  twelve  months  prior to  the  incurrence
of the  debt  in  question,  which  both  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower
accept  as  reasonable  and  as  to  which  the  Bank  has  notified  the
that  no  event  has
Borrower  of  its  acceptability,  provided 
occurred  since such  notification  which  has,  or  may  reasonably  be
expected  in  the  future  to  have,  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the
financial  condition  or future  operating  results  of the Borrower.

-9-

(vii)  Whenever  for the purposes  of this  Section  it  shall be  necessary  to
value,  in  terms  of the currency  of the  Guarantor,  debt  payable  in
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of
the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the
purposes  of servicing  such  debt,  or,  in  the  absence  of such  rate,
on  the basis of a rate  of exchange  acceptable  to the Bank.

2. 

(a) 

Except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  beginning  December  31,  2013,
the  Borrower  shall  maintain  a  ratio  of current  assets  to  current  liabilities
of not  less than  1.

(b) 

(c) 

Before  June  30 in  each  of its  fiscal  years,  the Borrower  shall,  on  the  basis
of  forecasts  prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
review  whether  it  would  meet  the requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)
in  respect  of  such  year  and  the  next  following  fiscal  year  and  shall
furnish  to the Bank the results  of such review  upon  its  completion.

that  the  Borrower  would  not  meet  the
If  any  such  review  shows 
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the  Borrower's  fiscal  years
covered  by  such  review,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  take  all  necessary
measures  (including,  without  limitation,  adjustments  of the  structure  or
levels of its  rates)  in  order to  meet  such  requirements.

(d) 

For the purposes  of this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

The  term  "current  assets"  means  cash,  all  assets  which  could  in
the  ordinary  course  of business  be  converted  into  cash  within
receivable,  marketable
twelve  months, 
securities,  inventories  and pre-paid  expenses  properly  chargeable
to  operating  expenses  within the  next  fiscal  year.

including  account 

The  term  "current  liabilities"  means  all  liabilities  which  will
become  due  and  payable  or  could  under  circumstances  then
existing  be  called  for  payment  within  twelve  months,  including
accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  debt  service  requirements,
taxes  and payments  in  lieu  of taxes,  and dividends.

The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate
amount  of repayments  (including  sinking  fund  payments,  if any)
of, and interest  and  other charges  on,  debt.

Whenever  for the  purposes  of this  Section  it shall  be  necessary  to
value,  in  terms  of the  currency  of the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of

- 10-

the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other
is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the
currency 
purposes  of servicing  such  debt,  or,  in  the  absence  of such  rate,
on the basis  of a rate  of exchange  acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

The Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate the  progress  of the  Project  and prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  year,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the
Bank not  later  than one month  after  the end of the period  covered  by such  report.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  in  paragraph  I  of this  Sub-section,  the
Borrower  shall:

prepare,  under terms  of reference  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  and furnish  to
(a) 
the  Bank,  eighteen  (18)  months  after the  Effective  Date  or  such  later  date  as  the
Bank  shall  determine,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and
evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  I  of this  Section,  on  the
progress  achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  during  the  period  preceding
the  date  of said  report  and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the
efficient  carrying  out  of the Project  and the  achievement  of the objective  thereof
during the period  following  such date;  and

review  with  the  Bank,  nineteen  (19)  months  after  the  Effective  Date  or
(b) 
such  later date  as  the Bank  shall  determine,  the  report  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)
of this  Section,  and,  thereafter,  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient
completion  of the Project  and  the  achievement  of the  objective  thereof, based  on
the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of the  said  report  and the  Bank's  views  on
the matter.

Financial Management,  Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)
days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

-I11-

3. 

4. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  not later  than six (6)  months  after the end of such  period.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  entity  financial  statements  audited  by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  audit  of these  financial  statements  shall
cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower,  and  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  its  audited  entity  financial  statements  for  each  period  shall  be:  (a)
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  end  of the  period;
and (b)  made  publicly  available  in  a timely  fashion  and  in  a manner  acceptable  to
the Bank.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Works.  All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
and  with  the provisions  of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with  the provisions  of this Section.

in  this  Section  to  describe
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below 
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
in  the  Procurement
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Guidelines,  or  Consultant Guidelines,  as  the case  may  be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Works

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2 below,  goods and  works  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on the basis
of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive
Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods  and  works.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall
specify the circumstances  under which  such methods  may be  used.

- 12-

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

C. 

1. 

2. 

Procurement Method

National  Competitive  Bidding
Shopping
Direct  Contracting

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the circumstances  under which  such  methods may  be  used.

Procurement Method

(a) 
(b) 

(c) 
(d) 

(e) 

Selection  under a  Fixed Budget
Least Cost  Selection
Selection  based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications
Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the Consultant  Guidelines  for
the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants
Sole  Source  Procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

I. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
this  Section,  and  such
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions, 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in  the  table  in paragraph  2  below.

2. 

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the

- 13  -

amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each Category.

Category 

Amount  of  the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed  in Euro) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures  to  be
Financed
(Exclusive  of Taxes)

69,825,000 

100%

Goods,  Works, 

(1) 
Consultants'  Services  and
Training  for the  Project
(2) 

Front-end  Fee 

175,000 

Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of
the General  Conditions

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

70.000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  made  prior  to  the date of this Agreement.

2. 

The  Closing Date  is  July 31,  2015.

- 14-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1.  The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a
Percentage)

On  each  March  15  and  September  15

beginning  September  15,  2013 
through  September  15,  2027

On  March  15,  2028 

3.33%

3.43%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any

- 15-

3. 

(a) 

amounts  referred  to in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
following 
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the second  Principal  Payment
Date  following  the date of withdrawal.

(b)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at
any  time  the Bank  adopts  a  due date  billing  system  under which  invoices
the
are  issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, 
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
withdrawals  made  after the adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such amount.

- 16-

APPENDIX

Definitions

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006.
"Association  of the  Municipalities"  means  the  Association  of the Units  of Local
Self-Government  of the Guarantor,  established  pursuant  to  article  15  of the  Law
on  Local  Self-Government  dated  January  24,  2002,  published  in  the  Guarantor's
Official  Gazette  No.  5,  2002,  and  operating  under  its  by-laws  dated  October 27,
2004.
"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  published  by  the  Bank in  May  2004  and
revised in  October  2006.
"Core  Road  Network"  means  such  portion  of  the  national  and  regional  road
network,  as  agreed with  the  Bank, that  comprises  the most  important  roads  in  the
Guarantor's  territory,  judging  from  the  level  of traffic  on  such  roads  and/  or  the
importance  of settlements  such roads  connect.
"Decision"  means  the  Guarantor's  Decision  on  Establishing  a  Public  Enterprise
for  State  Roads  (Decision  number  41-10147/1  of December  28,  2012  (Official
Gazette  1/13))  pursuant  to which  the Borrower was  established  and  is operating.
"EAMF"  means  the  Environmental  Assessment  and  Management  Framework,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  adopted  by  the  Guarantor  on  March  5,  2008,  and
adopted  by  the  Borrower  on  April  30,  2013,  setting  forth  procedures  for  the
environmental  screening  of the  activities  under  Part  I and Part  II  of the Project,  as
well  as details  for the carrying  out of the  ElAs and  the  preparation  of the  EMPs.

an  Environmental 

Impact  Assessment, 

including  public
"EIA"  means 
consultation,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be  carried  out,  as  the  case  may  be,  in
respect  of the activities  under Part  I or  Part  II of the  Project.
"EMP"  means  an  Environmental  Management  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to
be  prepared  by  an  independent  environmental  assessment  expert  and  adopted  by
the Borrower,  describing  the  mitigation,  monitoring  and  institutional  measures  to
be  implemented  in  order to eliminate,  offset or  reduce  any adverse  environmental
and  social aspects  in respect  of the activities  under Part  I or  Part  II  of the Project.
"Enterprise  Resources  Planning  (ERP)  System"  means  a  computerized  and
integrated  information  system  which  includes,  in  modular  form,  financial  and
legal
management  accounting,  human  resources,  project  management,  and 

- 17-

11.  "Five-year  Strategic  Program"  means 

services,  established  for  the  purpose  of  enhancing  decision  making  by  the
Borrower.

the  Borrower's  Five-year  strategic
program,  proposed  by  the  Borrower's  management  board  and  adopted  by  the
Guarantor's  government,  updated  annually,  outlining  the Borrower's  investment
plans  and  programs  over  the  plan  period  with  indications  of the human,  financial
and  organizational  resources  required  for  the  achievement  of  the  proposed
investment  plans  and  programs,  and  forming  the  basis  for  the  preparation  of the
Borrower's  annual  program  and  budget  and  determining  any  required  review  in
the Borrower's  revenue  and cost streams.
"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended
through  February  12,  2008).
"MTC"  means the  Ministry  of Transport  and  Communications  of the Guarantor,
or  any successor thereto.
"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD
Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in
October  2006.
"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  as
in  paragraph  1.16  of  the
last  updated  on  May  23,  2013,  and  referred  to 
Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the
same  shall  be  updated  from time to time  in  accordance  with the provisions  of said
paragraphs.
"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3
Schedule  2  of this  Agreement,  describing  procedures  for  implementation  of the
Project,  consistent  with  the provisions  of this  Agreement  and,  the by-laws  of the
Borrower  and  the  national  laws  and  regulations  of the  Guarantor  and  including,
inter  alia:  (i)  procedures  governing  administrative,  procurement,  accounting,
for  procurement  and
including  adequate  measures 
financial  management, 
forensic  audits,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements;  (ii)  targets  to  be
achieved  under  the Project;  (iii)  sample  formats  for  required  Project  reports;  and
(iv)  a  financial  management  manual,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time  with  the agreement  of the Bank.
"RAP"  means  a  Resettlement  Action  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be
prepared  by  an  independent  environmental  assessment  expert  and adopted  by  the
and
for 
Borrower,  describing 
rehabilitation  in  respect  of the  activities  under  Part  I or  Part  II of the  Project,  as
applicable.
"RPF"  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and
adopted  by  the  Guarantor  on  March  5,  2008,  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower
onApril  30,  2013,  outlining  the modalities  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and

land  acquisition, 

resettlement 

the  details 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

- 18-

17. 

18. 

19. 

rehabilitation  in  respect  of the  activities under  Part  I and Part  II  of the  Project,  as
well  as  details  for the preparation  of the RAPs.

"Road  Asset  Management  System"  means  a  digitized  inventory  of  the  road
network  including  information  on  its  condition  and  traffic  levels;  the  equipment
to  measure  roughness  and  deflections  of the  road  network;  data  on  unit  cost  of
road  works  and  road  user  costs,  and  other  organizational  needs  to  implement  and
utilize  such  system,  serving  as  a  tool  to  assist  decision  makers  on  planning,
programming,  monitoring  and  economic  justification  of  road  investments  and
functional
maintenance  and  assessment  of 
classification  of roads.

the  appropriateness  of 

the 

"SEA"  means  the  Sectoral  Environmental  Assessment  for  the  road  sector
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  adopted  by  the  Guarantor  on  March  5,  2008,
consisting  of,  inter  alia:  (i)  an  analysis  of  the  environmental  assessment
institutional  capacities  of  the  road  sector  of  the  Guarantor,  as  well  as
recommendations  for  improving  the  environmental  assessment  process  in  the
road  sector;  (ii)  the EAMF;  and (iii)  the RPF.
"Training"  means  training  activities  (other  than  consultants'  services)  to  be
carried  out  under  the  Project,  as  approved  by  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of annual
training  and  study  tour  plans  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  the  reasonable
and  necessary  local  and  international  travel  and  visa  expenses  incurred  by
participants  in  training  workshops,  as  well  as  lodging,  subsistence,  local  and
international  per  diem  allowances  according  to  the  guidelines  of the  Guarantor,
fees,  minor  organizational  expenses
registration, 
(including  costs  of stationery,  handouts  and  training  materials),  translation  and
interpretation  costs,  facility  rental  costs,  and  other  expenditures  directly  relating
to  the training  workshop  and study  tour activity,  as  may  be  agreed  with  the Bank.

tuition  and 

facilitators' 

- 19-

