O6FFRCIAL

LOAN  NUMBER  7532-MK

Loan Assignment  and Assumption
Agreement

FORMER  YUGOSLAV  REPUBLIC  OF MACEDONIA
(Original  Borrower)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
(Bank)

among

and

and

PUBLIC ENTERPRISE  FOR STATE  ROADS
(New  Borrower)

Dated 

12- 

, 2013

LOAN  NUMBER  7532-MK

LOAN  ASSIGNMENT  AND  ASSUMPTION  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

JL§ 

n-1 

2013,  among  the Original  Borrower,

the Bank  and the New Borrower.

WHEREAS  (A)  by  a  loan  agreement  between 

the  Original
Borrower,  dated  July  21,  2008  (the  Original  Loan  Agreement),  the  Bank  made  a  loan  to
the  Original  Borrower  in  an  amount  of seventy  million  Euro  (EUR  70,000,000)  (Loan
7532  MK)  (Loan)  on the terms and  conditions  set  forth in the Original  Loan  Agreement;

the  Bank  and 

(B) 

by  Government  Decision  number  41-10147/1  of  December  28,  2012
(Official  Gazette  1/13)  the  Original  Borrower  established  the New  Borrower,  to  replace
the Original  Borrower's  Agency  for  State  Roads,  formerly  known  as  FNRR;

(C) 

the  Original  Borrower  has  requested  to  assign  the  Loan  and  the  New
Borrower  has  agreed  to  assume  the  Loan,  and  the  Original  Borrower  and  the  New
Borrower  have  requested  the  Bank  to  agree  to  the  undertaking  by the  New  Borrower  of
all  the rights  and  obligations  in  respect  of the  Loan  as  provided  in  this  Loan  Assignment
and Assumption  Agreement  including  the assumed  and  amended  loan  agreement  set forth
in  the  Annex  to  this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  (Assumed  and
Amended  Loan Agreement);

(D) 

the  Bank has agreed  to the request  of the Original  Borrower  and the New

The  Assumed  and  Amended  Loan  Agreement  supersedes  the  Original

Borrower;

(E) 
Loan  Agreement;

(F) 

by  guarantee agreement  between  the Original  Borrower  as  guarantor  and
the  Bank  of even  date  herewith  (the  Guarantee  Agreement),  the  Original  Borrower  as
guarantor  guarantees  all  obligations  of the New  Borrower  contained  or  referred  to  in  this
Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  including  the  Assumed  and  Amended
Loan  Agreement,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Guarantee  Agreement;  and

(G) 

the  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter alia, of the  foregoing  to  enter
into  this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  on  the  terms  and  conditions
hereinafter  set forth  and in  the aforesaid  Guarantee  Agreement;

NOW  THEREFORE  the parties  hereto hereby  agree  as  follows:

Section  1.01.  Wherever  used  in  this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement,
unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  terms  defined  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Loan
Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  shall  have  the  respective  meanings  therein
set  forth.

ARTICLE  I

Definitions

ARTICLE  II

Assumption  and Amendment

Section  2.01.  The  New Borrower  hereby  accepts  the  rights  and benefits,  and  assumes
the  obligations,  of the  Original  Borrower  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Assumed  and
Amended  Loan  Agreement,  including  the  obligation  to  make  payment  of principal,
interest,  service,  and  other  charges,  and  to  carry  out  of the  activities  set  forth  or
referred to  in the  Assumed and  Amended Loan  Agreement.

the
Section  2.02.  The  Original  Borrower  hereby  acknowledges  and  accepts 
assumption  by  the New  Borrower  of the rights  and  obligations  referred  to  in  Section
2.01  of this  Loan Assignment and  Assumption  Agreement.

Section  2.03.  The  Bank  hereby  acknowledges,  confirms,  and  agrees  that  the
assumption  by the New  Borrower  of the obligations  referred to  in  Section  2.01  of this
Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  releases  and  discharges  the  Original
Borrower  of its  corresponding  obligations  under  the  Assumed  and  Amended  Loan
Agreement.

Section  2.04.  All  actions  taken,  rights  acquired  or  obligations  incurred  under  the
Original  Loan  Agreement  by the  Original  Borrower  shall  be  valid  and  binding  upon
the New Borrower.

Section  2.05.  The  Bank and  the New  Borrower  agree  to the  Assumed  and  Amended
Loan  Agreement  set  forth  in  the  Annex  to  this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption
Agreement,  and the Assumed  and  Amended  Loan  Agreement  supersedes  the Original
Loan Agreement.

Section  3.01.  This  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  (including  the
Assumed  and  Amended  Loan  Agreement)  and  the  Guarantee  Agreement  shall  not
become  effective  until  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  has  been  furnished  to  the
Bank that:

(a)  The  updated  Project  Operational  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been

adopted  by  the New  Borrower;

ARTICLE  III

Effectiveness

-3-

(b)  Each  of the execution  and delivery  of the  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption
Agreement  on  behalf of each  the  Original  Borrower  and  the  New  Borrower,
and  the  Assumed  and  Amended  Loan  Agreement  on  behalf  of  the  New
Borrower  have  been  duly  authorized  or 
ratified  by  all  necessary
governmental  and  corporate  action;  and

(c)  The  execution  and  delivery  of  the  Guarantee  Agreement  on  behalf  of the
Original  Borrower  as  Guarantor  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  all
necessary  governmental  and corporate  action;

Section  3.02.  As  part  of the  evidence  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  Section  3.01,  there
shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  an  opinion  or  opinions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  of
counsel  acceptable  to the Bank  or,  if the  Bank  so  requests,  a  certificate  satisfactory  to
the  Bank  of  a  competent  official  of  the  Member  Country  showing  the  following
matters:

(a)  on  behalf of  each  the  Original  Borrower  and  the  New  Borrower,  that  the
Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or
ratified  by,  and  executed  and  delivered  on  behalf  of,  each  the  Original
Borrower  and  the  New  Borrower  and  is  legally  binding  upon  each  the
Original  Borrower  and the New Borrower  in  accordance  with  its terms;

(b)  on  behalf  of  the  New  Borrower,  that  the  Assumed  and  Amended  Loan
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and
delivered  on  behalf  of, the  New  Borrower  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the
New Borrower  in  accordance  with  its terms;  and

(c)  on  behalf  of  the  Original  Borrower  as  Guarantor 

that  the  Guarantee
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and
delivered  on  behalf  of, the  Original  Borrower  as  Guarantor  and  is  legally
binding  upon  the  Original  Borrower  as  Guarantor  in  accordance  with  its
terms;  and

(a)  Except  as  the  Bank,  the  Original  Borrower  and  the  New
Section  3.03. 
this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption
Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree, 
Agreement  (including  the  Assumed  and  Amended  Loan  Agreement)  shall  enter
into  effect  on  the  date  on  which  the  Bank  dispatches  to  the  Original  Borrower
and  the New Borrower  a notice  of its  acceptance  of evidence required  pursuant to
Sections  3.01  and  3.02  of this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement
("Effective  Date").

(b)  If,  before  the  Effective  Date,  any  event  has  occurred  which  would  have
entitled  the  Bank to  suspend  the right of the  New  Borrower  to make  withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  if the Assumed  and  Amended  Loan  Agreement  had  been
effective,  or the  Bank has  determined  that an  extraordinary  situation  provided  for
under  Section  3.08  (a)  of the General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the Assumed  and
Amended  Loan  Agreement)  exists,  the  Bank  may  postpone  the  dispatch  of  the

-4-

notice  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  until  such  event  (or  events)  or
situation  has  (or have)  ceased to  exist.

-5-

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF, 

their  duly
authorized 
this  Loan  Assignment  and  Assumption
Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective  names  in  Skopje,  as  of the  day  and  year  first
above  written.

representatives,  have  caused 

the  parties  hereto,  acting 

through 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:  7';f 

cl/p

Title: 

Q  ~7~  0  5  ~ 

OFI 

,1C'tfZ

By

By

ORIGINAL  BORROWER

uthorized  Rresentative

Name:  z 

AN 

TAVtA'e-'

Title: 

ig,J 
P/77 

A4  J7 T 

A14)b

NEW  BORROWER

By

Name: 

Authorized 

epresentative

v5-"

Title:__ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_

ANNEX  TO THE LOAN  ASSIGNMENT  AND  ASSUMPTION  AGREEMENT

LOAN  NUMBER  7532  MK

Assumed  and Amended
Loan Agreement

(Regional  and  Local  Roads  Program  Support Project)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE  FOR STATE  ROADS

Dated  [  1, 2013'

between

and

-7-

Same  date  as date of Loan  Assignment  and Assumption  Agreement

LOAN  NUMBER  7532  MK

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated [ 

2],  between  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  and  PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE
FOR  STATE  ROADS  ("Borrower")  a public  enterprise  established  and operating  under
the laws  of the former  Yugoslav  Republic  of Macedonia  ("Guarantor")  pursuant to  the
Guarantor's  Decision  number 41-10147/1  of December  28, 2012  (Official  Gazette
1/13).  The  Borrower  and the Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I  - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions 
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

(as  defined 

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix to this  Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to lend  to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the amount  of seventy  million  Euro  (E70,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this  Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  LIBOR  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that
upon  a  Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the
interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount
shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment
continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower

2 Same  date as date of Loan  Assignment and  Assumption

shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided 
Conditions.

in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General

2.05.  The  Payment Dates  are March  15  and September  15  in  each  year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  and  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all  or
any portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan from  a Variable  Rate  to a
Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

2.08  Without 

limitation  upon 

the  provisions  of  Section  5.10  of  the  General
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information
relating  to  the  provisions  of this  Article  II as  the  Bank  may,  from  time  to  time,
reasonably  request.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the Borrower  shall  carry out  the Project  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
Article  V of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
Decision  or  the  by-laws  of  the  Borrower  governing  the  Borrower's  activities
have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived,  or  the  Guarantor
shall  have  enacted  new  legislation  or  issued  new  directives,  so  as  to  affect

-9-

materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under this Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following:  namely  that  the

event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Director.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Public  Enterprise  for State  Roads
Dame Gruev  14
1000  Skopje

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Facsimile:

+389  232  20535

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

- 10-

AGREED  at  Skopje,  as  of the day and  year first  above  written.

PUBLIC  ENTERPRISE  FOR  STATE  ROADS

Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

By

Name:

Title:

By

Name:

Title:

-ll-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  reduce  the  cost  of safe  access  to  markets  and
services  for  communities  served  by  regional  and  local  roads  in  the  Guarantor's  territory,
and to  improve  institutional  capacity  for investment  planning and  road safety.

The  Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part  :  Rehabilitation  and  Periodic Maintenance  of Regional  Roads

Carrying  out  localized  repairs,  periodic  maintenance  and  rehabilitation  works  on  about
284  km  of selected  regional  road  sections.

Part  II:  Rehabilitation  and Periodic  Maintenance  of Local Roads

Carrying  out  localized  repairs  and various  types  of rehabilitation  and  upgrading  works  on
about  420  km  of selected  paved and  unpaved  local  roads,  including  the preparation  of the
bidding documents  relating thereto  through  the provision  of technical  advisory  services.

Part  III: Institutional  Support

1. 

the  Guarantor's  and  the  Borrower's  capacity  to  manage  and
Strengthening 
maintain  the  road  network  through  the  provision  of:  (i)  advisory  services  to  the
Borrower  and  the  MTC;  (ii)  Training  to  the staff of the Borrower  and  the MTC;
and  (iii)  office and  information  and technology  equipment,  and  vehicles.

2. 

Carrying  out the financial  and technical  audits  for the Project.

- 12-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  Project  implementation  and for
procurement,  financial  management,  disbursement  and monitoring,  and reporting
for  the  entire  Project.  To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  adequate  staff
and resources,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  shall  maintain  adequate
management,  with  terms  of reference  and a  composition satisfactory  to  the  Bank.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  select  the  local  roads  to  be  improved  under  Part  II  of the
Project  based  on  proposals  made  by  municipalities,  and  in  accordance  with  the
Project Operational  Manual.

3. 

The Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

within  eighteen  (18)  months  of  the  Effective  Date,  have  completed
implementation  of an  Enterprise  Resources  Planning  (ERP)  System,  in
form  and scope  satisfactory  to the  Bank;

within  twelve  (12)  months  of the Effective  Date,  have  (i)  completed  a  road
inventory  and  condition  survey  of  its  Core  Road  Network;  and  (ii)
established  a  Road  Asset  Management  System  for  its  road  network,  each
in  form,  substance and scope  satisfactory to  the Bank;  and

by  July  30,  2013,  have  submitted  a  proposal  for  a  Five-year  Strategic
Program 
for  the  period  2013  to  2017  for  adoption  by  the  Guarantor's
government,  and shall  update  such  program  on  a  yearly basis.  The  annual
program  and  budget  of  the  Borrower  for  each  respective  year  shall  be
consistent  with  such  Five-year  Strategic  Program,  as  adopted  by  the
Guarantor's  government,  for that respective  year.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

C. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

- 13  -

The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  take  all  necessary  measures  to  implement  the  Project  in
accordance  with  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  the  SEA,  the  EAMF,  the  RPF,
the  EIAs,  the  EMPs  and  the  RAPs,  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,
repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of the  Project  Operational  Manual,  the  SEA,  the
EAMF,  the  RPF,  the  EIAs,  the  EMPs  and  the  RAPs,  without  prior  approval  of
the Bank;  and  (ii)  ensure  that  adequate  information  on  the implementation  of the
SEA,  the EAMF,  the RPF,  the EIAs, the EMPs  and the RAPs  is  suitably  included
in  the  Project  Reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.A.1  of this  Schedule,  and  in  the
report referred  to in  Section  II.A.2  (a)  of this  Schedule 2.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  all  measures  identified  and described  in  the  SEA,
the EAMF  and the RPF  are taken  in a  timely  manner.

3. 

The Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

prior to  commencing  civil  works  for  any specific  road  section  and  when
required  under  the  EAMF,  carry  out  an  EIA  in  form  and  in  substance
satisfactory  to the Bank;

in  the  event that  an  EIA  determines  that  such  civil  works,  if carried  out,
would  have 
in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  a  potential 
for  adverse
environmental  impact,  not  approve  the  carrying  out  of such  civil  works
until  an  appropriate  EMP  under  the  EAMF  has  been  prepared  by  the
Borrower  and  agreed  upon  by  the  Bank  to  mitigate  such  potential
negative  impact;  and

(c) 

thereafter  carry  out such  EMP.

Prior  to  commencement  of civil  works  for  any  specific  road  section  involving
involuntary  resettlement  or  involuntary  acquisition  of  land,  the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  implement  appropriate  an  RAP  or  RAPs,  as  the  case  may  be,  for
compensation,  or  resettlement,  in  accordance  with  the  RPF,  such  RAP  or  RAPs
to  be  in  form  and  substance satisfactory  to the Bank.

Financial Covenants

(a) 

Except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  beginning  December  31,  2013,
the Borrower  shall  not  incur  any debt  unless  a  reasonable  forecast of the
revenues  and  expenditures  of the  Borrower  shows  that the  estimated  net
revenues  of the  Borrower  for  each  fiscal  year during the term  of the debt
to  be  incurred  shall  be  at  least  1.2  times  the  estimated  debt  service
requirements  of the  Borrower  in  such  year  on  all  debt  of the  Borrower
including  the debt to  be  incurred.

(b) 

For  the purposes  of this  Section:

4. 

D. 

1. 

- 14  -

(i) 

(ii) 

The  term  "debt"  means  any 
indebtedness  of  the  Borrower
maturing  by  its  terms  more than  one  year after the  date  on which
it  is  originally incurred.

Debt  shall  be  deemed  to  be  incurred:  (A)  under  a loan  contract  or
agreement  or other  instrument  providing  for  such  debt or  for the
modification  of its terms  of payment  on  the date of such contract,
agreement  or  instrument;  and  (B)  under  a  guarantee  agreement,
on  the date  the  agreement  providing  for such  guarantee  has  been
entered  into.

(iii) 

The term  "net revenues"  means  the difference  between:

the  sum  of  revenues 
operations  and net  non-operating  income;  and

from  all  sources  related 

to

the  sum  of all  expenses  related  to  operations  including
administration, 
and
payments  in  lieu  of taxes,  but  excluding  provision  for
depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating  charges  and
interest and  other  charges on debt.

adequate  maintenance, 

taxes 

(iv) 

The  term  "net  non-operating 
between:

income"  means  the  difference

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to
operations;  and

expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes,
incurred  in the  generation  of revenues  in  (A)  above.

(v) 

(vi) 

The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate
amount  of repayments  (including  sinking  fund payments,  if any)
of, and  interest and other  charges  on,  debt.

The  term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a  forecast  prepared  by  the
Borrower  not  earlier  than  twelve  months  prior  to  the  incurrence
of the  debt  in  question,  which  both  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower
accept  as  reasonable  and  as  to  which  the  Bank  has  notified  the
Borrower  of  its  acceptability,  provided 
that  no  event  has
occurred  since such  notification  which  has,  or  may  reasonably  be
expected  in  the  future  to  have,  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the
financial  condition  or future  operating  results  of the  Borrower.

(A) 

(B) 

(A) 

(B) 

- 15  -

(vii)  Whenever  for the  purposes  of this  Section  it  shall  be  necessary  to
value,  in  terms  of the currency  of the Guarantor,  debt payable  in
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of
the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the
purposes  of servicing  such  debt,  or,  in  the  absence  of such  rate,
on the basis of a rate  of exchange  acceptable  to  the Bank.

2. 

(a) 
Except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  beginning  December  31,  2013,
the  Borrower  shall  maintain  a  ratio  of current  assets  to  current  liabilities  of not
less than  1.

(b) 
Before  June 30  in  each of its  fiscal  years,  the Borrower  shall,  on the basis
of  forecasts  prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review
whether  it  would  meet  the  requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of
such  year  and  the  next  following  fiscal  year  and  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the
results  of such review  upon  its completion.

If  any  such  review  shows  that  the  Borrower  would  not  meet  the
(c) 
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for the  Borrower's  fiscal  years  covered  by
such  review,  the Borrower  shall  promptly take  all  necessary  measures  (including,
without  limitation,  adjustments  of the  structure  or  levels  of its  rates)  in  order  to
meet  such requirements.

(d) 

For the purposes  of this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

The  term  "current  assets"  means  cash,  all  assets  which  could  in
the  ordinary  course  of  business  be  converted  into  cash  within
twelve  months, 
receivable,  marketable
securities,  inventories  and pre-paid  expenses  properly  chargeable
to operating  expenses  within  the next fiscal  year.

including  account 

The  term  "current  liabilities"  means  all  liabilities  which  will
become  due  and  payable  or  could  under  circumstances  then
existing  be  called  for  payment  within  twelve  months,  including
accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  debt  service  requirements,
taxes  and payments  in  lieu of taxes, and  dividends.

The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate
amount  of repayments  (including  sinking  fund  payments,  if any)
of, and interest  and  other  charges  on,  debt.

Whenever  for the  purposes  of this  Section  it  shall be  necessary  to
value,  in  terms  of the  currency  of the  Guarantor,  debt  payable  in
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of

- 16-

the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the
purposes  of servicing  such  debt,  or,  in  the  absence  of such  rate,
on the basis  of a  rate  of exchange  acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1 .

The  Borrower shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  year,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the
Bank not  later than  one month  after the  end of the period  covered  by  such report.

2. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  in  paragraph  I  of  this  Sub-section,  the
Borrower  shall:

prepare,  under terms  of reference  satisfactory  to the Bank,  and  furnish to
(a) 
the  Bank, eighteen  (18)  months  after  the Effective  Date  or such  later  date  as  the
Bank  shall  determine,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and
evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  I  of this  Section,  on  the
progress  achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  during the  period  preceding
the  date  of said  report  and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the
efficient  carrying  out  of the  Project and  the achievement  of the  objective  thereof
during the period following  such date;  and

review  with  the  Bank,  nineteen  (19)  months  after  the  Effective  Date  or
(b) 
such  later  date  as  the Bank shall  determine,  the report  referred to  in  paragraph  (a)
of this  Section,  and,  thereafter,  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient
completion  of the  Project  and the  achievement  of the objective  thereof, based  on
the  conclusions  and recommendations  of the said  report  and the  Bank's  views  on
the matter.

B. 

1 .

2. 

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and furnish  to the  Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)
days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

- 17-

3. 

4. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank not  later than  six (6)  months  after the end of such period.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  entity  financial  statements  audited  by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to the  Bank, in  accordance  with  consistently  applied auditing
standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  audit  of these  financial  statements  shall
cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower,  and  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  its  audited  entity  financial  statements  for  each  period  shall  be:  (a)
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  end  of the  period;
and  (b)  made  publicly  available  in  a  timely  fashion  and in  a  manner  acceptable  to
the Bank.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Works.  All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and to
be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
in  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  or  Consultant Guidelines,  as  the case  may  be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Works

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods  and works  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on  the basis
of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive
Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods  and  works.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall
specify the circumstances  under  which such  methods  may  be  used.

- 18-

Procurement Method

(a) 
(b) 

(c) 

National  Competitive  Bidding
Shopping
Direct  Contracting

C. 

I. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the  circumstances  under  which such  methods  may  be  used.

Procurement Method

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 

(e) 

Selection  under a  Fixed Budget
Least Cost  Selection
Selection  based on  Consultants'  Qualifications
Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the Consultant  Guidelines  for
the Selection  of Individual  Consultants
Sole  Source  Procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article 
II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such instructions),  to finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

2. 

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the

- 19-

amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed  in Euro) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
Financed
(Exclusive  of Taxes)

69,825,000 

100%

Goods,  Works, 

(1) 
Consultants'  Services  and
Training  for the  Project
(2) 

Front-end  Fee 

175,000 

Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of
the  General  Conditions

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

70,000.000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior to the date  of this  Agreement.

2. 

The  Closing Date is  July  31,  2015.

- 20 -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 
The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this
Schedule,  to  which  a Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a
Percentage)

On  each  March  15  and  September  15

beginning  September  15,  2013 
through  September  15,  2027

On  March  15,  2028 

3.33%

3.43%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  not  been  fully withdrawn  as  of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

first  Principal  Payment  Date, 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the 
the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal 
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any

-21  -

3. 

(a) 

amounts  referred to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn  within two  calendar  months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on 
the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the date of withdrawal.

(b)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at
any time  the Bank  adopts  a due  date  billing  system  under which  invoices
the
are  issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
to  any
withdrawals  made  after the adoption of such billing  system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the Conversion
Guidelines, the  exchange  rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

- 22 -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006.

"Association  of the  Municipalities"  means  the  Association  of the  Units  of Local
Self-Government  of the  Guarantor,  established  pursuant  to  article  15  of the  Law
on  Local  Self-Government  dated  January  24,  2002,  published  in  the  Guarantor's
Official  Gazette  No.  5,  2002,  and  operating  under  its  by-laws  dated  October  27,
2004.

"Category"  means a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  published  by  the Bank  in  May  2004  and
revised  in  October 2006.

"Core  Road  Network"  means  such  portion  of  the  national  and  regional  road
network,  as  agreed  with  the Bank, that  comprises  the most  important  roads  in  the
Guarantor's  territory,  judging  from  the  level  of traffic  on  such  roads  and/  or the
importance  of settlements  such roads  connect.

"Decision"  means  the  Guarantor's  Decision  on  Establishing  a  Public  Enterprise
for  State  Roads  (Decision  number  41-10147/1  of December  28,  2012  (Official
Gazette  1/13))  pursuant  to which  the Borrower  was established  and is  operating.

"EAMF"  means  the  Environmental  Assessment  and  Management  Framework,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  adopted  by  the  Guarantor  on  March  5,  2008,  and
adopted  by  the  Borrower  on  April  30,  2013,  setting  forth  procedures  for  the
environmental  screening  of the  activities  under  Part  I and Part II  of the Project, as
well  as  details  for the carrying  out  of the  EIAs and the preparation  of the EMPs.

"EIA"  means 
including  public
consultation,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be  carried  out,  as  the  case  may  be,  in
respect  of the activities under  Part  I or  Part  II of the Project.

Impact  Assessment, 

an  Environmental 

"EMP"  means  an  Environmental  Management  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to
be  prepared  by  an  independent  environmental  assessment  expert  and  adopted  by
the  Borrower,  describing  the mitigation,  monitoring  and institutional  measures  to
be  implemented  in  order to  eliminate,  offset  or reduce  any adverse  environmental
and social  aspects  in  respect  of the activities  under  Part  I or  Part  II  of the  Project.

10. 

"Enterprise  Resources  Planning  (ERP)  System"  means  a  computerized  and
integrated  information  system  which  includes,  in  modular  form,  financial  and
management  accounting,  human  resources,  project  management,  and 
legal

- 23  -

services,  established  for  the  purpose  of  enhancing  decision  making  by  the
Borrower.

11.  "Five-year  Strategic  Program"  means 

the  Borrower's  Five-year  strategic
program,  proposed  by  the  Borrower's  management  board  and  adopted  by  the
Guarantor's  government,  updated  annually,  outlining  the  Borrower's  investment
plans  and  programs  over  the plan  period  with  indications  of the  human,  financial
and  organizational  resources  required  for  the  achievement  of  the  proposed
investment  plans  and  programs,  and  forming  the  basis  for  the  preparation  of the
Borrower's  annual  program  and  budget  and  determining  any  required  review  in
the Borrower's  revenue  and  cost streams.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended
through  February  12,  2008).

"MTC"  means  the  Ministry  of Transport  and  Communications  of the  Guarantor,
or  any successor  thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD
Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in
October 2006.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  as
last  updated  on  May  23,  2013,  and  referred 
to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the
same  shall  be  updated  from  time to  time  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of said
paragraphs.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of
this  Agreement,  describing  procedures 
for  implementation  of  the  Project,
consistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and,  the  by-laws  of  the
Borrower  and  the  national  laws  and  regulations  of the  Guarantor  and  including,
inter  alia:  (i)  procedures  governing  administrative,  procurement,  accounting,
financial  management, 
including  adequate  measures 
for  procurement  and
forensic  audits,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements;  (ii)  targets  to  be
achieved  under  the  Project;  (iii)  sample  formats  for required  Project  reports;  and
(iv)  a  financial  management  manual,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time  with the agreement  of the Bank.

"RAP"  means  a  Resettlement  Action  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be
prepared  by  an  independent  environmental  assessment  expert  and  adopted  by the
Borrower,  describing 
for 
resettlement  and
rehabilitation  in  respect  of the activities  under  Part  I or  Part  II  of the  Project,  as
applicable.

land  acquisition, 

the  details 

"RPF"  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and
adopted  by  the  Guarantor  on  March  5,  2008,  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower
onApril  30,  2013,  outlining  the  modalities  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

- 24  -

17. 

18. 

19. 

rehabilitation  in  respect  of the  activities  under Part  I and  Part  II  of the Project,  as
well  as  details  for the preparation  of the  RAPs.

"Road  Asset  Management  System"  means  a  digitized  inventory  of  the  road
network  including  information  on  its  condition  and  traffic  levels;  the  equipment
to  measure  roughness  and  deflections  of the  road  network;  data  on  unit  cost  of
road  works  and  road user  costs,  and  other  organizational  needs  to implement  and
utilize  such  system,  serving  as  a  tool  to  assist  decision  makers  on  planning,
programming,  monitoring  and  economic  justification  of  road  investments  and
maintenance 
functional
classification  of roads.

the  appropriateness  of 

and  assessment  of 

the 

"SEA"  means  the  Sectoral  Environmental  Assessment  for  the  road  sector
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  adopted  by  the  Guarantor  on  March  5,  2008,
consisting  of,  inter  alia:  (i)  an  analysis  of  the  environmental  assessment
institutional  capacities  of  the 
road  sector  of  the  Guarantor,  as  well  as
recommendations  for  improving  the  environmental  assessment  process  in  the
road  sector;  (ii)  the EAMF; and  (iii)  the RPF.

local  and  international 

"Training"  means  training  activities  (other  than  consultants'  services)  to  be
carried  out  under  the  Project,  as  approved  by  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of annual
training  and  study  tour  plans  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  the  reasonable
and  necessary 
travel  and  visa  expenses  incurred  by
participants  in  training  workshops,  as  well  as  lodging,  subsistence,  local  and
international  per  diem  allowances  according  to  the  guidelines  of the  Guarantor,
registration, 
fees,  minor  organizational  expenses
(including  costs  of stationery,  handouts  and  training  materials),  translation  and
interpretation  costs,  facility  rental  costs,  and  other  expenditures  directly  relating
to  the training  workshop  and study  tour activity,  as may  be  agreed  with the Bank.

tuition  and  facilitators' 

- 25  -

