OFFICIAL
DOCUiMENTS!

LOAN  NUMBER  8258-HR

Loan Agreement

(Second  Science  and Technology  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF  CROATIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

C 

2 2 

,2013

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

2/ 22 
,  2013,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
CROATIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower and  the  Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to 
in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  twenty  million  Euro  (EUR
20,000,000),  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I
to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The  Payment Dates are  May  15  and November  15  in  each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any portion
of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a
Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of
the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a

Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate and the  Variable  Spread  to a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the  Variable  Spread,
or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn
and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Spread.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  its  MSES  in  accordance
with  the provisions  of Article  V of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project 
is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister of Finance.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Katan6ideva  5
10000  Zagreb
Republic  of Croatia

Telex: 

862-21215 
862-21833

Facsimile:

(385-1)  4922-598

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:
International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

3

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Zagreb,  Croatia, as  of the day  and  year first above  written.

REPUBLIC  OF  CROATIA

SAu 

rized  Representative

Name: 

Ca\  k 

'LI Cr

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  4 4OV\C  00  4O 

IA

Title: Cu 

f  Pu 

ge

4

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The  objectives  of the  Project  are  to  support  the  Borrower  to  absorb  EU  Funds  in
the  research  and  innovation  sector  by  capacitating  selected  public  sector  organizations,
and  stimulating  the demand  for those funds  from the business  and  scientific  communities.

The  Project  consists of the following parts:

Part  A:  Capacity  Building for Absorption  of EU  Funds

Support  to  the  Borrower,  its  MSES,  UKF,  BICRO  and  other  selected  public
1 .
sector  organizations  in  the  research  and  innovation  sector  to  improve  their  capacity  to
qualify  for  and  manage  EU  Funds  in  the  area  of  research  and  innovation  through
Technical  Assistance  and Training  including:

(a)  for  the  development  of strategic  documents,  such  as  a  smart  specialization
strategy,  a  research  and  innovation  strategy  for  smart  specialization,  and  a
research  infrastructure  roadmap;

(b)  to  strengthen  the  governance  of  research  and 

innovation  policies  and
programs,  including  through  a  review  of selected  policies  and  programs  and
development  of new  policies  and  programs,  as  required,  and  support  for  the
development  of databases,  technologies  and  competences;

(c)  for  the  evaluation  of the  network  of public  research  institutes,  including  the
preparation  of  strategic  planning  and  financial  management  strategies  and
preparation  of  performance-based  contracts  between  MSES  and  public
research  institutes;  and

(d)  for  providing  support  for  the  accreditation  process  for  EU  Funds,  including
adjustment  of the  relevant  institutions'  operational  procedures  to  enable  the
use  of  EU  Funds,  and  improving  capacity  to  implement  research  and
innovation  policies  and  programs  according  to existing  best practices.

2. 

Support  to  MSES,  BICRO,  UKF  and  other  selected  public  sector  organizations
in  the  research  and  innovation  sector  for  the  development  of applications  for
research  and  development  grant  schemes  and  infrastructure  projects  for  EU
Funds,  including  through the following activities:

(a)  Technical  assistance  to  MSES,  BICRO  and  UKF  for the  preparation  of new
or  adjusted  research  and  development  grant  scheme  project  applications  for
EU  Funds;  and

(b) Technical  assistance  and  Training  for the  preparation  of at  least three  project
applications  for  the  infrastructure  project  pipeline  for  EU  funds  (including

5

feasibility  studies,  cost-benefit  analysis  and  technical  documentation),  as
selected  with  the agreement  of the Bank.

3. 

including  BICRO  and  UKF,  for  project  management  and
Support  to  MSES, 
implementation,  including  through  financing  of Operating  Costs,  Training  and
audit for the Project.

Part  B:  Research  and  Innovation  Programs

Support  for  research  and  innovation  programs  through  the  provision  of  Sub-
I. 
the
financing,  through  BICRO,  to  Beneficiaries  for  Sub-projects 
Operational  Procedures,  including:  (i)  to  private  firms  and  researchers  for implementation  of
Program  II; (ii)  to eligible  enterprises  for implementation  of Program  III; and (iii)  to eligible
small  and  medium  enterprises  and  public  research  organizations  and  universities  for
implementation  of Program  1.

in  accordance  with 

2. 

Support  for:

(a)  strengthening 

and 

human 

research 

resources, 

excellence 

research
through  the  provision  of  Sub-financing,  through  UKF,  to
commercialization 
Beneficiaries  for  Sub-projects  in  accordance  with  the  Operational  Procedures
including:  (i)  for collaborative  research  activities  with  the Croatian  diaspora  and
leading  international  scientific  institutions  under  the  Research  Cooperability
Program;  (ii)  for  young  scientists  for  implementation  of the  Young  Researchers
and  Professionals  Program;  and  (iii)  for mobility  of scientists  in  order  to enhance
in  the  Republic  of  Croatia  under  the
the  flow  of  knowledge  and  skills 
Connectivity  Program;  and

(b)  strengthening  innovation  activities 

through  the  provision  of  Sub-financing,
in  accordance  with  the
through  MSES, 
in  research
Operational  Procedures,  including  for  investments  and  activities 
commercialization  and  intellectual  property  protection  of research  results  under
the Technology  Transfer  Office  Support  Program.

to  Beneficiaries  of  Sub-projects, 

6

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

The  Borrower, through  its  MSES,  shall:

Maintain  overall  responsibility  and  oversight  of the  Project  and  shall  be

(a) 
responsible  for strategic  guidance  on  Project  implementation.

(b) 
Carry  out  the  Project  through  its  MSES  and  shall  ensure  that the  Project
is  implemented  through  its  PIU  in  accordance  with  the  PIP,  POM  and  the
Operational  Procedures  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  waive  or  abrogate  the
provisions  of the  PIP,  POM  or  any  of the  Operational  Procedures  without  prior
agreement  of the Bank.

Maintain  the PIU  within  MSES  throughout  the duration  of the  Project,  in
(c) 
a  form  and  with  functions,  staffing,  terms  of reference,  qualifications,  scope  of
responsibilities  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  other  adequate  resources,  and  shall
cause  the  PIU  to  be  responsible  for  management  of  the  Project  activities,
procurement,  disbursement,  financial  management,  monitoring,  reporting  and
coordination.

Maintain  each  of  (a)  the  Steering  Committee;  and  (b) 

(d) 
the  Working
Group, throughout  the  duration  of the  Project,  each  with  a structure  and in  a  form
and  with  functions,  staffing, 
terms  of  reference,  qualifications,  scope  of
responsibilities  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  other  adequate  resources,  and  shall
cause  the  Steering  Committee  to  be  responsible  for  general  Project  strategic
guidance  and  shall  cause  the  Working  Group  to  be  responsible  for  overall
coordination.

Maintain  BICRO  and  UKF  under the authority of MSES,  with  a structure
(e) 
and  in  a  form  and  with  functions,  staffing,  terms  of reference,  qualifications,
scope  of responsibilities  and  other  adequate  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
and  shall  carry  out  Sub-financing  through  (i)  BICRO  for  Sub-financing  under
Part  B.1  of the  Project,  (ii)  UKF  for  Sub-financing  under  Part  B.  2(a)  of the
Project;  and  (iii)  MSES  under Part  B.2(b)  of the Project.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

C. 

Terms and Conditions  of  the Sub-financing

7

1.  The  Borrower, 

through  MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as  applicable, 

shall
provide  Sub-financing  to  Beneficiaries.  Each  Beneficiary  shall  have  established,
to  the  satisfaction  of MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as  appropriate,  on  the  basis  of the
the
that 
relevant  Operational  Procedures, 
organization,  management,  business  plan,  staff and  other  resources  required  for
the  efficient carrying  out of the Sub-project.

it  has  a  sound  structure  and 

2.  The  Borrower,  through  MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as  applicable,  shall  select  Sub-
projects  for  financing  from  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
criteria  and procedures  set forth  in  the respective  Operational  Procedures.

3.  Sub-financing  made  by  the  Borrower  through  the  MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as
applicable,  may  be  in  a  form  of a  loan,  a  grant,  an  equity  investment  and  any
other  type  of financing,  as  shall  be  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  as  specified  in  the
respective  Operational  Procedures,  and  shall  be  provided  and  implemented  in
accordance  with  the  terms of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

4.  The  Borrower,  through  MSES,  BICRO  and  UKF,  as  applicable,  shall  maintain
for  Sub-projects,

supervision  procedures 

evaluation 

and 

pre-screening, 
acceptable to the  Bank.

5.  The  Borrower,  through  MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as  applicable,  shall  make  each
Sub-financing  under  a  Sub-financing  Agreement  with  the respective  Beneficiary
include  the
on  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank,  which  shall 
following:

(i) 

The  Borrower,  through  MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as  applicable,  shall
obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of the  Bank,
including  the  right to:

(1)  suspend  or  terminate  the right  of the  Beneficiary  to use the  proceeds
of the  Sub-financing,  or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any  part  of the
amount of the  Sub-financing  then withdrawn,  upon  the  Beneficiary's
failure  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Sub-financing
Agreement;  and

(2)  require  each  Beneficiary  to: 

(A)  carry  out  its  Sub-project  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,
economic,  financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards
(including  any  EIAs,  EMPs  or  other  documents  required  under  the
Environmental  Management  Framework)  and  practices  satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines  applicable to  recipients  of loan  proceeds  other
than  the  Borrower;  (B)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources
required  for  the  purpose;  (C)  procure  the  goods  and  services  to  be
financed  out of the  Sub-financing  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of this  Agreement;  (D)  maintain policies  and  procedures  adequate  to
enable  it  to  monitor  and  evaluate  in  accordance  with  indicators
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of  the  Sub-project  and  the
financial
achievement  of 

(1)  maintain  a 

its  objectives; 

(E) 

8

applied 

prepare 

financial 

statements 

accounting 

consistently 

system  and 

management 
in
accordance  with 
standards
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  both  in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect  the
operations,  resources  and  expenditures  related  to  the  Sub-project;
and  (2)  at  the  Bank's  or  the Borrower's  request,  have  such  financial
statements  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing standards  acceptable
to  the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish  the  statements  as  so  audited to  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank;  (F)  enable  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to
inspect  the  Sub-project,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents;  and  (G)  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank  all  such  information  as  the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request  relating  to  the foregoing.

(ii) 

The  Borrower,  through  MSES,  BICRO  or  UKF,  as  applicable,  shall
exercise  its  rights  under  each  Sub-financing  Agreement  in  such  manner
as 
to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except as  the Bank shall  otherwise
agree,  the Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  Sub-
financing  Agreement  or  any  of its provisions.

Safeguards.

D. 

1. 

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance
with  the  Environmental  Management  Framework,  and  shall  ensure  that  no
provision  of the Environmental  Management  Framework  is  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or waived  without prior approval  by the  Bank.

(b) 
For  the  avoidance  of doubt,  paragraph  (a)  shall  apply  also  to  technical
assistance  provided  under Part  A.2(b)  of the  Project,  including  the  preparation  of
Sub-project  applications  for EU  Funds,  and the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  (i) the
terms  of reference  for  any  consultancies  related  to  the technical  assistance  under
Part  A.2  (b)  of the  Project  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the Bank  and,  to  that end,  such
terms  of  reference  shall  require  that  the  advice  conveyed  and  documentation
prepared  through  such  technical  assistance  be  consistent  with  the requirements  of
the  Environmental  Management  Framework;  (ii)  technical  assistance  activities
are  screened  for  environmental  and  social  impacts  and to  determine  eligibility  in
the
accordance  with  the  Environmental  Management  Framework;  and  (iii) 
required  environmental  documentation,  such  as  EIA  or EMP,  is  prepared  as  part
of  the  technical  assistance  activity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Environmental  Management  Framework.

2. 

Prior to any  Sub-financing  MSES,  BICRO  and  UKF  shall  screen  Sub-projects  for
environmental  and  social  impacts  to  determine  eligibility  of  a  proposed  Sub-
financing  in  accordance  with  the  Environmental  Management  Framework,  and
for  each  Sub-project  requiring  an  EIA  or  EMP,  or  both  EIA  and EMP,  pursuant
to  the  provisions  set  forth  in  the  Environmental  Management  Framework,  the
Borrower  shall  ensure  that:  (a)  an  EIA  or  EMP,  or  both  EIA  and  EMP  are
prepared;  (b)  such  EIA  or  EMP,  or  both  EIA  and  EMP,  comply  with  the

9

(c)  meaningful
provisions  of  the  Environmental  Management  Framework; 
consultations  are  conducted  and  the  EIA  or  EMP,  or  both  EIA  and  EMP,  are
adequately  disclosed;  and  (d)  that  each  Subproject  is  carried  out  in  accordance
with  such EIA  or EMP  or  both  EIA and EMP.

3. 

No technical  assistance  activity  or  Sub-financing  shall  be  eligible  to  be  financed
from the proceeds  of the Loan  if it  involves:

(a) 

(b) 

involving  the  involuntary 

taking  of  land  resulting  in
any  activities 
relocation  or  loss  of shelter,  loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets,  loss  of
income  sources  or  means  of  livelihood,  or  involving  the  involuntary
restriction  of access to  legally  designated  parks  and protected  areas;  or

any  activities  likely  to  have  significant  adverse  environmental  impacts
that  are  sensitive,  diverse,  or  unprecedented,  that  would  be  classified  as
in  accordance  with  the  Bank's  applicable  policies  and
'Category  A' 
procedures.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

1 .

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the Project  and  prepare
Project Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  quarter,  and  shall  be  furnished  to
the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of the  period  covered  by  such
report.

Financial  Management, Financial  Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)
days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower,
commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  first  withdrawal  was  made  under
the  Preparation  Advance  for  the  Project.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for
each  such period  shall  be  furnished  to the Bank not  later  than six  (6)  months  after
the end of such period.

10

4. 

A. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

through  MSES,  shall  ensure 

that  BICRO  maintains  a
The  Borrower, 
financial  management  system  and  prepares  financial  statements  in  accordance
with  consistently  applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  both  in  a
manner  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations  and  financial  condition  of BICRO,
including  its  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  related  to  the  Project,  and
independent  auditors
shall  have  BICRO's  financial  statements  audited  by 
the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
acceptable 
standards  acceptable  to  the Bank.  Each  audit  of these  financial  statements  shall
cover  the period  of one fiscal  year of BICRO,  commencing  with the  fiscal year  in
which  the  first  withdrawal  was  made  under  the  Preparation  Advance  for  the
Project,  and the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that BICRO's  audited  financial  statements
for  each  period  shall  be:  (a)  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months
after  the  end of the  period;  and  (b)  made  publicly  available  in  a timely  fashion
and  in a  manner acceptable  to  the  Bank.

to 

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the provisions  of this  Section.

terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
Definitions.  The  capitalized 
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III of the
IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III, 
Guidelines,  as the  case  may  be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following method,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used for
procurement  of goods and  non-consulting  services  for those  contracts  specified  in
(b)  National  Competitive  Bidding
the  Procurement  Plan: 
procedures,  subject  to  the  additional  procedures  stipulated  in  the  Annex  to  this
(d)  Well-established  Private  Sector
Schedule; 
Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial  Practices  which  have  been  found
acceptable  to the  Bank.

(c)  Direct  Contracting;  and 

(a)  Shopping; 

11

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used 
for
procurement  of  consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
Budget; 
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Qualifications; 
(f)  Well-
established  Private  Sector Procurement  Methods  or Commercial  Practices  which
have  been  found  acceptable  to the  Bank;  (g)  Selection  of Individual  Consultants;
and (h)  Single-source  procedures  for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

(e)  Single-source  Selection  of  consulting  firms; 

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan shall  set  forth  those contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV. Withdrawal of  Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article 
II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

The  following table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the Loan  to  each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in EUR) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures  to  be
financed

6,875,000 

100%

(1) Goods, non-consulting 
services,  Training,
consultants'  services  for
Part  A  of the  Project,  and
Operating  Costs  and audit
for the Project

12

(2)  Sub-financing  under 
Part  B.1  of the Project
(3)  Sub-financing  under 
Part  B.2  of the  Project
of 
Refund 
(4) 
Preparation  Advance 

6,325,000 

4,875,000 

78%

71%

the 

1,200,000 

(5)  Front-end  Fee 

50,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.07  (a)  of  the
General  Conditions
Amount  payable  pursuant
this
to  Section  2.03  of 
in  accordance
Agreement 
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

(6)  Unallocated 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

675,000
20,000,000

B. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be

1. 
made  for payments  made  prior to  the date of this Agreement

2. 

The Closing Date  is  June  30,  2017.

13

ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE  2
Additional  Provisions  for  National  Competitive  Bidding

For  the  purposes  of  following  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures 
the
procurement  of  goods  and  non-consulting  services  to  be  financed  under  the  Loan,  the
following modifications  and  additions  shall  apply:

in 

(i) 

Procedures

The  public bidding  method  shall  apply to all  contracts.  Invitations  to  bid shall  be
advertised  in  the Borrower's  Official  Gazette (Narodne Novine) and  in  at least one
widely  circulated  national  daily  newspaper or on the website  of the  Ministry of Science,
Education  and  Sports,  allowing a minimum  of thirty  (30)  days  for the preparation  and
submission  of bids.

(ii) 

Participation  of Govemment-owned  Enterprises

Government-owned  enterprises  located  and  operating  on the Borrower's  territory

shall  be  eligible  to participate  in  bidding  only  if they  can  establish,  to the  Bank's
satisfaction,  that they are  legally and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under commercial
laws  and  are  not a  dependent agency  of the Borrower's  government.  Said enterprises
shall  be  subject  to  the same  bid and  performance  security  requirements  as  other  bidders.

The  Borrower  shall  use  appropriate  bidding  documents  that are  acceptable  to the

(iii) 

Bidding  Documents

Bank.

(iv) 

Bid  Submission,  Opening  and Evaluation

(1) 

Bids shall  be  submitted  in  a  single envelope containing  the  bidder's

qualification  information,  technical  and price  bids,  which  shall  be opened  simultaneously
at the public  bid opening.

(2) 

Bids  shall  be  opened  in public,  immediately  after  the deadline  for
submission  of bids. The name  of the  bidder,  the total  amount  of each  bid and any
discounts  offered  shall  be  read  aloud  and recorded  in  the minutes  of the public bid
opening.

(3) 

The  evaluation  of bids  shall  be  done in  strict  adherence to  the monetarily
quantifiable  criteria specified  in  the bidding documents  and a merit  point  system shall  not
be  used.

(4) 

Extension  of bid validity  shall  be  allowed  once  only for  not more than

thirty  (30)  days. No  further extensions  should be  granted  without the prior  approval  of the
Bank.

14

(5) 

Contracts  shall  be  awarded to  qualified  bidders  having submitted  the

lowest evaluated  substantially  responsive  bid.

No preference  shall  apply under National  Competitive  Bidding.

(6) 

(v) 

Rejection  of All  Bids

prior written concurrence.

(vi) 

Securities

(1) 

All  bids  shall  not  be rejected  and  new bids  solicited  without  the Bank's

(2) 

When  the number  of bids received  is  less  than two,  re-bidding shall  not

be  carried  out without  the Bank's  prior concurrence.

Bid  securities  should  not exceed  two  percent  (2%)  of the  estimated  cost  of the contract;
and performance  securities  not more than  ten  percent  (10%).  No  advance  payments  shall
be  made to  contractors  without  a suitable advance  payment  security.  The  wording  of all
such  securities  shall  be  included into  the bidding  documents  and  shall  be acceptable  to
the Bank.

15

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date.
Principal Payment Date 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a  Percentage)
8.33%

On  each  May 

15  and  November 

15 

Beginning  May  15,  2017,
Through  May  15,  2022

On November  15,  2022 

8.37%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

first  Principal  Payment  Date, 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such withdrawal  by a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date.

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which

16

invoices  are  issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,
the  provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption of such  billing  system.

17

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Beneficiary"  means  an  entity  which  meets  the  eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  the
is  eligible  to  receive  Sub-financing
Operational  Procedures  and  accordingly 
under Part  B  of the  Project.

the  Borrower's  Business 

Innovation  Croatian  Agency,
"BICRO"  means 
established  by  the  Borrower  under  the  authority  of  the  MSES  through  the
Innovation  Croatian  Agency"  of
"Decree  on  Establishment  of  Business 
November  11,  2010,  as  amended  on  March  14,  2012  (Official  Gazette  129/2010
and  31/2012).

"Category"  means  a  category set  forth  in the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

the  Borrower's  Connectivity  Program,
"Connectivity  Program"  means 
established  by  a  decision  of the  UKF's  steering  committee  dated  January  29,
2007,  as  amended  up  to  the date  of this  Agreement,  and  administered  by  UKF  in
accordance  with  the  Operational  Procedures,  as  such  program  may  be  updated
from time  to time  with  the prior  agreement  of the  Bank.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

site-specific
"Environmental 
environmental  impact  assessment  prepared,  as  required,  in  accordance  with  the
EMF.

Impact  Assessment" 

or  "EIA"  means 

a 

the  Bank,  consisting  of: 

"Environmental  Management  Framework"  or  "EMF"  means  the  framework
prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  dated  August,  2012,  in  form,  substance
the  set  of  mitigation,
and  manner  satisfactory  to 
institutional  and  screening  measures  required  for  the  technical
monitoring, 
assistance  to be  provided  under the Project  as  well  as the activities  under the  Sub-
projects and  to be  taken  to  eliminate  adverse  environmental  impacts,  offset them,
or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  as  well  as  actions  needed  to  implement  said
measures,  including  the measures  and  information  required  for  the preparation  of
site-specific  environmental  management  plans (EMPs).

"EMP"  means  a  site-specific  environmental  management  plan  prepared,  as
required,  in  accordance  with  the EMF.

to  eligible  applicants  by  the
"EU  Funds"  means  funding  made  available 
European  Union  (EU)  under  its  funding  facilities  in  the  research  and  innovation

18

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

sector, including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  European  Regional  Development  Fund
(ERDF);  European  Social  Fund  (ESF)  and the Horizon 2020.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

"Horizon  2020"  means  the  EU  HORIZON  2020  Framework  Programme  for
Research  and  Innovation,  a  financial 
instrument  for  support  of  the  EU's
innovation  union.

"MSES"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Science,  Education  and  Sports,  and
includes  any  successor thereto.

"Operating  Costs"  means  incremental  operating  costs  incurred  by  the  MSES,
including  BICRO  and  UKF,  on  account  of Project  implementation,  including,
office  equipment,  maintenance  and  supplies,  travel  expenses;  and  other  Project-
related  incremental  costs  as  may  be  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
(but  excluding  salaries  of officials  of the Borrower's  civil  service).

the  Guidelines  and  Procedures 

"Operational  Procedures"  means 
the
Borrower's  Program  I,  II  and  III,  and  the  Young  Researchers  and  Professionals
Program,  Research  Cooperability  Program,  Connectivity  Program 
and
Technology  Transfer  Office  Support  Program,  agreed  with  the Bank  and adopted
by  BICRO,  MSES  and  UKF,  as  applicable,  setting  forth  eligibility  criteria  and
procedures  for  selection,  appraisal  and  approval  of  Beneficiaries  and  Sub-
projects 
for
administration  and  monitoring  of implementation  of  Sub-projects,  as  the  same
may  be  updated  from  time  to time  with  the agreement  of the  Bank.

to  be  financed  under  the  Project,  as  well  as  the  procedures 

for 

"PIP"  means  the  project  implementation  plan  adopted  by  the  Borrower  for  the
first  year  of Project  implementation,  dated  March  13,  2013,  as  the  same  may  be
updated  from  time to  time  with  the agreement  of the Bank.

"PIU"  means  the project  implementation  unit  established  by the Borrower  within
MSES  for the purposes  of Project  management.

"Preparation  Advance"  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  Section  2.07  (a)  of the
General  Conditions,  granted  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  letter
agreement  signed  on  behalf of the  Bank  on  February  16,  2012  and  on  behalf of
the Borrower  on  April  30.  2012  (IBRD  P4640-HR).

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  March  14,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the same  shall  be
updated  from  time  to  time  in accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

19

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

the 

means 

project  operations  manual  dated  April  3,  2013,
"POM" 
setting  forth  procedures  and  requirements  for carrying  out the Project,  adopted  by
the  Borrower  and  agreed  with  the Bank,  as the  same  may  be  amended  from  time
to time  with  the agreement  of the Bank.

"Program  I" means  the  Borrower's  Proof of Concept  (PoC)  Program,  adopted  by
BICRO  in  April,  2010,  as  amended  up  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  and
administered  by  BICRO  in  accordance  with  the  Operational  Procedures,  as  such
program  may  be  updated from  time to time  with  the prior  agreement of the Bank.

through 

enterprises 

"Program  II"  means  the  Borrower's  program  on  innovative  technologies  for
supporting  research  and  development  activities  in  start-ups  and  small  and
and
medium 
development  outputs  (currently  known  as  RAZUM  Program),  adopted  by  the
Borrower  on  July  12,  2006  under  the  "Guidelines  for  fostering  innovation
technology  system",  as  amended  up  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  and
administered  by  BICRO  in  accordance  with  the  Operational  Procedures,  as  such
program  may  be  updated  from  time  to time  with  the prior  agreement  of the Bank.

commercialization  of 

research 

their 

Ill"  means  the  Borrower's  Sponsored  Research  and  Development
"Program 
(currently  known  as  SPREAD)  Program,  adopted  by  the  Borrower  on  July  12,
2006  under  the  "Guidelines  for  fostering  innovation  technology  system",  as
amended  up  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  and  administered  by  BICRO  in
accordance  with  the  Operational  Procedures,  as  such  program  may  be  updated
from time  to time  with the  prior agreement  of the Bank.

the  Borrower's  Research
Program"  means 
"Research  Cooperability 
Cooperability  Program,  established  by  a  decision  of  the  UKF's  steering
committee  dated  January  29,  2007,  as  amended  up  to  the  date  of  this
in  accordance  with  the  Operational
Agreement,  and  administered  by  UKF 
Procedures,  as  such  program  may  be  updated  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
agreement  of the Bank.

"Sub-financing"  means  any  financing  in  the  form  of  a  loan,  grant  or  equity
investment  made  or  proposed  to  be  made,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of a  Sub-
financing  Agreement  and  in  accordance  with the  criteria and  procedures  set  forth
(through  BICRO  or  UKF,  as
in 
appropriate),  to  an  eligible  Beneficiary  for  the  purpose  of  financing  a  Sub-
project,  and  to  be  financed out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan.

the  Operational  Procedures,  by  MSES 

"Sub-financing  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between
itself  or  UKF,  as  appropriate),  or  MSES  through  BICRO,  as
MSES  (for 
applicable,  and  a  Beneficiary  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement  and  the  Operational  Procedures,  for  the  purposes  of  financing  and
implementing  a Sub-project  under Part  B  of the  Project.

"Sub-project"  means  a  specific  project  eligible  for  financing  out  of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this  Agreement  and  the  criteria
set  forth  in  the Operational  Procedures,  to  be  carried  out  by a  Beneficiary  using  a
Sub-financing  under Part  B  of the Project.

20

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

"Steering  Committee"  means  the Steering  Committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1
(d)  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

"Training"  means  Project-related  training  for  selected  institutions,  and  includes
Project  related  study  tours,  training  courses,  seminars,  workshops  and  other
training  activities,  not  included  under  service  providers'  contracts,  including
costs  of training  materials,  space  and  equipment  rental,  reasonable  and  necessary
local  and  international  travel  by  participants  in  training  activities,  reasonable
lodging  and  accommodation,  subsistence  and  local  and  international  per  diem  of
trainees  and  trainers,  registration,  tuition  and  facilitators'  fees,  translation  and
interpretation,  and  other  training  related  miscellaneous  costs,  all  based  on
budgets  acceptable  to  the  Bank.

"Technology  Transfer  Office  Support  Program"  means 
the  Borrower's
Technology  Transfer  Office  Support  Program,  adopted  by  the  MSES  on  April  3,
2013,  and  administered  by  MSES  in  accordance  with  the Operational  Procedures
as  such  program  may  be  updated  from  time to  time  with  the  prior  agreement  of
the Bank.

"UKF"  means  the  Borrower's  Unity  Through  Knowledge  Fund,  established
within,  and  administered  by,  the MSES.

"Working  Group"  means  the  Working  Group  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  (d)  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Young  Researchers  and  Professionals  Program"  means  the  Borrower's  Young
Researchers  and  Professionals  Program,  established  by  a  decision  of the  UKF's
steering  committee  dated January  29,  2007,  as  amended  up  to  the  date  of this
Agreement,  and  administered  by  UKF  in  accordance  with  the  Operational
Procedures,  as  such  program  may  be  updated  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
agreement  of the Bank.

21

