OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  8320-CO

Loan Agreement

(Subnational Institutional  Strengthening  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF COLOMBIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  ?f26@ 

/  24 

,  20-L3

A,0

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  -A  F/1/  2/ 

,  2013  between  REPUBLIC  OF
COLOMBIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

in 
The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part  of this Agreement.

the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized  terms  used  in 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

in 

to 

this  Agreement, 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower,  on  the terms and  conditions  set forth  or
the  amount  of  seventy  million  Dollars
referred 
($70,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project described  in  Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 

in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Front-end  Fee
not later  than  60 days  after the Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment  Dates are  February  15  and  August  15  in each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
provisions  of Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting  of limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  on the  Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  carry  out the  Project  in  accordance  with
the  provisions of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,
through  DNP,  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely, that
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has been  executed  by the  parties thereto.

4.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely, 

that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower,

-2-

through DNP,  and  FINDETER and  is  legally binding  upon the  Borrower, through
DNP,  and  FINDETER  in accordance  with  its terms.

4.03.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after the  date  of this Agreement,  but  in  no
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan
which  expire  on  June  17,  2015.

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance  and  Public  Credit.

5.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance  and Public  Credit
Carrera  8 No.  6C-38
Piso 3
Bogota,  D.C.
Colombia

Facsimile:
(571)  350-9344

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at 

above  written.

, 

14  q 

(0'/40as of the  day  and  year  first

REPUBLIC  OF  COLOMBIA

uthorized  Representative

Name: 

17ffia, 

coA 

)Oyj  on 1 v,*

Title: 

[}UP 

/

Y// 

By

By

Authoried  Representative

Name: 

* cm76  O ro7Xo

Title:  2rec4

rc4  Ge-reral  DN?

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND
OPMENT
DE 

By 

*M

Authorize 

epresentativ

7

Name: 

Title:

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (i)  improve  SNGs'  performance  in  core
public  management  areas;  and  (ii)  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower's  central
government  to manage  the  Decentralization  and  Territorial  Management  Framework.

The  Project  consists of the following  parts:

Component  1:  Structuring Regional  and  Local  Projects  and  Designing  Long-term
Territorial Strategic Planning Tools

1. 

2. 

3. 

(01 

Providing  support to  DNP  to strengthen  the Borrower's  capacity  to:  (i) establish
policies  that
territorial  strategic  planning  mechanisms;  and  (ii)  formulate 
reconcile  sectoral  and  territorial  objectives,  including,  inter alia, the  following
activities:  (A)  the  identification  and  analysis  of existing  trends,  challenges  and
opportunities  so  as to  identify  methods  for  achieving  a  more  balanced  and  equal
the  design  of  different  models  of  territorial
regional  development; 
development  under  a  long  term  perspective;  and  (C)  the  definition  of alternative
regional  development  strategies  for  the  purpose  of,  inter  alia,  improving
efficiency  and  reducing  socioeconomic  conflicts;  and  (D)  the  establishment,  at
the  national  level,  of permanent  coordination  mechanisms  for  territorial  strategic
planning  so as  to ensure  harmonization  and  consistency  of the  Borrower's actions
over  its territory.

(B) 

Providing  support  to  DNP  to  improve  its  access  to  information  relevant  for
regional  planning  decisions  through,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  compilation  of  an
information,  including  statistics,  administrative
inventory  of  basic  territorial 
registries  data  and  census  surveys;  (ii)  the  definition  of  strategies  for  making
information  available  in  a  timely  and  user-friendly  manner  at  the  subnational
level;  (iii)  the  design  of a  territorial  statistical  systems  to  incorporate  and  analyze
data  at  the  municipal  level;  and  (iv)  the  creation  of a  territorial  observatory  on
regional  public  management.

Providing  support  to  DNP  and  SNGs  to  identify  potential  sources  of regional
development  financing,  through,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  creation  of  mechanisms
(including  public-private  partnership  schemes)  to  identify  and  structure  regional
investment  strategic  projects;  (ii)  the assessment  of options to  prioritize  financing
resources  based  on  territorial  strategic  plan's  objectives;  (iii)  the  analysis  of the
normative  framework  relating  to  investment  resources  so  as  to  identify  potential
areas  of  improvement;  and  (iv)  the  establishment  of  a  financing  mechanism  to
carry  out feasibility studies  for strategic  regional  projects.

-5-

Component  2:  Applying  Incentives  for Territorial Management

1. 

2. 

3. 

1 .

2. 

information 

Assessing  SNGs'  public  management  capacity  development  to  carry  out,  inter
alia, the  following  activities:  (i)  the  assessment  of  the  existing  inventory  of
statistical 
the  design,
implementation  and  dissemination  of appropriate  monitoring  indicators  based  on
the  results  of said  assessment;  (ii)  the  implementation  of information  technology
tools  to  survey  the  performance  of  SNGs'  public  management;  and  (iii)  the
improvement  and  harmonization  of  existing  tools  for  measuring  subnational
management  performance.

regarding  performance 

indicators,  and 

Establishing  of  good  practice  standards  in  several  areas  of  subnational  public
management  (including  tax  administration,  strategic  planning,  public  financial
management,  administrative  control, 
reporting  and  procurement)
through,  inter alia: (i) the  analysis  and  compilation  of successful  cases  and  'good
practice'  examples  (both  at  the  national  and  international  level);  (ii)  the  definition
and  implementation  of methodologies  to  document  said  standards  and  to  make
them  operational  at  the  SNGs  level;  and  (iii)  the  definition  of  a  horizontal
cooperation  framework  to  promote and  disseminate  said  standards.

financial 

Design  and 
implementation  of  an  incentive  framework  to  reward  SNGs'
management  performance  through,  inter  alia:  (i)  adjustments  to  improve  the
distribution  of  the  SGP;  (ii)  identification  and  structuring  of  non-financial
incentives  to  good  territorial  management;  and  (iii)  non-financial  incentives
comprised  of  technical  assistance  packages  to  reward  good  performance  of
SNGs.

Component  3: Providing Technical  Assistance  Support to  SNGs

Strengthening  SNGs'  management  capacity  through,  inter alia: (i) the  provision
of  support  in  selected  aspects  of  territorial  management  (including  investment
action  plan  formulation  and  monitoring  and  evaluation);  (ii)  the  design  and
development  of a standard  methodology  for  carrying  out  investment  action  plans
large-scale
and  assessments 
implementation  strategy  for  the  standard  methodology  referred  to  in  (ii)  herein;
(iv)  the  implementation  of the  standard  methodology  referred  to  in  (ii) herein  in
impact  evaluation  of  the
selected  SNGs;  and  (v)  the  carrying  out  of  an 
implementation  referred  to  in (iv)  herein.

the  definition  of  a 

in  selected  SNGs; 

(iii) 

Design  and  implementation  of  the  TMM  through,  inter alia: (i) the  conceptual
design  of  the  TMM,  including  the  design  and  development  of  technical  tools
(including  methodologies,  procedures  and  information  systems) to  be used  for  its
implementation  and  monitoring;  (ii)  the  definition  of a  relevant  service  delivery
scheme;  (iii)  the  implementation  of the  TMM  in  selected  SNGs,  based  on  an  on-

-6-

3. 

4. 

1. 

2. 

site  support  strategy;  and  (iv)  the  definition  of  methodologies  for  carrying  out
assessments,  management  and training activities  on the  TMM.

technical,  operational  and  managerial
Strengthening  DNP's  and  MHCP's 
capacity  to  ensure  full  implementation  and  adequate  maintenance  of the  TMM
through,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  signing  and  implementation  of  inter-institutional
collaboration  agreements  with  SNGs  to  ensure  proper  and  efficient  operation  of
the  TMM;  and  (ii)  the  integration  of the  TMM  (including  its  information  and
reporting systems)  with DNP's  and MHCP's  current management  systems.

Improving  citizen  participation  and  social  control  in  the  public  management
cycle's  processes  through,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  development  of  a  repository  of
successful  (national  and  international)  methodologies  and  approaches  to  achieve
greater  citizen  participation  and  social  control  in  said  processes;  and  (ii)  the
development  of  tools  and  applications  to  increase  transparency  and  facilitate
citizen  participation  and  control  in territorial  management.

Component 4:  Strengthening Control and  Monitoring of Territorial Management

Strengthening  DNP  and  MHCP's  administrative  control  over  budget  spending
through,  inter alia, the  following  activities:  (i)  the  review  and  assessment  of
the
DNP's  and  MHCP's  current  internal  control  management  system;  (ii) 
formulation  and  implementation  of  adjustments  to  improve,  inter  alia, the
efficiency  and  scope  of  said  systems;  (iii)  the  development  of an  information
management  model  for  management  at the  SNGs'  level;  (iv)  the  improvement  of
issuance  of
internal  control  processes;  and 
DNP's  and  MHCP's 
recommendations  to  the  Borrower's  Comptroller's  Office  (Contraloria General
de  la Naci6n), the  Borrower's  Audit Office  (Auditoria General de la Naci6n) to
enable the adaptation  of their processes  to the new TMM.

the 

(v) 

Strengthening  DNP's  and  MHCP's  public  management  capacity  through,  inter
alia, the  following activities:  (i) the  definition  of risk  maps  to  ensure  appropriate
use  of public  resources;  (ii) the  assessment  and  improvement  of existing  public
management  indexes  and  control  metrics;  and  (iii)  the  identification  of  good
practices  and quality  standards  for territorial  management.

Component  5: Project Management  and Administration

Providing  support  to  DNP  and  FINDETER  for  the  carrying  out  of  Project
coordination  and  management  activities,  including  inter  alia:  administrative,
financial  management,  procurement,  monitoring  and  evaluation, 
reporting,
auditing  and  other  operational 
for  effective  Project
implementation.

activities 

required 

(0 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

B. 

1 .

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the
Borrower,  through  DNP,  with  the  assistance  of  MHCP  and  FINDETER,  shall
carry  out  the  Project 
in  accordance  with  this  Agreement,  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  and the  Project Operational  Manual.

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  not amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or waive
any  provision  of  the  Project  Operational  Manual  without  the  prior  written
approval  of the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project  a
Project  management 
team  (the  PMT)  with  functions  and  responsibilities
acceptable  to the  Bank,  including adequate  resources  and  assisted  by  professional
and  administrative  staff,  all 
in  numbers  and  with  terms  of  reference  and
qualifications  and  experience  acceptable 
including  a  Project
coordinator.

to  the  Bank, 

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  cause  FINDETER  to  hire  not  later  than  30
days  after the  Effective  Date  a  procurement  specialist  with terms  of reference  and
qualifications  and  experience  acceptable  to the  Bank.

Subsidiary  Agreement

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the
Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  cause  F[NDETER  to:  (i)  carry  out  financial
management  and  procurement  activities  under  the  Project;  and  (ii)  provide  DNP
with  technical  support  for the  carrying out of selected  activities  under the  Project,
pursuant  to  an agreement  (the  Subsidiary  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between
DNP  and  FINDETER  under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which
shall  include,  inter alia:

(a) 

(b) 

the  roles  and  responsibilities  of DNP  and  FINDETER  in  connection  with
Project implementation;

the  obligation  of  DNP  to  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption Guidelines;

-8-

(c) 

(d) 

the  obligation  of  DNP  to  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to
FINDETER  for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  procurement  under  the
Project;

the  right  of  DNP  to  take  remedial  actions  against  FINDETER  in  case
FINDETER  shall have  failed  to  comply  with  any of its  obligations  under
the  Subsidiary Agreement,  all as previously  agreed  with  the Bank;

(e) 

the obligation  of FINDETER:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(A)  to  carry  out,  on  behalf of  DNP,  the  procurement  under  the
Project  with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  set  forth  in  Section  III  of this  Schedule,  and  with
sound technical,  economic,  financial  and  managerial  practices,  as
specified  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual;  and  (B)  to  hire  the
procurement  specialist  referred 
in  Section  I.A.4  of  this
Schedule;

to 

to  assist  DNP  to  comply  with  its  obligations  set  forth  in  Section
II of this Schedule  2 to  this Agreement;

to  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  (by,  for  example,
allowing  Bank  inspection  and  audit  rights  under  paragraph  9  (d)
of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines);

not to  assign,  amend, terminate,  abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or  fail to
enforce  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or  any  provision  thereof,
unless previously  agreed  with the  Bank;  and

if  applicable,  to  comply,  or  cause  to  be  complied,  with  the
obligations  referred  to  in  Sections  5.06,  5.07,  5.10  and  5.11  of
the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  use  of  goods,  works  and
services,  maintenance  of facilities,  plans,  documents  and  records,
cooperation  and  consultation  and  visits,  respectively)  in  respect
of the  Project.

2. 

co 

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall:  (a)  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its
obligations  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the
interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the
Loan;  and  (b) except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,  through
DNP,  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the
Subsidiary Agreement  or any  provision thereof.

-9-

3. 

In  case  of any  conflict  between  the  terms  of the  Subsidiary  Agreement  and  those
of this Agreement,  the terms  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

D. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  adopt  terms  of reference  for  non-consulting
services  and  for  consultants'  services  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  of the  Bank Safeguards  Policies  then  in  force  and  as  applicable,  all
in  a manner  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the
Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of the  indicators  acceptable  to
the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report
shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  not  later  than  forty  five  days  after  the  end  of the  period  covered  by  such
report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower,  through DNP,  shall  maintain  or cause  to be  maintained  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank  as part  of the
Project  Reports,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the
pertinent  semester,  in form  and substance  satisfactory to  the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period  of one  fiscal year of
the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished to  the Bank not later than  six  months after the end  of such  period.

A. 

I. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-10-

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

4. 

Special  Provisions

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section  I of the  Procurement Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the  provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer  to the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III of the
II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections 
Guidelines,  as  the case  may  be.

(a) 

(b) 

Procurement  of  goods  and  non-consulting  services  and  consultant's
services  shall  be  carried  out  using  the  harmonized  bidding  documents
and  standard  request  for  proposals  (as  the  case  may  be)  approved  by  the
World  Bank  for  Colombia.

The  Borrower,  through  DNP,  shall:  (ai)  supply  the  SEPA  with  the
information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan  within  forty-five
(45)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and  (bii)  update  the
Procurement  Plan  at least  once  a  year,  or  as  needed  through  the  duration
of  the  Project,  to  reflect  the  actual  Project  implementation  needs  and
progress  and  supply  the  SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the
updated  Procurement  Plan immediately  thereafter.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Goods  and non-consulting  services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on  the  basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods.  The  following  table  specifies  the
methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  which
may  be  used  for  goods.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under  which  such  methods  may be used.

-11-

Procurement Method

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding
(b) Shopping
(c)  Direct Contracting

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the circumstances  under which  such methods  may be used.

Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based  Selection
(b)Selection  under a  Fixed Budget
(c)Least  Cost Selection
(d)Selection  based  on Consultants'  Qualifications
(e)  Single-source  Selection
(f)Procedures  set  forth 
Guidelines  for the  selection  of Individual  Consultants

in  paragraphs  5.2,  5.3  and  5.4  of  the  Consultant

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement  Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts  which shall  be  subject to  the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

-12-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
additional 
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in  the table  in paragraph  2  below.

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed for  Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

Category 

(1) Goods,  non-consulting
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training  and Operating  Costs
for Component  1 of the  Project
(2)  Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training  and Operating  Costs
for  Component 2  of the  Project
(3) Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training  and Operating  Costs
for  Component  3 of the  Project
(4) Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training  and Operating  Costs
for  Component 4  of the  Project
(5) Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training  and Operating  Costs
for  Component  5 of the  Project
TOTAL AMOUNT 

10,000,000 

11,560,000

32,530,000

5,720,000

10,190,000

70,000,000

-13-

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

For the purposes  of this paragraph:

(a) 

(b) 

the  term  "Training"  means  reasonable  expenditures  (other than  those  for
consultants'  services), as approved  by  the  Bank,  incurred  for the  carrying
out  of  training  activities  under  the  Project, 
inter  alia,
reasonable  costs  of travel  and  per  diem  of trainers  and  trainees,  cost  of
workshops,  rental  of  training  facilities  and  equipment  and  training
materials;  and

including, 

term  "Operating  Costs"  means 

the 
incremental
expenditures  incurred  by  DNP  and  FINDETER  on  account  of  Project
implementation,  management,  monitoring  and  supervision,  including
inter alia, salaries  of DNP  and  FINDETER  staff assigned  to  work  in  the
Project,  office 
supplies,  office  equipment  maintenance,  utilities,
communication,  local travel,  vehicles  operation  and  maintenance.

reasonable 

the 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:  (a)  from  the  Loan  Account  until  the  Bank has  received  payment  in full  of
the  Front-End  Fee;  and  (b)  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date  is December  31,  2021.

-14-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization  Schedule

The  Borrower  shall repay the  principal  amount of the  Loan in full  on  August  15,  2031.

-15-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Bank  Safeguards  Policies"  means 
the  Bank's  operational  policies  and
procedures,  set  forth  in  the  Bank's  operational  manual  and  identified  as  OP/BP
4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10.  4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60,  as  said  manual  is
published  under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Decentralization  and  Territorial  Management  Framework"  means  Marco  de
Descentralizaci6n y  Ordenamiento Territorial, the  Borrower's  framework  for
decentralization  and  territorial  management  referred  to  in:  (i)  the  Borrower's
Constitution  of  1991;  (ii)  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  1454  (Ley  de  Ordenamiento
Territorial), duly published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on  June 29,  2011;
and  (iii)  Chapter  II  (Convergencia y  Desarrollo) of  the  Borrower's  National
Development  Plan  2010-2014,  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette
No.  48102  on  June  16,  2011.

"DNP"  means  Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, the  Borrower's  National
Planning  Department,  and any  successor  or successors  thereto.

"FINDETER"  means  Financiera  de  Desarrollo  Territorial,  a  partially
government-owned  public  limited  company,  organized  as  a  credit  institution,
assigned  to  MHCP,  subject  to  supervision  of the Superintendencia Financiera de
Colombia, as established  and  governed  pursuant to  the Borrower's  Law No.  57 of
November  14,  1989,  as  modified  by  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  4167,  dated
November  3,  2011.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

"MHCP"  means  Ministerio  de  Hacienda y  Cridito Ptblico, the  Borrower's
Ministry  of Finance  and  Public Credit,  and  any successor  or  successors thereto.

-16-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"PMT"  means  the  Project Management  Team  to  be  established  by  the  Borrower
within  DNP  for  purposes  of day-to-day  management,  monitoring  and  evaluation
of Project  implementation.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  October  31,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall be
updated  from  time to  time  in accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the  Manual de  Operaciones, the  Project
operational  manual  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  through  DNP,  on  October  31,
2013,  containing  detailed  procedures  and  guidelines  for the  carrying  out  of the
Project,  including,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  functions  and  staffing  of  the  PMT;  (ii)
detailed  procedures  and  timetable  for  the  establishment  and  maintenance  of
financial  management,  disbursement,  flow  of  funds,  accounting  and  auditing
systems  under  DNP,  MHCP  and  FINDETER;  (iii)  guidelines,  procedures,
requirements  and  standard  contractual  terms  for  the  procurement  of  goods,
consultants'  services  and  Non-Consultant  Services  financed  under the  Loan;  (iv)
procedures  and  mechanisms  established  to  ensure  adequate  inter-institutional
coordination;  (v)  procedures  and  mechanisms  to  deal  with  conflicts  of  interest
and  fraud  and  corruption;  (vi)  procedures  for the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of
Project implementation,  including the  monitoring  indicators;  and  (vii)  the  duties,
functions 
and 
connection  with  Project
implementation.

responsibilities  of  MHCP 

in 

"SEPA"  means 
execution  system.

the  World  Bank's  publicly  accessible  procurement  plans

"SGP" means  Sistema General de Participaciones, the  Borrower's  system  which
regulates  the  transfer  of resources  from  the  Borrower's  central  government  to,
inter  alia, the  SNGs  (as  defined  below)  to  finance  the  provision  of  health,
education,  water and  basic  sanitation  services, pursuant  to  articles 356  and  357  of
the  Borrower's  Political Constitution.

"SNGs"  means  the  Borrower's  regional  government  entities  (entes territoriales),
including  departments 
(departamentos),  districts  (distritos),  municipalities
(municipios) and  indigenous  territory  (territorios indigenas), as  the  same  are
defined  in Article  286 of the Borrower's  Constitution.

-17-

17. 

18. 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  DNP
and  FINDETER  under  terms and  conditions  acceptable  to the  Bank,  referred  to  in
Section  I.B  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"TMM"  means  the  Territorial  Management  Model  establishing  the  procedures,
standards  and  regulations  for  carrying  out  planning  activities,  administrative  and
financial  management  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  tasks  at  the  SNGs  level,
which  model  shall  be designed,  developed  and  implemented  pursuant  to  Part  B.2
of the Project.

-18-

