OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  A  Jot -AZ

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing  for the Rail Trade and Transport Facilitation  Project)

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

, 

6( 

,2013

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER 

- AZ

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

, 2013,  between  the
REPUBLIC  OF  AZERBAIJAN  ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of providing
additional  financing  for  the  Original  Project  (as  defined 
in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement).  The Borrower  and the  Bank hereby agree  as follows:

C 

t..-  10 

go'pkC-M 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or in
the Appendix to this  Agreement.

the  capitalized  terms  used 

in 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,  on the  terms  and conditions set forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  and  twenty  million
United  States  Dollars  ($220,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from
time to time through  a Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with the provisions  of
Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project
described  in Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The Front-end  Fee  payable by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when due and  such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by
the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the
General  Conditions.

-2-

2.05.  The Payment Dates  are  June  15  and December  15  in  each year.
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisions  of Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any time request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms of the  Loan in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the Loan  Currency  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii) a change  of the interest  rate  basis  applicable  to: (A)  all or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount.  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;  or (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Reference  Rate and
the Variable  Spread,  or  vice versa;  or  (C)  all of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Spread;  and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the establishment  of an Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate or the Reference Rate.
Any  conversion  requested pursuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of Article IV of the  General Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from time to time  for the purpose  in the table  in  Section  IV of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

ARTICLE III -PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the  objectives  of the  Project.  To this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out by  the  Azerbaijan
Railways  through the PIU  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Article V  of the
General  Conditions  and the Project Agreement.

-3-

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of the following,  namely,  that the
Azerbaijan  Railways'  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of the
Azerbaijan  Railways 
to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement. 

'

4.02,  The  Additional  Events  of Acceleration  consist  of the  following,  namely,  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing for a
period  of sixty (60)  days  after notice  of the  event has been  given  by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

5.02. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following, namely  that
the Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on behalf  of the  Borrower  and  the
Azerbaijan Railways.

The  Additional  Legal  Matters  consist  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been duly  authorized  or  ratified  by the  Borrower  and
the  Azerbaijan  Railways  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the
Azerbaijan Railways  in accordance  with its terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is the Minister of Finance.

-4-

6.02.  The  Borrower's Address is:

Ministry of Finance
83  Samed Vurgun  Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

142116  BNKSL 

994412  4044720
994412 4044721

International Bank  for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

Ii

AGREED  at Baku, Republic  of Azerbaijan,  as of the day  and year first above written.

-5-

REPUBLIC  OF AZERBAIJAN

uthor  ed Representative

By:

Name:  _

Title:

By:

Name:

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective of the  Project is to  improve  railway services  in Azerbaijan,  as well
as  the competitiveness,  financial  sustainability,  operating  and  cost efficiency  and capacity
of the Azerbaijan Railways  in particular along the transport east-west  corridor.

The Project consists of Components  1(b),  1(c), 3  and 4  of the Original Project.

I

-7-

-SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

B. 

1 .

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  or  cause  the  Azerbaijan  Railways  to  ensure  the
maintenance  of the PIU with  staff and resources  during the implementation  of the
Project,  satisfactory to the  Bank.

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate  the carrying  out of the  Project, the Borrower  shall:

make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  in  the  amount  allocated  from
time  to time under  Categories  (1)(b),  (1) (c),  (3)  and  (4)  on  a  grant  basis
under  a  subsidiary  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Azerbaijan
Railways,  under  the  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank
("Subsidiary  Agreement");  and

make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  in  the  amount  allocated  from
time  to  time  under  Category  (2)  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement
between  the  Borrower  and  the  Azerbaijan  Railways,  under  terms  and
conditions  approved  by the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the  following:  (i)
the  term  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be  twenty  three  (23)  years
including  a grace  period  of eight  (8) years;  (ii)  interest  on the  amount  of
the  Subsidiary  Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to time  shall
be  at  a rate,  adjusted  every  six  (6)  months,  equal  to  the  average  rate  of
LIBOR  plus  Variable  Spread; 
(iii)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be
denominated  in Dollars;  (iv)  the Front-end  Fee  payable by the Azerbaijan
Railways  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of  one  percent  (0.25%)  of
amounts  indicated  in  Category  (2);  and  (v)  the  principal  amount  of the
Subsidiary  Loan  repayable  to  the  Borrower  shall  be  the  equivalent  in
Dollars of the  amount  of the  Subsidiary  Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding
such  equivalent  to  be  expressed  as  of  the  date  or  respective  dates  of
withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  on  account  of expenditures  incurred
by the Azerbaijan  Railways  for the Components  3 and  4  of the  Project.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the Loan.  Except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Subsidiary
Agreement or any of its provisions.

-8-

C. 

Safeguards

D. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  and  cause  the  Azerbaijan  Railways  and  the  PIU  to
ensure, that all measures  necessary for the carrying  out of the EMP  shall be taken
in a timely  manner.

The  Borrower shall ensure  that  the Project  is  carried  out in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  cause
the  Azerbaijan  Railways  and  the  PIU to  prepare  Project  Reports  in accordance
with the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and on the  basis of
the  indicators  agreed with  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report shall  cover  the  period
of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one
month after the end of the  period covered  by such report.

Financial Management,  Financial  Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Azerbaijan  Railways  and  the  PIU  to  prepare  and
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each
calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project  covering the
quarter, in  form and  substance  satisfactory to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the
Bank not later  than six (6) months  after the end of such period.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
consulting  services required for the Project and  to be  financed out of the proceeds

-9-

2. 

3. 

B. 

.

2. 

of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set.forth  or
referred to  in Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and to
be  financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the provisions of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method  described  in  Sections H and III  of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections 
II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as the case may be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded  on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  table specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding, which may be used for procurement  of goods,
works  and  non-consulting  services 
the
Procurement Plan:

for  those  contracts 

specified 

in 

Procurement Method

(a) 
provisions:

National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  following  additional

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

there  shall  be  no  eligibility  restrictions  based  on  nationality  of
bidder  and/or origin of goods;

pre-qualification  shall  not be  used  for  simple  goods  and  works
procurement  and  shall  be  conducted  only  for  large  works
projects;

in  which 

entities 
the  State  or  a  State  official  owns  a
shareholding  of whatever  size  shall  not be invited  to  participate
in  tenders  for the  Government unless they  are and can  be shown
to be  legally and  financially autonomous  and  they  operate  under
commercial  law;

-10-

Procurement Method

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(ix) 

(x) 

no  national  preferences  may  be  applied  on  the  basis  of  the
origin of products  or labor;

joint  venture  partners  shall  be  jointly  and  severally  liable  for
their obligations;

no  "participation  fee"  shall  be  required  of  bidders  for  the
purchase  of  bidding  documents.  The  only  charge  shall  be
equivalent  to  the  cost  of  pr6ducing  (copying)  the  bidding
documents;

in  the  evaluation  of bids,  bids  may  not  be  rejected  where  they
differ  substantially  from  the  estimated  prices  calculated  by  the
procuring  entity,  except  where  the  bid  prices  exceed 
the
available  budget;

(viii) 

rebidding  shall  not be  carried  out  without prior  approval  of the
Bank;

works  contracts  of  more  than  eighteen  (18)  months'  duration
shall  include  appropriate price adjustment provisions;  and

prior  approval  of  the  Bank  shall  be  required 
modification 
implementation.

for  any
in  the  contract  scope  and  conditions  during

(b) 

(c) 

Shopping

Direct  Contracting

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection, which  may be used  for  procurement of consultants'  services  for those
contracts which are  specified in the Procurement  Plan:

-ll-

Procurement Method

Quality-based  Selection

Selection through Fixed  Budget

Least Cost  Selection

(d) 

Selection  based on Consultant's  Qualifications

Single-source  Selection

Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  through  5.4  of the  Consultant  Guidelines
for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by the Bank  of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those contracts  which shall  be  subject to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant to  such instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set
forth in the table in  paragraph 2  below.

The following  table specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the Loan  to  each  Category, and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each  Category.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(e) 

(f) 

A. 

1. 

2. 

-12-

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(exclusive  of VAT)

(1)  Goods,  works, 

211,950,000 

100%

consultants'  services
(including  audits),
training and
Incremental  Operating
Costs for Components
1(b)  and 1(c)  of the
Project

consultants'  services
(including  audits),
training  and  incremental
operating costs for
Components  3  and 4 of
the  Project

(2)  Goods,  works, 

7,500,000 

85%

(3)  Front-end Fee 

550,000 

(4)  Premia for Interest Rate 

0 

Caps  and Interest Rate 
Collars 

TOTAL  AMOUNT

Amount  payable pursuant
to  Section 2.03  of this
Agreement in  accordance
with Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

Amount due  pursuant to
Section  2.07 (c)  of this
Agreement

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall be
made  for payments made  prior to the date of this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date is December  31,  2017.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted, as necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to 
in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

December  15,  2017 
June  15,  2018 
December  15,  2018 
June  15,  2019 
December  15,  2019 
June  15,  2020 
December  15,  2020 
June  15,  2021 
December  15,  2021 
June  15,  2022 
December  15,  2022 
June  15, 2023 
December  15,  2023 
June  15,  2024 
December  15,  2024 
June  15,  2025 
December  15,  2025 
June  15,  2026 
December  15,  2026 
June  15,  2027 
December  15,  2027 
June  15,  2028 
December  15,  2028 
June  15,  2029 
December  15,  2029 
June  15,  2030 

2.59%
2.67%
2.75%
2.83%
2.92%
3.00%
3.09%
3.19%
3.28%
3.38%
3.48%
3.59%
3.69%
3.80%
3.92%
4.04%
4.16%
4.28%
4.41%
4.54%
4.68%
4.82%
4.96%
5.11%
5.27%
5.55%

-14-

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To the  extent that any  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance as of such  date in accordance  with  paragraph  1
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount of each  such withdrawal  by a fraction,  the  numerator of which is
the original Installment  Share  specified in the table in paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred to  in paragraph 4  of this  Schedule, to which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within two  (2)  calendar months  prior to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating
the  principal  amounts payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date, be  treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with the  second  Principal  Payment
Date following  the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on or after the respective Principal  Payment  Date, the
longer  apply  to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption of such  billing system.

4, 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate  component of the Screen Rate.

- 15  -

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance is denominated  in more  than one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply separately  to  the amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each such amount.

- 16  -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by  IBRD Loans  and IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised in  January 2011.

"Azerbaijan  Railways"  means  the  "Azerbaijan  Railways"  Closed  Joint  Stock
Company  created  pursuant  to  the  Presidential  Decree  No.  383  dated  July  20,
2009,  on  the  establishment  of  "Azerbaijan  Railways"  Closed  Joint  Stock
Company,  providing rail  transport  services  to  passenger  and  freight, which  is the
Project Implementing  Entity and  the Subsidiary  Borrower.

"Azerbaijan  Railways Legislation"  means  the charter of the  Azerbaijan  Railways
approved  and  registered  by the  Borrower  in  accordance  with  Section  5.01  (d)  of
the  Original  Loan  Agreement,  including  any  modifications  made  pursuant  to
Presidential  Decree  No.  383  dated  July  20,  2009  on  the  establishment  of
"Azerbaijan Railways"  Closed  Joint Stock Company.

"Category"  means a category  set forth  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule 2  to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January 2011.

"EMP"  means  the  Environmental  Management  Plan,  dated  May  1, 2007,  setting
forth measures  to mitigate any  adverse  impact  to the  environment.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development General Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

the
"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  operating  costs 
implementation  of the  Project,  including  consumable  materials  and  supplies,
communications,  mass  media  and  printing  services,  charges  for the  opening  and
operation  of bank  accounts  required  for  the  implementation  of the  Project,  and
travel  and  lodging  as  required  for  the  purpose  of  the  project  implementation,
salaries  of the  PIU  staff, but excluding salaries  of officials  of the  Borrower's civil
service.

required 

for 

"Manat"  means the currency  of the  Borrower.

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  loan  agreement  for  the  Rail  Trade  and
Transport  Facilitation  Project  (Loan  Number  7509-AZ)  between  the  Borrower

-17-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

and  the  Bank,  dated  December  18,  2009,  as  amended  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

"Original  Project" means the Project described  in the Original  Loan Agreement.

"PIU" means  the Project Implementation  Unit of the Project,  established  through
the  Ministerial  Order  of the Ministry  of Transport  of the  Borrower  (Order  No.
132/ii) on  December  28,  2007,  under  the  Azerbaijan  Railways,  responsible  for
the day-to-day  management  of the  Project  implementation  and  monitoring,  or  its
successor thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  May 31,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the same shall  be
updated  from time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Implementing Entity"  means Azerbaijan  Railways.

"Project  Implementation  Manual"  means  the  implementation  manual  referred  to
in  Section  5.01  (a)  of the Original  Loan  Agreement,  setting  forth the  operational
and  administrative  procedures 
for  the  implementation  of  the  Project  and
including  the Procurement  Plan.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement  pursuant to  which  the Borrower  shall make:  (a) the
proceeds  for  Components  1 (b),  1(c),  3  and  4  of the  Project  available  to  the
Azerbaijan  Railways  on a grant basis;  and  (b)  the  proceeds  for Component  (2)  of
the  Project  available to the Azerbaijan Railways  on the same  lending  terms  as the
Loan.

"Subsidiary  Borrower"  means the  Azerbaijan  Railways  with whom  the  Borrower
will enter  into the  Subsidiary Agreement.

"Subsidiary  Loan"  means  the  Subsidiary  Loan  provided  under  the  Subsidiary
Agreement.

"Training"  means  expenses  incurred  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Azerbaijan
Railways  in  connection  with  carrying  out  training  activities  under  the  Project,
including  travel costs  and  per diem  for local  trainees  and trainers,  study tours and
workshops,  rental  of facilities  and  equipment  and  training  materials  and  related
supplies.

