OFFIC  AL
WXUMENTS'

SCF-PPCR LOAN  NUMBER  TF014573

Strategic Climate Fund- Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience  Loan Agreement

(Strengthening  Climate Resilience  PPCR (Phase II) Project)

REPUBLIC  OF  ZAMBIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
acting  as an  implementing  entity  of the  Strategic Climate  Fund- Pilot  Program for
Climate Resilience

Dated 

0E 

, 2013

SCF-PPCR LOAN  NUMBER  TF014573

STRATEGIC  CLIMATE  FUND-  PILOT PROGRAM  FOR CLIMATE
RESILIENCE  LOAN  AGREEMENT

.

*  14- 

, 2013,  entered  into between  REPUBLIC  OF
AGREEMENT  dated 
ZAMBIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
("World  Bank"),  acting  not  in  its  individual  capacity  but  solely  in  its  capacity  as  an
implementing  entity  of the  Strategic  Climate  Fund  ("SCF") - Pilot  Program  for Climate
Resilience  ( "PPCR").

WHEREAS,  pursuant  to  an  agreement  of  even  date  herewith  (the  "SCF-PPCR  Grant
Agreement"),  the  World  Bank  acting  not  in  its  individual  capacity  but  solely  in  its
capacity  as  an  implementing  entity  of  the  Strategic  Climate  Fund  ("SCF")  - Pilot
Program  for  Climate  Resilience  ("PPCR")  has provided  a  grant  in  an  amount  equivalent
to  $31,000,000  for the  financing of the  Project.

NOW THEREFORE,  the Borrower  and the  World  Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

Article  I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part  of this  Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the  Standard  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

Article  II
Loan

2.01. 

The  World  Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the  terms  and  conditions  set
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of five  million  United  States
Dollars  ($5,000,000)  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  1 to this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Loan  is  funded  out of the  resources  made  available  to the  World  Bank  as  an
In  accordance  with  Section  3.02  of the
implementing  entity  of the  SCF-  PPCR. 
Standard  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement),  the  World
Bank's  payment  obligations  in  connection  with  this  Agreement  are  limited  to  the
amount  of  funds  made  available  to  it  from  the  SCF-PPCR  trust  fund,  and  the

d 

db 

I

If

-2-

Borrower's  right to withdraw  the  Loan  proceeds is  subject  to  the availability  of such
funds.

2.04.  The  Service  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  on  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance

shall  be  equal  to one-tenth  of one percent  (1/10  of 1%)  per annum.

2.05. 

The Payment  Dates are  April  15  and October  15  in  each  year.

I 

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
repayment  schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

The  Payment Currency  is United  States  Dollars.

Article  III
The Project

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  the Ministry  of Finance  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  II  of the Standard  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the Borrower
shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

Article  IV
Effectiveness;  Termination

4.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  SCF-PPCR  Grant  Agreement  has  been signed  and delivered,  and all
conditions of effectiveness  of said agreement  or the right of the Borrower
to  withdraw  funds  thereunder  have  been  satisfied,  except  for  the
condition that this Agreement  has  become  effective.

The  Borrower  has  prepared  and  adopted  a  Project  Operational  Manual
and  a  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  in  accordance
with  the provisions  of Section  .B  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement.

-3-

Article V
Borrower's Representative;  Addresses

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  referred  to  in  Section  10.02  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is  its minister  responsible  for finance.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of the  Standard  Conditions
is:

Ministry  of Finance
P.O.  Box 50062
Lusaka
Republic  of Zambia

Telex: 
(+260)  42221 

Facsimile:
(+260  211)  253494/251078

5.03. 

The  World  Bank's  Address  referred  to 
Conditions  is:

in  Section  10.01  of  the  Standard

International  Development  Association
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INDEVAS 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423  (MCI)  or 
64145  (MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Lusaka,  Republic  of Zambia,  as  of the  day  and  year  first  above

written.

REPUBLIC  OF  ZAMBIA

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:_____ 

__

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  acting  as  an  implementing
entity of the Strategic  Climate Fund - Pilot Program  for Climate Resilience

A u 

'ed 

esentab**e

Na  e:

WoTitle:______________ 

__

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project 

institutional
framework  for  climate  resilience  and  improve  the  adaptive  capacity  of  vulnerable
communities  in  the Barotse  sub-basin.

is  to  strengthen 

the  Borrower's 

The  Project  constitutes  the  second  phase  of the  Program,  and  consists  of the

following parts:

Part  I  Strategic National  Program  Support

Carrying  out a  program  of activities  to  strengthen  the national  institutional  framework  for
climate resilience,  such  program  of activities  to comprise the following:

(a)  Institutional 

to 

support 

the  national 

climate  change  program 

through:(i)
mainstreaming  of  climate  resilience  into  key  national  and  sectoral  policies  and
programs;  (ii)  provision  of short  term  and  post  graduate  training  opportunities  for
climate  change  champions,  knowledge  sharing,  analysis  and  dissemination;  (iii)
carrying  out  of  studies  on  management  of  external  resources  and  climate  risk
financing;  and  (iv)  operational  support  to  the  National  Climate  Change  Secretariat
including  in  fiduciary  management  and  programmatic  monitoring  and evaluation,  all
through  the  provision  of technical  assistance,  the  acquisition  of goods,  vehicles  and
equipment,  the financing  of consultant  services,  the  financing  of Operating  Costs  and
the carrying  out  of Training.

(b)  Support  for  enhanced  climate  and  early  warning  information  dissemination  through:
(i)  carrying  out  of social  marketing  awareness  campaigns;  (ii)  application  of  rapid
communication  systems  between  line  agencies  and  communities  in  the  pilot  sub-
basins;  and  (iii)  establishment  of a pilot  open  data  platform,  all  through  the provision
of  technical  assistance  and  Training;  acquisition  of  goods  and  equipment  and
financing  of consultant  services,  non-consultant  services  and Operating  Costs.

Part  2  Support  for Participatory  Adaptation

Carrying  out  a  program  of  activities  to  strengthen  the  adaptive  capacity  of  vulnerable
rural  communities  in  the  Barotse  sub-basin,  such  program  of activities  to  comprise  the
following:

(a)  Engaging  the  services  of  experienced  non-governmental  organizations  and  other
qualified  facilitators  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  communities  to  identify  and
articulate  climate  risks,  use  participatory  approaches  to  prioritize  adaptation  options,
prepare and  implement  sub-grant  proposals  and  manage  canals.

-6-

(b)  Support  to the  Western  Province  and District  Councils  for:  (i)  carrying  out  of climate
risk  and  assessment  studies  for  the  Barotse  sub-basin;  (ii)  mainstreaming  of climate
resilience 
into  regional  plans  and  budgets;  (iii)  designing  and  overseeing  the
implementation  of  structural  and  non-structural  adaptation  options;  (iv)  enhancing
access  of  Beneficiaries  to  adaptation  knowledge  and  centers  of expertise;  and  (v)
improving  the  policy  and  recurrent  financing  framework  for  traditional  canals,  all
through  the provision  of technical  assistance;  acquisition  of goods and  equipment  and
financing  of consultant  services,  non-consultant  services  and Training.

(c)  Financing  incremental  operating  expenditures  and  strengthening  the  capacity  of the
Western  Province  and  District  Councils 
financial  management,
safeguards  screening  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,  all  through  the  provision  of
technical  assistance;  acquisition  of vehicles,  goods  and  equipment;  and  financing  of
consultant  services  and Operating  Costs.

including 

in 

Part  3  Pilot Participatory  Adaptation

Carrying  out a  program  of activities  to  pilot  climate  adaptation  in  the Barotse  sub-basin,
such program  of activities  to comprise  the following:

(a)  Providing  Sub-Project  Grants  to  finance  eligible  Sub-Projects  at  the  District,  Ward
community  groups  and  individual  levels,  and  to  finance  innovations  or  scale  up  the
work  of best performing  Beneficiaries.

(b)  Establishing  and  operating  an  Adaptation  Contingency  Fund  to  finance  eligible  Sub-
Projects  based  on the occurrence  of a  defined  event (s)  as  detailed  in the  Participatory
Adaptation  Implementation  Manual.

(c)  Rehabilitating  and strengthening  the management  of traditional  canals.

dd

di

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and Other Arran2ements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

Ministry ofFinance

The Ministry  of Finance  shall  be responsible  for the overall  execution,  coordination
and  implementation  of the  Project  and  shall  in  this  regard  implement  the  Project
through  the National  Climate  Change  Secretariat.

National Climate Change Secretariat

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  the  National
Climate  Change  Secretariat,  with  an  institutional  framework  and terms  of reference
satisfactory  to the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and resources  adequate  to carry  out  its
responsibilities  under the Project.

3.  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  National  Climate  Change  Secretariat  shall
be  responsible  for  the  overall  coordination,  implementation  and  reporting  of the
Project.

National Disaster Management and Mitigation Unit

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  the  National
Disaster  Management  and  Mitigation  Unit,  with  an  institutional  framework  and
terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources
adequate  to carry  out  its  responsibilities  under the Project.

5.  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  National  Disaster  Management  and
Mitigation  Unit  (DMMU)  shall  be  responsible  for  the  implementation  of Part  1.B
(ii)  and  (iii)  of the Project.

Provincial Project Implementation Unit

1. 

2. 

4. 

6. 

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  not  later  than  January  30,  2014  establish  and  thereafter
maintain  throughout  Project  implementation,  a  Provincial  Project  Implementation
Unit  (PPIU),  within  the  Western  Province  administration  headed  by  the  chief
planner  and  comprising  a  liaison  officer,  an  environmental  and  social  safeguards
management  specialist,  a  monitoring and  evaluation  specialist,  adaptation  specialist
and  an  accounting  assistant,  all  with  qualifications,  experience,  and  terms  of
reference  satisfactory  to  the World  Bank;  and (b)  ensure  that the PPIU has  adequate
resources  to  carry  out  its responsibilities  under the  Project.

-8-

7.  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  PPIU  shall  be  responsible  for  overseeing
and  facilitating  the  day-to-day  implementation  of the  Project  in  the  Barotse  sub-
basin.

Provincial Planning Sub-Committee

8. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  throughout  Project  implementation,  the  Provincial
Planning  Sub-Committee  within  Western  Province  with  an  institutional  framework
and  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources
adequate to  carry  out its responsibilities  under the Project.

9.  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  functions  of the  Provincial  Planning  Sub-
Committee  shall  be  to:  (a)  facilitate  overall  coordination  of  the  Project  in  the
Province;  and  (b)  endorse  Sub-Projects  for  subsequent  approval  by  the  National
Climate Change  Secretariat.

District Planner and District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee

10.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  throughout  Project  implementation,  the  office  of the
District  Planner  and  the  District  Planning  Advisory  Sub-Committee  within  each
District,  each  with  an  institutional  framework  and  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to
the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources  adequate 
its
responsibilities  under the  Project.

to  carry  out 

11.  Without  limitation  on  the foregoing,  the  District  Planner  under  the  guidance  of the
District  Planning  Advisory  Sub-Committee 
(a)
mainstreaming  climate  resilience  in  District  integrated  development  plans;  (b)
facilitating,  coordinating  and  monitoring  the  implementation  of the  Project  at  the
District,  Ward  and  community  levels;  and  (c)  screening  Sub-Projects  against  the
eligibility  criteria  and  recommending  them  for  consideration  by  the  Provincial
Planning  Sub-Committee.

responsible 

shall  be 

for: 

B. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Project Operational Manual

1. 

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  (i)  prepare,  under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the
World  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the  World  Bank  a  Project  Operational  Manual
containing  detailed  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the  implementation  of  the
in  the  areas  of  monitoring  and  evaluation,  procurement,
Project,  including 
coordination,  social  and  environmental  safeguards,  financial,  administrative  and
accounting  procedures,  corruption  and  fraud  mitigation  measures,  guidelines  on
Operating  Costs,  and  such  other arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be  required
for  the  Project;  and  (ii)  thereafter  adopt  and  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance
with  such  Project  Implementation  Manual  as  shall  have  been  approved  by  the

-9-

World  Bank  (Project  Operational  Manual);  and  (b)  except  as  the  World  Bank shall
otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  amend or waive,  or  permit to be amended  or waived
any  provision  of the Project  Operational  Manual.

Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  (i)  prepare  and  furnish  to the  World  Bank  a  participatory
adaptation  implementation  manual  setting  out  the  guidelines  for  community
participation  in  the  Project  and  the  selection  criteria  and  detailed  guidelines  and
procedures  for  the  implementation  of  Sub-Projects,  including  administrative,
financial  and  accounting,  procurement,  social  and  environmental  safeguards,
monitoring  and  evaluation  procedures;  and  (ii)  thereafter  adopt  and  cause  the
Sub-Projects  to  be  implemented  in  accordance  with  such participatory  adaptation
manual  as  shall  have  been  approved  by 
the  World  Bank  (Participatory
Adaptation  Implementation  Manual);  and  (b)  except  as  the  World  Bank  shall
otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  amend  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  amended  or
waived  any provision  of the Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual.

In  case  of a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of the  Project  Operational  Manual  or
the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  and  this  Agreement,  those
of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

Annual  Work Plans and Budget

The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than  December  30 of each  year  prepare  and  furnish
to  the  World  Bank,  an  annual  program  of activities  proposed  for  implementation
under  the  Project  during  the  following  Fiscal  Year,  together  with  a  proposed
budget  for  the purpose.

The Borrower  shall  exchange  views  with  the  World  Bank  on  each such  proposed
annual  work  plan,  and  shall  thereafter  adopt,  and  carry  out  such  program  of
activities  for  such  following  Fiscal  Year  as  shall  have  been  agreed  with  the
World  Bank,  as  such  plan  may  be  subsequently  revised  during  such  following
Fiscal  Year  with  the prior written  agreement  of the  World  Bank  (Agreed  Annual
Work  Plan).

Sub-Projects

For  purposes  of  implementation  of  Part  3  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall
in
provide  Sub-Project  Grants  to  Beneficiaries  to  implement  Sub-Projects 
accordance  with  eligibility  criteria and  procedures  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank
and  specified  in the Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual which  shall
include  the following:

(a) 

Sub-Project  Grants  shall  be  provided  for  priority  adaptation  investments
identified through  climate  resilience planning.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

C. 

1. 

do 

(b) 

(c) 

1-10-

Beneficiaries  shall:  (i)  contribute  part  of the cost  of Sub-Projects  in  cash
or  in  kind  as  stipulated  in  the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation
Manual;  (ii)  meet  minimum registration  and  fiduciary  requirements  as  set
out  in  the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual;  and  (iii)
open  and  maintain  a  bank  account,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory
to 
for  receiving  Beneficiary
contributions  and funds  from  the proceeds  of the Sub-Project  Grants.

the  World  Bank,  where  appropriate, 

(B)  provide,  promptly  as  needed, 

Sub-Project  Grants  shall  be  made  under  a  Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement
with  the  respective  Beneficiary  on  terms  and conditions  acceptable  to the
World  Bank, which shall  cover  rights adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and
those  of the  World  Bank,  including  the right  to:  (i)  suspend  or  terminate
the right  of the  Beneficiary  to use  the proceeds  of the  Sub-Project  Grant,
or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any  part  of the  amount  of the  Sub-Project
Grant  then  withdrawn,  upon  the  Beneficiary's  failure  to  perform  any  of
its  obligations  under  the  Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement;  and  (ii)  require
each  Beneficiary  to:  (A)  carry  out  its  Sub-Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  economic,  financial,
managerial,  environmental  and social  standards  and practices  satisfactory
to  the  World  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines; 
the
resources  required  for  the  purpose;  (C)  procure  the  goods,  works  and
services  to  be  financed  out  of the  Sub-Project  Grant  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of this  Agreement;(D)  maintain  policies  and  procedures
in  accordance  with
it  to  monitor  and  evaluate 
adequate  to  enable 
indicators  acceptable  to  the World  Bank,  the progress  of the Sub-Project
and  the  achievement  of its  objectives;  (E)  (1)  maintain  adequate  records
to  reflect,  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices,  the  outputs,
operations,  resources  and expenditures  in  respect  of the Sub-Project;  and
(2)  at  the  World  Bank's  or  the  Borrower's  request,  have  such  records
and  outputs  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  World
in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards
Bank, 
acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish  the  report  of such
audit  to the  Borrower  and the  World  Bank;  (F)  enable  the Borrower  and
the World Bank  to  inspect the Sub-Project,  its operation  and  any  relevant
records  and  documents;  (G)  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Borrower  and  the
World  Bank  all  such  information  as  the  Borrower  or  the  World  Bank
take  such  measures  as  shall  be
may  reasonably  request;  and  (H) 
necessary  or  appropriate  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the
the
and  Social  Management  Framework 
Environmental 
Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (  RPF),  the  Pest  Management  Plan
and/or
any  Resettlement  Action  Plans 
(PMP), 
Environmental  Management  Plans  (EMPs),  as  the case may be.

(ESMF), 

(RAPs) 

and 

S2. The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each

Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the

I
I

Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Project.
Except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not assign,
amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement  or  any  of  its
provisions.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguard

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the ESMF,  the RPF, the PMP and  any RAPs  and/or EMPs.

the  Project,  application  of  whose 

Without  limitation  to  the  foregoing,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  all  technical
assistance  under 
results  would  have
environmental  or social  implications,  shall  only  be  undertaken  pursuant  to terms
of reference  reviewed  and  found  satisfactory  by  the  World  Bank,  such  terms  of
reference 
the
requirements  of  the  ESMF,  the  RPF,  the  PMP,  any  applicable  RAP  and  or
EMPs,  and  the  Borrower's  own  laws  relating  to  the  environment  and  social
aspects.

technical  assistance 

into  account 

to  ensure 

takes 

that 

the 

Except  as  otherwise  agreed  in  writing  by  the  World  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall
require that  in  implementing  Sub-Projects,  the  Beneficiaries  take  such  measures
as  shall  be  necessary  or  appropriate  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the
ESMF,  the  RPF, the PMP,  and any  RAPs  and/or EMPs, as  the case may  be.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  Project  reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.A  of this
Schedule  shall 
implementation  and
monitoring  of  the  measures  undertaken  to  implement  the  provisions  of  the
ESMF,  the RPF, the  PMP, and any  RAPs  and/or EMPs.

information  on  the 

include  adequate 

E. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and  Evaluation

A. 

Project  Reports; Completion  Report

The  Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  2.06  of the  Standard  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  and  set  out  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  quarter
and  shall  be  furnished to  the  World  Bank not later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the  end
of the period  covered  by  such report.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

I1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

-12-

Financial Management;  Financial Reports; Audits

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  a  financial  management  system  is  maintained  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 2.07  of the  Standard Conditions.

Without  limitation on  the provisions  of Part  A  of this Section,  the Borrower  shall
ensure  that  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  are  prepared  and
furnished  to the  World  Bank as  part  of the  Project Report  not  later  than  forty  five
(45)  days after  the end of each  calendar  quarter,  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to the  World Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  for  the  Project  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  (b)  of the  Standard  Conditions.
Each  such  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal
year  of the Borrower.  The audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  and
a  Management  Letter  shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later than  six  (6)
months  after the end  of such  period.

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the Project  and to  be financed  out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and to
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  World  Bank  of
particular  contracts,  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II
and  III  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the
Consultant Guidelines,  as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded  on the basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

do 

I 

I

-13-

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and
non-consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under  which  such methods  may  be  used:

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding  (subject to  the additional provisions set out

Procurement Method

in paragraph 3  below)

(b)  Shopping

(c)  Direct  Contracting

(d)  Force  Account

(e)  Procurement  from  UNOPS
(f)  Community  Participation  procedures  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to
the  World  Bank and  set out  in  the Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation
Manual

3. 

Additional  Provisions and Modifications  to National  Competitive  Bidding

The  procurement  procedure  to  be  followed  for  National  Competitive  Bidding
("NCB")  shall  be  the open  international  bidding procedure  set  forth  in  the  Public
Procurement  Act,  2008,  Act.  No.12  of  2008,  as  amended  by  the  Public
Procurement  (Amendment)  Act,  2011,  Act  No.  15  of 2011  (the  "PPA"),  and  the
Public  Procurement  Regulations,  2011,  Statutory  Instrument  No.  63  of 2011  (the
"Regulations");  provided,  however,  that  such  procedure  shall  be  subject  to  the
provisions  of Section  I and Paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4  of Section  III,  and Appendix  I
of  the  "Guidelines  for  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works,  and  Non-Consulting
Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  &  Grants  by  World  Bank
(the  "Procurement  Guidelines"),  and  the  additional
Borrowers"  (January  2011) 
provisions  in  the following paragraphs:

(a) 

Eligibility:  Eligibility  to  participate  in  a  procurement  process  and  to  be
awarded  an  World  Bank-financed  contract  shall  be  as  defined  under
Section  I  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or
potential  bidder  shall  be  declared  ineligible  for  contracts  financed  by  the
World  Bank  for  reasons  other  than  those  provided  in  Section  I  of the
Procurement  Guidelines.  No  restriction  based  on  nationality  of bidders
and/or  origin  of goods  shall  apply,  and  foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed
to  participate  in  NCB  without  application  of restrictive  conditions,  such

d 

(e) 

-14-

as,  but  not  limited  to,  mandatory  partnering  or  subcontracting  with
national  entities.

(b) 

Domestic  Preference:  No  margins  of  preference  of  any  sort  shall  be
applied  in the  bid evaluation.

(c) 

Bidding  Documents:  Procuring  entities  shall  use  bidding  documents
acceptable  to the  World  Bank.

3(d) Bid  validity:  An  extension  of  bid  validity,  if justified  by  exceptional

circumstances,  may  be  requested  in  accordance  with  Appendix  I  of the
Procurement  Guidelines. 
A  corresponding  extension  of  any  bid
guarantee  shall  be  required  in  all  cases  of extension  of bid  validity.  A
bidder  may  refuse  a  request  for  extension  of  bid  validity  without
forfeiting  its  bid guarantee.

Qualification:  Qualification  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the
bidding  documents.  All  criteria  so  specified,  and  only  such  specified
criteria,  shall  be  used  to  determine  whether  a  bidder  is  qualified.
Qualification  shall  be  assessed  on  a  "pass  or  fail"  basis,  and  merit  points
shall  not  be  used.  Such  assessment  shall  be  based  entirely  upon  the
bidder's  or  prospective  bidder's  capability  and  resources  to  effectively
perform  the  contract,  taking  into  account  objective  and  measurable
factors,  including:  (i)  relevant  general  and  specific  experience,  and
satisfactory  past  performance  and  successful  completion  of  similar
contracts  over  a  given  period;  (ii)  financial  position;  and  (iii)  where
relevant capability  of construction  and/or manufacturing  facilities.

Prequalification  procedures  and  documents  acceptable  to the  World Bank
shall  be  used  for  large,  complex  and/or  specialized  works.  Verification
of  the  information  upon  which  a  bidder  was  prequalified,  including
current  commitments,  shall  be  carried  out  at  the  time  of contract  award,
to  personnel  and
along  with 
equipment.  Where  pre-qualification  is  not  used,  the  qualification  of the
bidder  who  is  recommended  for  award  of contract  shall  be  assessed  by
post-qualification,  applying the qualification  criteria stated  in  the bidding
documents.

the  bidder's  capability  with  respect 

Bid  Evaluation:  All  bid  evaluation  criteria  other  than  price  shall  be
quantifiable  in  monetary  terms.  Merit  points  shall  not  be  used,  and  no
minimum  point  or  percentage  value  shall  be  assigned  to  the  evaluation
criteria  or  significance  of price  in  bid  evaluation.  No  negotiations  shall
be  permitted.

(f) 

(g) 

-15-

(h) 

(i) 

Ij) 

(k) 

(1) 

Guarantees:  Guarantees  shall  be  in  the  format,  shall  have  the  period  of
validity  and  shall  be  submitted  when  and  as  specified  in  the  bidding
documents.

Cost Estimates:  Detailed  cost estimates shall  be  confidential  and  shall  not
be  disclosed  to  prospective  bidders.  No  bids  shall  be  rejected  on  the
basis  of comparison  with  the  cost  estimates  without  the  World  Bank's
prior written concurrence.

Rejection  of bids  and  re-bidding:  No  bid  shall  be  rejected  solely because
it  falls  outside  of a  predetermined  price  range  or  exceeds  the  estimated
cost.  All  bids  (or  the  sole  bid  if only  one  bid  is  received)  shall  not  be
rejected,  the  procurement  process  shall  not  be  cancelled,  and  new  bids
shall  not  be  solicited  without 
the  World  Bank's  prior  written
concurrence.

Fraud  and  corruption:  In  accordance  with  the  Procurement  Guidelines,
each  bidding  document  and  contract  shall  include  provisions  stating the
World  Bank's  policy  to  sanction  firms  or  individuals  found  to  have
the  Procurement
engaged 
Guidelines.

in  fraud  and  corruption  as  set  forth 

in 

In  accordance  with 

the  Procurement
Inspection  and  audit  rights: 
Guidelines,  each  bidding  document  and  contract  shall  include  provisions
stating  the  Bank's  policy  with  respect  to  inspection  and  audit  of
accounts,  records  and  other documents  relating  to the  submission  of bids
and contract  performance.

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The following  table
specifies  methods  of procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,
which  may be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The Procurement  Plan  shall  specify
the circumstances  under which  such  methods  may be  used:

-16-

Procurement  Method

(a)  Quality-based  Selection

(b)  Selection  under a  Fixed Budget

(c)  Least Cost  Selection

(d) 

Selection  based on Consultants'  Qualifications

(e)  Single-source  Selection of consulting firms

(f)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and 5.3  of the  Consultant

Guidelines  for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(g)  Single-source  procedures  for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by  the World  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to the
World  Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject to  Post  Review
by  the  World  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of:  (a)  Article  III  of the  Standard  Conditions;  (b)  this  Section;  and (c)
such  additional  instructions  as  the  World  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the
Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"
dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  World  Bank  and  as  made
applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set  forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2 below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocations  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in  each Category:

A. 

1. 

2. 

.17-

B. 
S. 

Category 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

5,000,000 

100%

Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services  and
consultants'  services
under  Part  3.C  of the
Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 

5,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a)  for payments  made  prior  to the date of this Agreement;  and

to 

(b)  Until  and  unless  the  Borrower  has  adopted  operational  arrangements
the  World  Bank  for  the  sustainable  operation  and
acceptable 
maintenance  of  traditional  canals  and  has  provided  resources  for  the
maintenance  of  canals  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  in  the  approved
annual  budget  for the Fiscal Year  in  which  the withdrawal  is  made.

2. 

The Closing Date  is  December  31,  2019.

SCHEDULE  3

Repayment  Schedule

Date  Payment Due 

Principal  Amount of  the  Loan
repayable
(expressed  as  a percentage)

On each  April  15  and  October  15:
commencing  October  15,  2023  to  and including 
April  15,  2033
commencing  October  15,  2033  to  and including 
April  15,  2053

1%

2%

I

o-18-

7a

I

do

do

-19-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Adaptation  Contingency  Fund"  means the fund  established under  Part  3.B  of the
Project  to  provide  Sub-Project  Grants  contingent  upon  the  early  warning  of  a
disaster  for  the  implementation  of  Sub-Projects  aimed  at 
the
Beneficiaries'  preparedness  in  the event  that the disaster takes  place.

increasing 

"Agreed  Annual  Work  Plan"  means  the  program  of activities  agreed  each  Fiscal
Year  between  the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  for  implementation  under  the
Project  in  accordance  with  Section  I.B  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  during
the  following  Fiscal  Year,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with  said  Section.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Barotse  Royal  Establishment"  mean 
traditional  chiefs  of  the  Lozi
community  recognized  and  operating  under  the  Chief's  Act, Chapter  287  of the
Laws  of the  Borrower.

the 

"Beneficiaries"  means  the  District  Councils,  Wards,  community  groups  or
individuals  who  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  specified  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual  and  the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  for  receiving
Sub-Project  Grants  and  to  which  or  for  whose  benefit  a  Sub-Project  Grant  is
made  or  proposed  to  be  made,  and  in  its  singular  form  the  term  means  any  one
such  grouping.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of  the
Project,  has  experienced  or would  experience  direct economic  and  social  impacts
caused  by:  (i)  the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (A)  relocation  or  loss
of shelter;  (B)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (C)  loss  of income  sources  or
means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  person  must  move  to  another  location;
the  involuntary  restriction  to  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and
or  (ii) 
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of such  persons;
and "Displaced  Persons"  means  more  than one  Displaced  Person.

I

I.9.

0-20-

711.

di 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

"District" means  an  administrative  subdivision  of the Borrower  within  a Province
established  pursuant  to  Provincial  and  Districts  Boundaries  Act,  Chapter  286  of
the  Laws  of the Borrower.

"District  Council"  means  a  local  government  unit within  the Borrower's  territory
established  and operating  pursuant  to  Local  Government  Act,  Chapter  281  of the
Laws  of the Borrower.

"District  Planner"  means  a  staff of the  Borrower  responsible  for  planning  at  the
District level  and  referred to  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"District  Planning  Advisory  sub-Committee"  means  the  planning  committee  of
the  Borrower  established  for  each  District  comprising  representatives 
from
various  line  ministries  and  government  agencies  at  the  district  level,  the  Barotse
Royal  Establishment  and civil  society,  and referred  to  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule
2  to this Agreement.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  "EMP"  means  an  Environmental
Management  Plan  acceptable  to the  World  Bank and prepared  in  accordance  with
the ESMF  and "EMPs"  means,  collectively,  all  such  plans.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  prepared  and adopted  by the
Borrower,  dated  February  2013,  defining  the  set  of  mitigation,  enhancement,
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures  to  be  taken  during  implementation  of the
Project  to  eliminate  any  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts,  offset  them,
reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  to  enhance  positive  impacts  of the  Project
activities,  as  such  framework  may  be  amended  by  the  Borrower  from  time  to
time,  with the prior  written  agreement  of the  World  Bank.

"Fiscal  Year"  means  each  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower  commencing  on  January  I
and  ending on  December  31.

in  respect  of  each  of  the  audited  Financial
"Management  Letter"  means, 
Statements  of the Borrower,  a  letter  issued  by the  external  auditors  as  part  of the
annual  audit  report  setting forth  internal  control  weaknesses  identified  during the
audit  period.

"Ministry  of  Finance"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  responsible  for  matters
relating to finance.

"National  Climate  Change  Secretariat"  means  the  Interim  National  Climate
Change  Secretariat  unit of the  Borrower  established  in  the Ministry  of Finance to
oversee  all  climate  resilience  interventions  in  the  country  and  comprising  of
technical  and  operational  Staff of the  Borrower,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement  or  its  successor  thereto.

I

I19.

S,adated 

-21  -

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

"National  Disaster  Management  and  Mitigation  Unit"  or "DMMU"  means  a  unit
of  the  Borrower  referred  to  in  Section  L.A  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement
for  disaster  management  and  mitigation  and  established  and
responsible 
operating  under  the  Disaster  Management  Act,  Act  No.  13  of 2010,  or  its  legal
successor  thereto.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  by the  Borrower  for
Project  implementation,  supervision,  management,  and  monitoring,  on  account
of  office  space  rental  and  utilities,  office  supplies  and  consumables,  bank
charges,  communications,  vehicle  operation,  maintenance  and 
insurance,
building  and  equipment  maintenance  and  insurance,  Project  related  travel  costs
and  subsistence,  advertising  and  contracted  staff salaries  (other  than  consultants'
services),  but  excluding salaries  of civil  servants.

"Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual"  means  the  Participatory
Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  in  form  and  substance  acceptable  to  the
World  Bank  prepared  by  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of said  Section.

"Pest  Management  Plan"  or  "PMP"  means  the Borrower's  plan  acceptable  to  the
World  Bank,  dated  February2013,  setting  out  the  measures  to  be  taken  for  the
development  and  implementation  of  integrated  pest  management  and  safe
handling  of pesticides  in  the course  of Project  implementation,  as  the  same  may
be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  World
Bank, and such term  includes  any schedules  or annexes  to  such Plan.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
April  2,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant Guidelines,  as  the same  shall  be
updated  from time to time  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Program"  means  the  Strategic  Program  for  Climate  Resilience  designed  to
mainstream  climate  change  into the  most  economically  vulnerable  sectors  of the
Borrower's  economy  and set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  June  14,  2011
from  the Borrower  to the  World  Bank.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the Project Operational  Manual  in  form  and
substance  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  prepared  by the  Borrower  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of Section  I.B  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same
may  be  amended  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of said  Section.

I

I 

27.

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

-22-

"Province"  means  an  administrative  subdivision  of  the  Borrower  established
pursuant  to  Provincial  and  Districts  Boundaries  Act,  Chapter  286  of the Laws  of
the Borrower.

"Provincial  Planning  Sub-Committee"  means  the  planning  committee  of  the
the  Western  Province  administration  comprising
Borrower  established  at 
representatives  from  various  line  ministries  and  government  agencies  at  the
provincial  level,  the  Barotse  Royal  Establishment  and  civil  society,  and  referred
to  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  "PPIU"  means  a  unit  of  the
to  oversee  Project
Borrower  established 
in  the  Barotse  sub-basin  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A  of
implementation 
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

in  Mongu  Western  Province 

"RAP"  means  the resettlement  action  plan,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to
the  World  Bank,  prepared  or  to  be  prepared  by  the Borrower  on  the basis  of the
RPF,  and  giving details  of the specific  actions,  measures  and policies  designed to
facilitate  the achievement  of the  objectives  of the RPF,  along  with  the procedural
and  institutional  measures  needed  to  implement  such  actions,  measures  and
policies,  as  such  RAP  may  be  amended  from  time  to time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the  World  Bank.

"RPF"  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  acceptable  to  the World  Bank,
dated February  2013,  adopted  by the Borrower,  and giving  details  of provisions  for
compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced  Persons,  as
such  RPF  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of
the World  Bank.

"SCF-PPCR  Grant  Agreement"  means  the  Strategic  Climate  Fund-Pilot  Program
for  Climate  Resilience  Grant  Agreement,  entered  into  between  the  International
Development  Association,  acting  as  an  implementing  entity  of  the  Strategic
Climate  Fund  - Pilot  Program  for  Climate  Resilience  and  the  Borrower  on  the
same  date  as  this  Agreement  for the  financing  of the  Project  ( SCF-PPCR  Grant
No.  TF014588-ZM).

"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Loans  Made  by  the
World  Bank  Out of the Climate  Investment  Funds,  dated  February  15,  2012  with
the modifications  set forth  in  Section  II  of this Appendix.

"Sub-Project"  means  a  priority  investment  proposed  to  be  implemented  by  an
eligible  District,  Ward,  community  group  or  individual  and  which  meets  the
eligibility criteria  set  out  in  the Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual
and  the  provisions  of  Section  1. C  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and  are

I

-23-

eligible  to  receive  financing  under  Part  3 of the  Project,  and  Sub-Projects  means
two  or more  of such investments.

"Sub-Project  Grant"  means  a  grant  financing  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  by
the  Borrower  for the  purpose  of financing  eligible  Sub-Projects  under the  Project
and referred  to in  Section  1. C  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  satisfactory  to  the  World
Bank,  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Beneficiary  through  which  the  Borrower
provides  Sub-Project  Grants  to  eligible  Beneficiaries,  and  referred  to  in  Section
L.C  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of training  under  the  Project,  based  on
annual  budgets  approved  by  the  World  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,
workshops,  study  programs  and  tours,  along  with  tuition,  travel  and  subsistence
services  of  trainers  and  workshop
allowances 
facilitators,  rental  of training  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of training
materials,  and  other activities  directly  related  to  course  or  workshop  preparation
and  implementation.

training  participants, 

for 

"United  Nations  Office  for  Procurement  Services"  or  "UNOPS"  means  an
agency  of the  United  Nations  established  in  1974  to  expand  the  capacity  of the
United  Nations  system  and 
its  partners 
implement  peace  building,
humanitarian  and development  operations  that matter for people  in  need.

to 

"Ward"  means  an  electoral  and  administrative  subdivision  of the  District Council
established  pursuant  to  the Local  Government  Elections  Act,  Chapter  282  of the
Laws  of the Borrower.

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the Standard Conditions

The  modification  to the  Standard Conditions  is as  follows:

Section 4.01  (Management Fee) of the  Standard  Conditions  is deleted  in  its  entirety.

