UMWI

LOAN NUMBER  8242-TR

Loan Agreement

(Small and Medium Enterprises  Energy Efficiency  Project)

TVRKtYE HALK BANKASI  A.$.

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2013

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

, 2013,  between  TORKIYE  HALK
BANKASI  A.$.  ("Borrower"  or  Halkbank")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01, 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix 
constitute an  integral  part of this Agreement.

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this Agreemen'

the  capitalized  terms  used 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank  agrees  to lend  to the Borrower, on the terms  and conditions set  forth or
in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  sixty-seven  million  Dollars
referred 
($67,000,000)  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  its  Respective  Part of the  Project
described  in Schedule  I to this Agreement ("Project").

to 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be equal to  one quarter of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.  The  Borrower shall  pay the Front-end  Fee
not later than sixty (60)  days after the Effective Date.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
remains  unpaid when  due  and  such  non-payment continues  for a  period  of thirty
(30) days,  then the interest payable  by the Borrower shall  instead be calculated  as
provided in  Section 3.02(e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment  Dates are  March  15  and  September  15  in each year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization schedule  set forth in Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the Borrower  shall  cany out  its  Respective  Part  of the  Project  in  accordance
with the provisions of Article  V of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower,  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  its  Respective  Part  of the  Project  is  carried  out  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The Borrower  shall  have adopted  the  Operational  Manual.
The  Co-financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all
conditions  precedent  to  its  effectiveness  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of
this  Agreement)  have  been  fulfilled.

4.02.  The Additional  Legal  Matter consists  of the  following, namely, the  Co-financing
Agreement  has  been  duly authorized  by the  Borrower and  is  legally binding upon
the Borrower in accordance  with  its terms.

4.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES
The Borrower's  Representative  is the General  Manager of the  Borrower.

5.01. 

5.02.  The Borrower's Address  is:

TUrkiye Halk  Bankasi  A.S.
Barbaros  Mahallesi
Sebboy Sokak No. 4
Ataehir
Istanbul
Republic  of Turkey

Facsimile:

(90-312)  289  1790

-2-

5.03. 

The Bank's  Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

249423(MCI)  or 
64145(MC)

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED at Ankara, Republic  of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.

TORKIYE HALK  BANKASI  A.$.

Authorized Aepresentative

YL, 

'V4llI

e?i,

Name: 

Title: 

Auth9rized  Representative

Name:

Title:- 

42~AD

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

0   &Q4r

Name: 

Title: 

HcrCf

1C

By

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  the  efficiency  of energy use  in  small
and  medium  enterprises  in  the  Republic  of  Turkey,  by  scaling-up  commercial  bank
lending for energy efficiency  investments.

The Project consists  of the following parts:

Pat:  Credit Line to  Halkbank

The  establishment  and  operation  of  a  credit  facility  within  Halkbank  for  the
1. 
financing of Sub-projects  through  the  provision  of Sub-loans  by Halkbank  to  Sub-project
Sponsors  to finance  the cost of carrying out  Sub-project

The  establishment  of  a  loan  loss  reserve  fund  within  Halkbank  to  assist  in
2. 
defraying  risks  associated  with  new  energy  efficiency  loan  products  and  in  addressing
SME collateral  requirements.

Enhancement  of  the  capacity  of  Halkbank  to  implement  this  Part  A  of  the

3. 
Project.

Eg.R:  Credit Line to Vakifbank

The  establishment  and  operation  of a  credit  facility  within  Vakifbank  for  the
1. 
financing  of  Sub-projects  through  the  provision  of  Sub-loans  by  Vakifbank  to  Sub-
project Sponsors  to finance the cost of carrying  out Sub-projects.

The  establishment  of a  loan  loss  reserve  fund  within  Vakifbank  to  assist  in
2. 
defraying  risks  associated  with  new  energy  efficiency  loan  products  and  in  addressing
SME  collateral  requirements.

Enhancement  of  the  capacity  of  Vakifbank  to  implement  this  Part  B  of  the

3. 
Project.

Patt_C:  Credit Line to Ziraatbank

The  establishment  and  operation  of a  credit  facility  within  Ziraatbank  for  the
1. 
financing  of Sub-projects  through  the  provision  of  Sub-loans  by  Ziraatbank  to  Sub-
project Sponsors to finance the cost of carrying out  Sub-projects.

The  establishment  of  a  loan  loss  reserve  fund  within  Zirantbank  to  assist  in
2. 
defraying  risks  associated  with  new  energy  efficiency  loan  products  and  in  addressing
SME  collateral  requirements.

-5-

3. 
Project.

Enhancement  of  the  capacity  of  Ziraatbank  to  implement  this  Part  C  of  the

P.AD:  Enemy  Efficiency Policy and Project Management  Support  to MENR

1. 
Enhancement  of the  enabling  environment  for,  and  the  fostering  of, broader
energy  efficiency  market  development  in  the  Republic  of Turkey  through,  inter  alia,  the
following activities  to be carried out by MENR:

(a) 

Market  development 

and 
including:
(i) raising  awareness  of,  and  providing  training  and  disseminating  information  on,
opportunities  for  energy  efficiency  and  the  success  of  schemes  used  in  the  credit  line.
established  under  the  Project;  (ii)  carrying  out  market  studies  and  assessments  and
developing  options  for  future  investment  programs  beyond  the  SME  market; 
and
(iii)  establishing  a  dialogue  with  stakeholders.

information  dissemination, 

(b) 

Strengthening  of the  energy  efficiency  and  regulatory  regimes,  including
carrying  out:  (i) reviews  of energy  efficiency  policies  and  developing  recommendations
for improvement  especially in  the  SME  sector;  reviews  of energy efficiency incentive  and
infomational  programs  (including  impact  assessments) and  developing recommendations
to  improve  utilization  and  impact  of  those  programs;  and  reviews  of  institutional
arrangements  to  strengthen  the  energy efficiency  policy  and  implementation  function  in
all sectors;  and (ii)  staff training.

2. 

Support MENR's  management  of activities  under this Part D  of the Project.

.6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation ArranaeM  ents

Institutional and Other Arrangements

A. 

1I 

2 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the
following  to  the  satisfaction  of the  Bank:  maintain  until  the  completion  of  its
Respective  Part of the  Project,  the PIU  and  ensure  that the  PIU  functions  at all
times  in  a  manner  and  with  staffing  and  budgetary  resources  necessary  and
appropriate  for  implementation  of its  Respective Part  of the Project.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  Operational  Manual  in  form  and  content
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  shall  duly  perform  all  its  obligations  under  th,
Operational  Manual  and  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the
Operational  Manual without obtaining the prior approval  of the Bank.

The Borrower  shall,  throughout  the  implementation  of its  Respective  Part  of the
Project, comply with the applicable prudential  regulations of the Guarantor.

The  Borrower shall  ensure that  its Respective  Part  of the  Project is carried  out in
accordance  with the provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

For  the purposes  of carrying  out its  Respective  Part  of the Project, the  Borrower
shall:

Make Sub-loans  to Sub-project  Sponsors on the terms  and conditions  set

(a) 
forth  in the Operational  Manual,  including, without limitation,  the terms and
conditions set forth  in Section LB  of this  Schedule 2.

Exercise  its rights  in relation  to each  such  Sub-loan  in such  manner  as to

(b) 
protect its interests  and the  interests of the Guarantor and the Bank.

Appraise  Sub-projects  and supervise,  monitor  and  report  on the carrying
in  accordance  with  the

(c) 
out  by  the  Sub-project  Sponsors  of  Sub-projects, 
Operational  Manual.

Ensure  that each  Sub-project  shall  comply with  environmental and  social
(d) 
safeguard  review  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  as  well  as  with  the
Environmental  Policy Framework.

-7-

(e) 

Ensure that:

(i) 

(ii) 

not more  than twenty  percent  (20%)  of the  Loan  proceeds  shall
be  made  available,  through  Sub-loans  to  Sub-project  Sponsors
that are Mid-cap  Companies;  and

not more  than twenty  percent  (20%)  of the  Loan  proceeds  shall
be  made  available,  through  Sub-loans  to  Sub-project  Sponsors
that  are  Leasing  Companies,  which  are  Subsidiaries  of  the
Borrower.  For purposes  of this  sub-paragraph  5(e), "Subsidiary"
means  a company  or  entity  in which  the  Borrower  has  equity or
other 
interest  as  so  defined  under  the  Guarantor's  banking
legislation;  and  "Subsidiaries"  means  the  aggregate  of all  such
Subsidiary.

(f) 
Upon  Committing  fifty  percent  (50%)  of the  Loan:  (i) use  its  own  funds
(that  is,  other  than  Loan  proceeds)  to  finance  Sub-projects,  which  shall  be
appraised,  selected  and  supervised  in accordance  with  the  Operational  Manual;
and (ii) ensure that  by the  Closing Date,  the aggregate  of such  financing  shall  be
equivalent  to  at  least  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  of the  Loan.  For  purposes  of
this  sub-paragraph  5(f),  "Committing"  means  the  Borrower  has  entered  into
written  contracts  with  Sub-project  Sponsors  in accordance  with the  provisions  of
paragraph  9 of Section LB  of this  Schedule.

(g) 
Until  the  Closing  date,  utilize  all  payments  made  by  a  Sub-project
Sponsor under  a  Sub-loan  to  finance  additional  Sub-projects  on  the  same  terms
and  conditions  set out forth  in Section 

.B of this Schedule  2.

Terms and Conditions  of Sub-loans

Terms

Each  Sub-loan  shall  be  charged 
the  principal  amount  thereof
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time,  at  such  a  rate  as  may  be
determined  by  the  Borrower  on  the  basis  of its  assessment  of market  conditions
and risk management.

interest,  on 

Each  Sub-loan  to:  (a) a  Sub-project  Sponsor  that  is  a  SME  shall  not  exceed
$3,500,000;  and  (b) a  Sub-project  Sponsor  that  is  a  Mid-Cap  Company,  a
Leasing  Company or an ESCO shall  not exceed  $5,000,000.
Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  aggregate  principal  amount  under
multiple  Sub-loans  made  by  the  Borrower  to  any  of  the  following  and  its
affiliates  shall  not exceed  $10,000,000  equivalent:  (a)  a Sub-project  Sponsor that

B. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

-8-

is  a  SME  or Mid-cap  Company;  and  (b)  a  beneficiary  of a  Sub-project  Sponsor
that is an ESCO or a Leasing Company.

4. 

No  expenditures  for  a  Sub-project  shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out  of  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  unless  such  expenditures  shall  have  been  made  not earlier
than  three hundred  and sixty (360)  days  prior to  the date  on which the  Borrower
shall  have  received  the  application  from  any  Sub-project  Sponsor  and  any
information  required  under paragraph  5 of Section LB  of this  Schedule  in  respect
of such  Sub-loan,  but  in any case  not earlier than  on or before April  16,  2012.

Approval procedures

5. 

Each  Sub-loan shall  be approved  on the  basis of:

a  description  of the  Sub-project  Sponsor  and  an  appraisal  of the  Sub.
(8) 
project,  including  a  description  of the  expenditures  proposed  to be  financed  out
of the proceeds  of the Loan;

(b) 
schedule  of amortization  of the Sub-loan;

the  proposed 

terms  and  conditions  of  the  Sub-loan, 

including  the

a  business  plan  incorporating  a  development  plan  which  shall  be
(c) 
evaluated  by  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with  established  guidelines  for  sub-
project and credit evaluation  set forth  in the Operational  Manual;

evidence  of  compliance  with  the  Operational  Manual  and  with  the

(d) 
Environmental  Policy Framework;  and

such  other  information  as  the  Bank  or  the  Borrower  shall  reasonably

(e) 
request.

6. 

Unless  otherwise  agreed  with  the  Bank,  the  following  Sub-loans  shall  not  be
approved  without the Bank's  prior approval:

first  two  (2)  Sub-loans  to  Sub-project  Sponsors  that are  SMEs  and first

(a) 
two (2) Sub-loans  to Sub-project  Sponsors that are  Mid-Cap Companies;

each  Sub-loan to  a Sub-project  Sponsor that  is  a Leasing  Company  or an

each  Sub-project  that  will  be  supported  with  proceeds  from  the  Co-

(b) 
ESCO; and

(c) 
financing  Agreement

-9-

Sub-project Sponsor EligIbilky

7. 

Each  Sub-loan  shall  be made  to a Sub-project  Sponsor only if it has established,
to  the  satisfaction  of the  Borrower,  that  the  following  have  been  satisfied  and
shall  be maintained  during  the duration  of the  its respective  Sub-loan:
(a) 
(iv) an  ESCO.

It  is:  (i) a  SME;  (ii)  a  Mid-Cap  Company;  (iii)  a  Leasing  Company  or

(b) 
It  is  a Private  Enterprise.  For  purposes  of this  sub-paragraph  7(b),  a
Private  Enterprise  is  an  enterprise  where  more  than  fifty  percent  (50%)  of the
shares  or other  equity  interest thereof is held  by persons  or companies  other than
the  Guarantor,  any  agency  or  subdivision  thereof,  or  any  local  governmental
authority,  or  entities  controlled  by 
the  Guarantor  or  such  agencies  or
subdivisions;

It  has  a  satisfactory 

(c) 
financial 
the  organization,
management,  staff  and  financial  and  other  resources  required  for  the  efficient
carrying  out of its  operations,  including the carrying  out of the Sub-project.
(d) 
It  promotes  undertaking  an  investment,  financing  and/or  consultancy
aimed  at  increasing  energy  efficiency,  or  decreasing  energy  consumption,  of
operations.

structure 

and 

(e) 
It  has  a  certificate  from  the  relevant  local  or  national  authorities  of the
Guarantor  about  compliance  with  applicable  environmental  laws  and  regulations
of the Guarantor.

Sub-project Eligibility

8. 

Unless otherwise  agreed between  the  Bank and the Borrower, a  Sub-loan  shall  be
made  for a  Sub-project  which  is  determined,  on  the  basis  of an appraisal  carried
out in accordance with  procedures acceptable  to the Bank:
(a) 
to 
commercially  viable;

economically, 

technically 

financially 

feasible 

and 

and

be 

(b) 
to  be  targeted  to  energy  efficiency  improvements  that  (i)  reduce  a
technical  system's  energy  intensity (energy  per unit  of output)  by at  least twenty
percent  (20%),  or  (ii) generate  at  least  fifty  percent  (50%)  of financial  benefits
from  energy cost savings;

(c) 

to generate  a financial  rate  of return  of at least eight percent (8%);
(d) 
to  be  in  compliance  with  all  requirements  pertaining  to  environmental
protection  applicable  under  the  laws  and  regulations  of the  Guarantor  and  with

-10-

the  Environmental  Policy  Framework.  To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  require
to  furnish  evidence
each  Sub-project  Sponsor  applying  for  a  Sub-loan 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  showing  that  the  Sub-project  in
respect of which the application  has been made, has been  prepared  in accordance
with  such  procedures,  such  evidence  to  include,  inter alia, an  environmental
the  requirements  of  the
management  plan  prepared 
Environmental  Policy Framework  for a Sub-project submitted  for approval;

in  accordance  with 

(e) 

not to be supporting  or include  any of the Excluded  Activities;

to  be  located  in  any  of the  following  river  basins  in  the  event  that  the
(f) 
Sub-project  activity  entails  potential  use  of  or  discharge  into  waterways:
Susurluk,  North  Aegean,  Gediz,  Kuquk  Menderes,  Buyuk  Menderes,  Western
Mediterranean,  Antalya,  Sakarya,  Western  Black  Sea,  Yesilirmak,  Kizilirmak,
Konya  Kapali,  Eastern  Mediterranean,  Seyhan,  Ceyhan,  Eastern  Black  Sea.
Burdur,  Afyon, Orta Anadolu  and Van;  and

with  respect  to  a  Sub-project  being  proposed  by  a  Sub-project  Sponsor
(g) 
that is  a Leasing  Company or an  ESCO,  the beneficiary of the Sub-projects  shall
have  satisfied the criteria set out in sub-paragraphs  7(b)  through  7(e).

Wrtten Contract

9. 

A  Sub-loan  shall  be  made  on  further  conditions  whereby  the  Borrower  shall
obtain,  by written  contract  with the  Sub-project  Sponsor  or  by other appropriate
legal  means,  rights  adequate  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Guarantor,  the  Bank
and the Borrower, including the right to:

Require  the  Sub-project  Sponsor  to  carry  out  and  operate  the  facilities
(a) 
financed  under  the  Sub-project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in
accordance  with  sound  technical,  financial  and  managerial  standards,  and  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to
recipients  of  loan  proceeds  other  than the  Borrower,  and  to  maintain  adequate
records.

Without  limitation  to  the  generality  of the  provisions  of the preceding
(b) 
paragraph  (a),  require  the  Sub-project  Sponsor  to  carry  out  and  operate  the Sub-
project  with  due  regard  to  applicable  social  impact,  ecological,  environmental
and  pollution  control  standards  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Operational  Manual.

For  any  Sub-project  which  needs  an  environmental  management  plan,

(c) 
require the  Sub-project Sponsor to carry out such  plan  in a timely manner.

-11-

Require 

that:  (i) 

(d) 
the  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and
consultants'  services  to be financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Sub-loan  shall  be
procured  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  M  of this Schedule;  and
(ii)  use  such  goods,  works,  and  services  exclusively  in  the  carrying  out  of the
Sub-project.

(e) 
Inspect,  by  itself  or  jointly  with  representatives  of  the  Bank  or  the
Guarantor, if the Bank or the Guarantor shall  so request,  such  goods and the  sites,
works,  plants and construction  included  in the  Sub-project, the  operation thereof,
and  any  relevant  records and documents.

(f) 
Require  that  the  Sub-project  Sponsor  shall  take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible  insurers  such  insurance,  against  such  risks  and  in  such  amounts,  as
shall  be  consistent with  sound  business practice;  and without any  limitation  upon
the  foregoing,  such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident  to  the  acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Sub-loan
to  the  place  of use or  installation,  any  indemnity  thereunder  to  be  made  payable
in  a  currency  freely  usable  by  the  Sub-project  Sponsor  to  replace  or  repair  such
goods.

(g) 
Obtain  all  such information  as  the Bank or the Borrower  shall  reasonably
request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and  to  the  administration,  operations  and
financial  condition  of the  Sub-project  Sponsor  and to  the  benefits  to  be  derived
from  the  Sub-project.

(h) 
Require  that  the  Sub-project  Sponsor  not  incur  any  debt  unless  a
reasonable  forecast of its revenues  and expenditures shows  that its  estimated cash
flow  for  each  fiscal  year  during  the  term  of the  debt  to  be  incurred  shall  be  at
least  1.2  times  its estimated  debt service requirements  in such year on all its debt,
including the debt to be incurred;  and:

(i) 

(ii) 

the  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of  the  Sub-project
Sponsor;

debt shall  be  deemed  to  be  incurred:  (A)  under a  loan  contract  or
agreement  or other  instrument  providing  for  such  debt or  for the
modification  of  its  terms  of  payment,  on  the  date  of  such
contract,  agreement  or  instrument;  and  (B)  under  a  guarantee
agreement,  on  the  date  the  agreement  providing  for  such
guarantee  has  been  entered  into;

(iii) 

the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means 
the  aggregate
amount  of repayments  of, and  interest  and  other  charges  on,
debt2

-12-

(iv) 

(v) 

the  term  "reasonable  forecast" means a  forecast  prepared  by  the
Sub-project  Sponsor  not  earlier than  twelve  months  prior  to  the
incurrence  of the  debt  in  question,  which  both  the  Bank,  the
Borrower  and the  Sub-project  Sponsor accept  as reasonable  and
as  to which  the Bank  has notified the Borrower  and  Sub-project
Sponsor  of its  acceptability,  provided  that no  event  has occurred
since such  notification  which  has, or may reasonably be expected
in  the  future  to  have, a  material  adverse  effect  on the  financial
condition or future operating  results of the  Sub-project  Sponsor;
and

whenever  for  the  purposes of this  sub-paragraph  9(h)  it  shall  b,
necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of the  currency  of the  Guarantor,
debt  payable  in another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made
on  the  basis  of the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of exchange  at  which
such  other  currency  is,  at  the time  of such  valuation,  obtainabk
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,  in the  absence of such
rate, on the basis  of a rate of exchange  acceptable  to the Bank.

(i) 

(j) 

With  respect  to  a  Sub-project  Sponsor  that  is  an  ESCO  or  a  Leasing
Company,  require  that  such  Sub-project  Sponsor  obtains,  by  written
contract  or other  legal  means, rights  to ensure  that the beneficiary  of the
Sub-project carries  out the Sub-project in  accordance  with  the provisions
of the Operational  Manual.

Suspend  and  terminate  the  right  of the Sub-project  Sponsor  to  the  use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure  by such  Sub-project  Sponsor to
perform  its obligations under  its contract with the Borrower.

Section  I. 

Prolect Monitorina  RortLs  and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1: 

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of its  Respective
Part  of the  Project  (including  progress  in  implementation  of the  Environmental
Policy  Framework  and  plans  prepared  in  accordance  with  said  framework  and
accepted  by  the  Bank)  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of
indicators  agreed  with  the Bank.  Each  Project Report  shall cover  the  period  of
one calendar semester, and shall  be furnished to the  Bank not  later than forty-five
(45)  days after the end of the period covered  by  such report.

(b)  Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  above,  the
Borrower shall  list,  in the Project  Report,  basic information  relating to each  Sub-
project  approved  for  financing  under  its  Respective  Part of the Project,  including

-13-

the location  and  nature  of the Sub-project,  energy  savings expected/monitored  of
the  investment,  and  the  date  on  which  Sub-project  activities  began  and  were
completed.  Additionally,  the  Borrower  agrees that  the  Bank  may  disclose  the
foregoing  information  to the public.

B. 

1. 

2. 

Finandal Management, Financial  Reports and  Audits

The Borrower  shall maintain  or cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the provisions  of Part  A of this  Section,  the Borrower sha.l
prepare  and  furnish  to the Bank as  part of the Project Report  not later than  forty-
five (45)  days after  the end of each  calendar  semester, interim  unaudited  financial
reports  for its  Respective  Part of the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to the Bank.

3. 

The Borrower shall have:

the Financial  Statements  for its Respective  Part  of the Project  audited in
(a) 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09(b)  of the  General  Conditions.
Each audit of the  Financial Statements  shall cover the period  of one fiscal year of
the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank not  later than  six (6) months after  the  end of such  period;
and

its  entity  financial  statements  audited  in  accordance  with  standards  set
(b) 
out in  of Section  5.09(b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of such  entity
financial  statements  shall  cover the period of one  fiscal  year of the  Borrower and
be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  end  of such
period.

Section  I. 

Procreme

General

A. 

1. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting services  required for the Project and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred to  in  Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the provisions of
this Section.

2. 

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and to
be  financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall be  procured  in accordance  with

-14-

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank of particular
contracts  refer to the corresponding  method described  in Sections H and M of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections 
IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as the case may be.

,  III, 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise  provided  in paragrapf
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  unde-
contracts awarded  on the  basis  of International  Competitive Bidding

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works 
and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  method,  other than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may be used  for procurement  of goods,  works and non-consulting  services where
the contract  is estimated  to cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of $10,000,000:  Well-
established  Private  Sector Procurement  Methods  or Commercial  Practices  which
have  been  found  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  described 
in  the  Operational
Manual.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services
Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except as otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2 below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
method,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used 
for
procurement  of consultants'  services  where the  contract is  estimated to  cost less
than  the equivalent  of $1,000,000:  Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement
Methods  or Commercial  Practices  which  have  been  found acceptable  to the  Bank
and described  in the  Operational  Manual.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All  contracts  for:  (1) goods,  works  or  non-consulting  services  procured  using
International  Competitive  Bidding;  and  (2) consultants'  services  procured  using
Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's  Prior  Review.
All  other contracts  shall be subject to Post Review  by the Bank.

-1S-

Section  IV.  Withdrmwal  of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to this
Agreement  pursuant to such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in paragraph  2  below.

The  following table  specifies the  categories of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of th
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 

Percentage of
Expenditures to  be
Financed
(Inclusive  of Taxes)

67,000,000 

100%  of amount of Sub-
loans disbursed

Category 

(1)  Sub-Loans under 
Part A.1  of the 
Project

TOTAL 

67.000.00

B.  Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be

1. 
made:

(a) 

(b) 

from the Loan  Account until  the Bank  has received  payment in full  of the
Front-end Fee;  or

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $6,700,000
equivalent  may  be  made  for  payments  made prior  to  this date  but on  or
after April  16,  2012, for Eligible  Expenditures  under Category (1).

2. 

The Closing Date  is September  28, 2018.

-16-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date:

Principal  Payment  Datt. 

On  each  March  15  and  September  15

Beginning March  15,  2019
through  September  15, 2042 

On  March  15,  2043 

Installment  Shart
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

2.04%

2.08%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of such  date in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
withdrawal 
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount of each  such withdrawal  by a  fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the original  Installment  Share  specified  in the  table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shams  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan withdrawn  within  two calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as

-17-

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are issued  on or after the respective  Principal Payment Date, the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
to  any
withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in more  than  one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply separately  to the amount denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  fo-
each  such amount.

-18-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  1BRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants", dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised in January  2011,  which
are  applicable  to all IBRD  loans and IDA  credits  and  grants.

"Category"  means a  category set  forth  in the table  in Section IV  of Schedule 4  to
this Agreement.

"Co-financier"  means the Global  Environment  Facility.

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  16  of  the  Appendix  to  thc
General  Conditions, an  amount of $900,000 to be provided  by the Co-financier  to
assist  in  financing  the Respective  Part of the Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be entered  into  between  the
Borrower and the Co-financier  providing  for the  Co-financing.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January 2011.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of the
Project,  have  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social
impacts  caused  by,  (a) the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation
or  loss  of  shelter;  (ii)  loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income
sources  or  means  of  livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  persons  must  move  to
another  location;  or (b)  the involuntary  restriction  of access to  legally designated
parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in adverse  impacts  on  the livelihood  of such
persons.

8. 

9. 

"Energy  Performance  Contract"  means  a contract  entered  into  between  an ESCO
and  a client  which guarantees  the realization  of energy  savings  and/or efficiency
gain  as  a  result  of  identified  investments  or  measures  and  as  more  particularly
defined  in the Operational  Manual.

"Environmental  Policy  Framework"  means  Environmental  Review  Procedures
disclosed  by  the Borrower  locally  on October  31,  2012,  which  sets  forth  policies
and  procedures  for  environmental  screening  of  Sub-projects,  for  conducting
environmental  assessments  and  specifying  requirements 
for  environmental
mitigation  measures  to  be  included  in  environmental  management  plans;  and
such  document constitutes an integral  part of the Operational  Manual.

-19-

10. 

"ESCO"  means  an  energy  service  company 
performance-based  contracts, 
efficiency of operations of its clients.

is  engaged, 
to  reduce  energy  consumption  and 

that 

through
improve

11. 

"Excluded Activities" means,  collectively:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Any of the activities listed,  or activities that produce  and/or use materials
listed,  in the  Operations  Manual  and which  are classified  and  referred  to
as part of the negative list in said  manual.

An  investment  that  is  classified  as  a  Category  "A"  Sub-project  in
accordance with  the provisions  of the Operational  Manual.

An investment that entails  land acquisition  or  involuntary resettlement  o-
would  give  rise to Displaced  Persons.

An  investment  that  involves  the  potential  use  of,  or  discharge  into,
waterways 
(or  detailed  design  and  engineering  studies  of  such
investment)  located  in  basins  not listed  in  sub-paragraph  8(f)  of Section
I.B  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

(c) 

An  investment  that  involves  the  construction  of a  new  dam  or  will  rely
on the performance  of an  existing dam or a dam under construction.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions for Loans", dated March  12,  2012.

"Guarantee  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of the  same  date  between  the
Republic  of Turkey  and  the  Bank  providing  for  the  guarantee  of the  Loan,  as
such agreement  may be amended  from time  to time.

"Guarantor"  means  the Republic  of Turkey.

"Halkbank"  and  "Ttirkiye  Halk  Bankasi  A.J."  mean  a  joint-stock  company
operating  pursuant  to  Law No.  4603  dated  November  15,  2000,  and  which  is
responsible  for implementation  of its Respective  Part the Project.

"Leasing Company" means  a private  leasing company registered according  to the
applicable  laws and regulations of the Guarantor.

"MENR"  means  the  Guarantor's  Ministry  of Energy  and  Natural  Resources,  or
any successor  thereto.

"Mid-cap  Company"  means  an  enterprise  that:  (a)  is  not  an  SME;  (b)  has  less
than  150,000,000  Turkish  Lira  in  sales;  and  (c)  employs  fewer  than  1,500
employees.

-20-

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  dated  February  14,  2013  and  to  be
adopted  by 
the  Borrower,  setting  out  the  operational  and  administrative
procedures 
in  respect  of  the  preparation,  approval,  processing,  financing,
implementation,  and  supervision  of Sub-projects,  and  the  manual  includes  the
Environmental  Policy Framework.

"PIU"  means  the  implementation  unit  within 
Banking and Structured Finance  Department, or any successor to such unit.

the  Borrower's  International

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

22. 

"Respective  Part of the Project"  means with  respect to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Halkbank, Part A  of the  Project;

Vakifbank,  Part  B of the Project;  and

Ziraatbank, Part C of the Project.

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

"SME"  means  a  small  or  medium  enterprise  that  has  less  than  40,000,000
Turkish Lira in sales and employs fewer than 250 employees.

"Sub-loan'  means  a loan made  by the  Borrower, out of the proceeds  of the Loan
to  a  Sub-Project  Sponsor  in accordance  with  the  provisions  in  paragraph  5 of
Section L.A  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"Sub-loan  Contract"  means  a  contract  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and a
Sub-project  Sponsor for the  provision  of a  Sub-loan  to a  Sub-project Sponsor  to
carry out a  Sub-project.

"Sub-project"  means  a  specific  investment  project  under  the  Respective  Part  of
the Project  and to be  carried  out  by a  Sub-project  Sponsor utilizing the proceeds
of a Sub-loan.

"Sub-project  Sponsor"  means  any  of the  following  and  to  which  the  Borrower
proposes  to  make  or  has  made  a  Sub-loan:  a  SME,  a  Mid-cap  Company,  a
Leasing Company  and  an ESCO.

"Vakifbank"  and  "TUrkiye  Vakiflar  Bankasi  T.A.O."  mean  a  joint  stock
company  established  pursuant  to  the  statutes  published  in  the  Trade  Registry
Gazette  No.  8608  dated January  15,  1954  (Trade Registry No.  6219),  and which
is responsible for implementation  of its Respective  Part of the  Project.

-21-

29. 

"Ziraatbank"  and  "TUrkiye  Cumhuriyeti  Ziraat  Bankasi  A."  mean  a joint stock
company  first founded  in  1863  with its  bank status  confirmed  in  March  23,  1916
under  a  special  law  and  its  legal  status  revised  to  be  a  joint  stock  company
pursuant  to Law  No.  4603  dated  November  15,  2000,  and  which  is  responsible
for implementation  of its Respective  Part of the Project.

-22-

