OFFICIA
I DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8417-VN

Loan Agreement

(Transmission Efficiency  Project)

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

2 

,2014

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 
, 2014,  between  SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC  OF  VIETNAM 
("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree as follows:

k<l 2 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  five  hundred  million  Dollars
($500,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to assist in financing  the  project  described  in Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to one  quarter of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon  a Conversion  of all  or  any  portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,.the  interest payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment  Dates are April  15  and October  15  in each year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisions set forth  in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting  of limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar  on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end, the  Borrower  shall cause  the Project to  be carried  out by  the  National  Power
Transmission  Corporation  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions and  the Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the following,  namely  that NPT's
Legislation  has been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as to
affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the  NPT  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under the Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been executed  on behalf of the  Borrower  and NPT.

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists of the following,  namely:  (a)  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  NPT  and  is
legally binding  upon the  Borrower  and NPT  in  accordance  with  its terms;  and  (b)
the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  has  been  duly  approved  by  the  Prime
Minister  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with 
its
respective  terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  the  Governor,  or a  Deputy  Governor,  of State
Bank of Vietnam.

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

State Bank  of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai  To
Hanoi, Vietnam

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

VIETBANK 
Hanoi 

412248 
NHTWVT

(84-4)  3825  0612

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Hanoi,  Socialist  Republic  of Vietnam,  as  of  the  day  and

year  first above  written.

SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF VIETNAM

-4-

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  NJAA4  VOUI,  SjoLL

Title:__  _  _ 

_ 

_  _

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Aut)6i: 

pe

Name:  Md  vaw
yc 

u,

Title: 

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  the  capacity,  efficiency  and  reliability
of  electricity  transmission  services  in  selected  parts  of  the  electricity  transmission
network  in the  territory of the Borrower.

The Project consists  of the  following:

Part 1:  Enhancing  Transmission  Infrastructure

Carrying  out  of  an  investment  infrastructure  program  to  increase  the  capacity  and
including  the  construction  of
transmission  network, 
reliability  of  the  electricity 
transmission  lines and  substations  at the  220kV  and  500kV  levels.

Part 2:  Developing  Smart Grid Network

Carrying  out  of:  (i)  a  substation  modernization  strategy  in  targeted  areas,  including  the
replacement  or  upgrading  of  monitoring,  control,  protection,  and  other  ancillary
equipment  in  transmission  substations  at  voltage  levels  of  220  kV  and  500  kV;  (ii)
(iii)
upgrading  an  information  system  for  operation  and  equipment  management;  and 
establishment  of a data and  metering  system  for NPT.

Part 3:  Capacity Buildin2

Provision  of support  for  capacity  building  of  NPT,  including:  (a)  improvement  of the
asset management  system; (b)  assistance  in cost-reflective  transmission  tariff application;
(c)  building  financial  reporting  capacity  on the  basis  of  international  financial  reporting
standards;  and  (d)  upgrading  of the  electrical testing  laboratory  center.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements.

Ministry  of Industry and  Trade

1. 

2. 

B. 

1 .

Vietnam  Electricity

Subsidiary  Agreement

The  Borrower  shall  be  responsible  for  the  provision  of  policy  and  strategic
orientation to  the Project  through  its Ministry  of Industry and  Trade.

EVN  shall  be  responsible  for  overall  Project  coordination,  and  monitoring  and
evaluation.

To  facilitate  NPT's  implementation  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to  NPT  under  a  Subsidiary  Agreement  between
the  Borrower,  represented  by  its  Ministry  of Finance,  and  NPT,  under  terms  and
conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the  obligations  of NPT
to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(i)  pay  the  Borrower a  front-end-fee  in  an  amount  equal  to  the  Front-end
Fee  specified  in  Section  2.03  of this Agreement;  (ii)  repay  the  proceeds
of the  Loan  over  a  period  of twenty  six  (26)  years,  inclusive  of a  grace
period  of ten  (10)  years;  and (iii)  pay  interest  on the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  the  rate
payable  by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Section  2.04  of  this  Agreement,
subject  to  any  request  that  the  Borrower  may  make  pursuant  to  Section
2.07  of  this  Agreement,  plus  an  on-lending  fee  of  a  quarter  of  one
percent  (0.25%);

ensure that  the  Project  is  carried  out in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of loan  proceeds
other than the  Borrower;

ensure  that the Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree  in  writing,  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be
assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  the  aforementioned,  or  any
provision  thereof;

-7-

(d) 

(e) 

ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in accordance  with the  provisions  of
the  Safeguard  Instruments,  and  except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree
in  writing,  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be
assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  the  aforementioned,  or  any
provision  thereof;

ensure that:  (i) an acceptable  financial  management  system  is  maintained
and  financial  statements  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  consistently
applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  both  in  a  manner
adequate  to  reflect  the  operations  and  financial  condition  of  NPT,
including  the  operations,  resources,  and  expenditures  related  to  the
Project;  and  (ii)  such  statements  are  audited  by  independent  auditors
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  such  audited  financial  statements
are  furnished  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  II.D.3  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement
in  a  timely  fashion  and  in  a  manner
and  made  publicly  available 
acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

(f) 

ensure  that  procurement  of the  goods,  works,  and  services  required  for
the  Project  is carried  out in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section III
of this  Schedule  2,  as  said  provisions  may  be  further  elaborated  in  the
Procurement  Plan.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Project  Operations Manual

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with
the  POM;  and  (b)  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or waived, the
aforementioned,  or any provision thereof.

In  the  event  of a conflict  between  the  provisions  of such  POM  and  those  of this
Agreement, the  latter  shall govern.

2. 

D. 

1 .

2. 

-8-

E. 

Safeguards

The Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  the
the
Environment  Management  Plans,  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework, 
Resettlement  Plans,  the  Ethnic  Minority  Planning  Framework,  and  the  Ethnic
Minority  Development  Plans,  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in
writing, the  Borrower  shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or waive,  or permit to  be
assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived  the  aforementioned,  or  any  provision
thereof.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reportine and Evaluation

A. 

Semi-Annual  Reviews

The  Borrower  shall  review jointly  with  the  Bank  and  NPT,  no later  than  one (1)
month  after  the  transmittal  by  NPT  of  each  Project  Report  to  the  Bank,  such
Report,  and  thereafter  cause  NPT  to  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the
efficient  completion  of NPT's  implementation  of the Project  and the  achievement
of the  objectives  of the  Project,  based  on the  conclusions  and  recommendations
of such  Report and the  Borrower  and the Bank's views  on the  matter.

B. 

Midterm  Review

The Borrower shall:

(a) 

(b) 

carry  out  jointly  with  the  Bank  and  NPT,  no  later  than  twenty-four
(24)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  a  midterm  review  to  assess  the
status  of NPT's  implementation  of the  Project,  as  measured  against  the
performance  indicators  set  forth  in  the  POM.  Such  review  shall  include
an assessment  of the  following:  (i)  overall  progress  in  implementation  of
results  of  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities;
the  Project; 
(iii)  progress  on  the  implementation  of annual  work  plans  and  budgets;
(iv)  progress  on  procurement  and  disbursement;  (v)  progress  on  the
(vi)  implementation
safeguards  measures; 
implementation 
arrangements;  and  (vii) the  need  to  make  any  adjustments  to  the  Project
and reallocate  funds  to  improve  performance;

(ii) 

of 

cause NPT  to prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and the Bank,  at  least
in  scope  and  detail
three (3)  months  before  such  review,  a  report, 
satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  needed  to  undertake  the
review,  integrating the  results  of the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities
performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  on  the  progress
achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  during  the  period  preceding

-9-

the  date  of the  said  report  and  setting  out the  measures  recommended  to
ensure the  efficient carrying out of the Project and  the  achievement  of the
objectives  of the  Project during  the period following  such  date;  and

(c) 

to  in
review,  jointly  with  the  Bank  and  NPT,  the  report  referred 
subparagraph  (b)  of  this  Part  B  and  thereafter  cause  NPT  to  take  all
the  efficient  completion  of  NPT's
measures 
implementation  of the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  of
the  Project, based  on the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of said report
and  the Borrower  and the Bank's  views  on the  matter.

to  ensure 

required 

Financial Management,  Financial  Reports,  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  an  acceptable  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall have  its Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  (1) fiscal  year  of NPT.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be furnished  to  the  Bank
not later than six  (6)  months after the  end of such  period.

Section  HI. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works,  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works,  and  non-
consulting  services  required for the Project  and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan shall  be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II and  III of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as the  case  may be.

C. 

1 .

2. 

A. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

3. 

- 10-

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works,  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded  on the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

following 

table  specifies 

than
The 
International  Competitive  Bidding, which  may  be used  for goods,  non-consulting
services,  and  works.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under which  such  methods  may be  used:

the  methods  of  procurement,  other 

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to the  additional  procedures  set out in

Procurement  Method

the  Annex to this  Schedule

(b)  Shopping

(c)  Direct Contracting

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-Based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall specify  the circumstances  under which  such  methods  may  be used.

Procurement  Method

(a) Quality-Based  Selection

(b)  Selection  Based on the Consultants'  Qualifications

(c)  Single-Source  Selection

(d)  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(e)  Least-Cost  Selection

- 11 -

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement  Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those contracts  which  shall be  subject  to the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

- 12  -

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance:  (a)  the  Front-end  Fee  in
accordance  with  Section  2.07  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions;  and  (b)  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2 below.

The following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each Category.

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

498,750,000 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
100%

Category 

(1) Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services,
Training  and Workshops,
and  Incremental  Operating
Costs  for the Project
(2)  Front-end  Fee 

1,250,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement 
in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 

500,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  made prior to the  date  of this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date  is  December  31,  2019.

- 13  -

ANNEX  to SCHEDULE 2

National  Competitive  Bidding:  Additional Procedures

dated  November 

The  procedures  to  be  followed  for  the  procurement  of goods,  non-consulting  services,
and  works under contracts  awarded  on the basis  of National  Competitive  Bidding shall be
those  set  forth in:  (a)  Article 20  on Open  Bidding  of the  Borrower's  Law  on Procurement
the  Borrower's  Law
26 
No. 43/2013/QH13 
No. 38/2009/QH12  Amending  and  Supplementing  a  Number  of  Articles  of  Laws
Concerning  Capital  Construction  Investment  dated  June  19,  2009;  and  (c)  the Borrower's
Decree No.  63/2014/ND-CP  Guiding  Implementation  of the  Law  on the Procurement  and
Selection  of Construction  Contractors  under  the  Construction  Law  dated  June  26,  2014
October  15,  2009  (collectively,  "National  Procurement  Laws"),  subject to  the  provisions
of Section  I  and  Paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  the  following
provisions:

2013; 

(b) 

A  bidder shall  not have  a conflict  of interest.  Any  bidder  found to  have a  conflict
1. 
of  interest  shall  be  ineligible  for  award  of  a  contract.  The  provisions  on  conflict  of
interest  as  stated under  Section I of the  Procurement  Guidelines shall  apply.

Conflict  of Interest

Eligibility

The  eligibility  of bidders  shall  be  as  defined  under  Section  I of the  Procurement
2. 
Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder  shall  be  declared  ineligible  for
contracts  financed  by  the  Bank  for reasons  other  than  those  provided  in  Section  I  of the
Guidelines.  Foreign  bidders  shall  be  eligible  to  participate  in  bidding  under  the  same
conditions  as  national  bidders.  In particular,  no  domestic  preference  over foreign  bidders
shall  be  granted  to  national  bidders  in  bid  evaluation,  nor  shall  foreign  bidders  be asked
or required  to  form joint ventures  with  or be subcontractors  to  national bidders  in order  to
submit a bid.

Government-owned  enterprises  or  institutions  of  the  Borrower's  country  are
3. 
eligible  to  bid  in  the  Borrower's  country  only  if they  can  establish  that  they:  (i)  are
legally  and  financially  autonomous,  (ii)  operate  under  commercial  law,  and  (iii)  are  not
dependent  agencies  of the Borrower  or  Sub-Borrower.

Registration

Registration  shall  not  be  used  to  assess bidders'  qualifications.  A  foreign  bidder
4. 
shall  not be required  to  register  as  a  condition  for submitting  its bid and,  if determined  to
be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder,  shall  be  given  reasonable  opportunity  of
registering,  without any  let or hindrance.  Bidding shall  not be restricted  to  any  particular
class  of contractors,  and  non-classified  contractors  shall  also  be eligible  to  bid.

- 14  -

Advertising;  Time for Bid Preparation

5. 
The  complete  text of advertisement  shall  be published  in  a national  newspaper  of
wide  circulation  or in  the  official  gazette  provided  that  it  is  of wide  circulation,  or  on  a
widely  used  website  or  electronic  portal  with  free  national  and  international  access.  The
Borrower may  publish  a shorter version of the advertisement  text, including the  minimum
relevant  information,  in  the  national  press  provided  that  the  full  text  is  simultaneously
published  in  the  official  gazette  or  on a  widely used website  or  electronic  portal  with  free
national  and  international  access.  Notification  shall  be  given  to  prospective  bidders  in
sufficient  time to  enable them  to  obtain relevant  documents.

6. 
The time  allowed  for the  preparation  and submission  of bids shall not  be less than
thirty  (30)  days  from  the  date  of the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of availability  of the
bidding documents,  whichever  is  later.

Standard  Bidding  Documents

Qualification  Criteria

7. 

Standard  bidding documents  acceptable  to the Bank  shall be used.

Qualification  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding  documents,  and  all
8. 
criteria  so specified,  and  only such  specified  criteria,  shall be used to  determine  whether a
bidder  is  qualified.  Qualification  shall  be assessed  on a  pass  or fail basis  and merit points
shall  not be used.  Such  assessment  shall  only  take into  account  the  bidder's  capacity  and
resources  to  perform  the  contract,  specifically  its  experience  and  past  performance  on
similar contracts,  capabilities  with  respect to  personnel,  equipment,  and  construction  and
manufacturing 
financial  capacity.  The  evaluation  of  the  bidder's
qualifications  shall  be  conducted  separately  subsequent  to  the  technical  and  commercial
evaluation  of the bid.

facilities,  and 

Bid  Submission,  Bid Opening, and  Bid  Evaluation

in  the  bidding  documents.  Bids  shall  be  opened 

Bidders  may  submit bids,  at their  option, either  in  person or  by  courier  service or
9. 
by  mail,  as  required 
in  public,
immediately  after  the  deadline  for  submission  of bids,  regardless  of the  number  of bids
received.  Bids  received  after  the  deadline  for  bid  submission  shall  be  rejected  and
returned  to  the  bidders  unopened.  A  copy  of the  bid  opening  minutes  shall  be promptly
provided  to  all  bidders  who  submitted  bids,  and  to  the  Bank  with  respect  to  contracts
subject to  the Bank's prior review.

(a) 

Bidding  documents  shall  be  sold  to  anyone  who  is  willing  to  pay  the
required fee  of the bidding documents  which  shall not exceed the  costs of
printing,  reproduction,  and  delivery  at any  time  prior  to  the  deadline  for

- 15  -

bid  submission,  and  no  other  conditions  shall  be  imposed  on the  sale  of
the  bidding documents.

Evaluation  of bids  shall  be  made  in  strict  adherence  to  the  criteria that
shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding  documents  and  quantified  in
monetary  terms  for  evaluation  criteria  other than  price;  merit  points  shall
not be used  in bid  evaluation.

A  contract  shall  be  awarded,  within  the  period  of the  validity  of bids,  to
the  bidder  who  meets  the  appropriate  standards  of  capability  and
resources  and  whose  bid  has  been  determined  (i)  to  be  substantially
responsive 
to  the  bidding  documents  and  (ii)  to  offer  the  lowest
evaluated  cost. No negotiations  shall  be permitted.  A  bidder  shall neither
be  required  nor  permitted,  as  a  condition  for  award,  to  undertake
in  the  bidding  documents  or  otherwise  to
obligations  not  specified 
modify the  bid as originally submitted.

No  bid  shall  be  eliminated  from  detailed  evaluation  on  the  basis  of
minor, non-substantive  deviations.

The  comparison  of  all  bids  and  the  award  of contract  may  be  based  on
the  total  cost at destination  including  all taxes  and  duties.

No  bid shall  be rejected  on the basis  of a comparison with  the employer's
estimate  and budget ceiling  without the Bank's prior written agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Rejection  of All  Bids and Re-bidding

Rejection  of all bids  is justified when  there  is  lack  of effective  competition,  or all
10. 
bids  are  not  substantially  responsive,  or  no  bidder  meets  the  specified  qualification
criteria,  or the  bid  price  of the  lowest  evaluated  winning  bid  is  substantially  higher  than
the  Borrower's  updated  estimated  cost or available  budget. Lack  of competition  shall  not
be  determined  solely  on  the  basis  of the  number  of bidders.  Even  when  only  one  bid  is
submitted,  the  bidding  process  may  be  considered  valid,  if the  bid  was  satisfactorily
advertised,  the  qualification  criteria were  not unduly  restrictive,  and prices  are reasonable
in  comparison  to  market  values.  All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  or  new  bids  solicited
without  the Bank's prior written  agreement.

Complaints by  Bidders and  Handling  of Complaints

11. 
The  Borrower  shall  implement  an  effective  and  independent  protest  mechanism
allowing  bidders  to  protest  and  have  their  protests  handled  in  a  timely  manner.  An
independent  protest  mechanism  shall  provide  for  the  review  of  complaints  by  an
independent  entity  that  is  not  involved  in  any  aspect  of  the  underlying  procurement
process (e.g.,  bid evaluation,  contract approval,  etc.).

- 16  -

Fraud and Corruption

The  provisions  on  fraud  and  corruption  as  stated  under  Section  I  of  the
12. 
Procurement  Guidelines  shall  apply.  Each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  out
of the  proceeds  of the  Financing  shall  include  provisions  on  matters  pertaining  to  fraud
and  corruption  as  defined  in the  Guidelines.  The  Bank will sanction  a  firm  or  individual,
at  any  time,  in  accordance  with  prevailing  Bank  sanctions  procedures,  including  by
publicly  declaring  such  firm  or  individual  ineligible,  either  indefinitely  or  for  a  stated
period  of time:  (i) to  be  awarded  a  Bank-financed  contract;  and  (ii)  to  be  a  nominated
sub-contractor,  consultant,  supplier,  or  service  provider  of  an  otherwise  eligible  firm
being awarded  an Bank-financed  contract.

Right to  Inspect / Audit

Each  bidding  document  and contract  financed  from the  proceeds  of the  Financing
13. 
shall  include  a  provision  requiring  bidders,  suppliers,  contractors,  and  subcontractors  to
permit the  Bank,  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating to  the  bid submission  and
performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and  records  audited  by  auditors
appointed  by  the  Bank.  Acts  intended  to  materially  impede  the  exercise  of the  Bank's
inspection  and  audit  rights  provided  for  in  the  Guidelines  constitute  an  obstructive
practice  as defined  in the  Guidelines.

License

Foreign  contractors  shall  be  given  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  apply  for  and

14. 
obtain  a work  license,  which shall not be arbitrarily  withheld.

Publication  of the Award  of Contract

to 

Within 

two  weeks  of  receiving 

the  Bank's  no  objection 

the  award
15. 
recommendation  for  contracts  subject  to  the  Bank's  prior  review,  and  within  two  weeks
of the  Borrower's  award  decision  for  contracts  subject  to  the  Bank's  post  review,  the
Borrower  shall  publish  the  following  information  on  contract  award  in  a  national
newspaper  of wide  circulation  and/or  in  the  official  gazette  provided  that  it  is  of  wide
circulation,  or  on  a  widely  used  website  or  electronic  portal  with  free  national  and
international  access:  (a)  the name  of each  bidder  which  submitted  a  bid;  (b)  bid  prices  as
read  out at bid  opening;  (c)  evaluated  prices  of each  bid that was evaluated;  (d)  the names
of bidders  whose bids  were either rejected  as  non-responsive  or not meeting  qualification
criteria,  or  not  evaluated,  with  the  reasons  thereof;  and  (e)  the  name  of  the  winning
bidder,  the  final  total  contract  price,  as  well  as  the  duration  and  summary  scope  of the
contract.

Contract Modifications

- 17  -

With  respect  to  contracts  subject  to  the  Bank's prior  review,  the  Borrower  shall
16. 
(a)  a  material  extension  of  the
obtain  the  Bank's  no  objection  before  agreeing  to: 
stipulated  time  for  performance  of  a  contract;  (b)  any  substantial  modification  of the
scope  of services  or other  significant  changes  to the  terms  and  conditions  of the  contract;
(c)  any  variation  order  or amendment  (except  in  cases  of extreme  urgency)  which,  singly
or  combined  with  all  variation  orders  or  amendments  previously  issued,  increases  the
original  contract  amount  by  more than  15  percent;  or (d)  the  proposed  termination  of the
contract.  A  copy of all  contract  amendments  shall  be provided  to  the Bank.

- 18-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying:  (a)  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of
the  first Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment Date,  such  repayable  amount  to be  adjusted, as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each April  15  and  October  15
Beginning  October  15,  2024 
through  October  15,  2039

On April  15,  2040 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

3.13%

2.97%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal Payment  Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original Installment  Share  specified  in the  table  in paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted, as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

- 19  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn within  two  calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on or after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

4. 

5. 

- 20  -

APPENDIX

Section I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Central  Project  Management  Board"  or  "CPMB"  means  NPT's  entity
responsible  for the  management  of power  transmission  project  activities,  mainly
in the central  part of the Borrower's  territory,  or any successor thereto.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Department  of  Compensation"  means  the  department  of  each  of  the  Project
Management  Boards  responsible  for  the  management  of  environmental  and
social  safeguards  in  relation  to  the respective  Board's  activities,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Department  of Natural  Resources  and  Environment"  or  "DONRE"  means  the
Borrower's  provincial-level  entity,  responsible  for  the  management  of  natural
the  respective  Provincial  People's
resources  and  the  environment  within 
Committee,  or any  successor  thereto.

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  implementation  of the
Project,  has  experienced  or would  experience  direct economic  and  social impacts
caused  by:  (a)  the  involuntary taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or
means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  person  must  move  to  another  location;
or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  person;
and  "Displaced  Persons"  means,  collectively,  all such  persons.

"Environment  Management  Plans"  or  "EMPs"  means  NPT's  plans,  to  be  agreed
with  the  Bank  and  setting  out  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and
institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training,  to  eliminate
any  adverse  environmental  impacts  of  activities  to  be  implemented  under  a
Subproject,  offset  them,  or reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or enhance  positive
impacts,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Environmental  and  Social

- 21  -

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

Management  Framework,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with
the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or
schedules  to  such  plans.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
framework  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  adopted  by  MOIT  pursuant  to  its  Decision
Number  5838/QD-BCT  dated  June  27,  2014,  which  sets  forth  the  environmental
protection  measures  in  respect of the  Project,  including the  preparation  of EMPs
during  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  and  administrative  and  monitoring
arrangements  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  said  framework,  as  said  ESMF
may  be  revised  from  time to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,
and  such term  includes any  annexes  or schedules  to  such  framework.

"Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plans"  or  "EMDPs"  means  NPT's  plans,  to  be
agreed  with  the  Bank  and  setting  out  the  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,
and  institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training,  that
have  been  identified  by NPT to  address  any  adverse  effects  on ethnic  minorities
associated  with,  and  ensure  culturally  appropriate  social  and  economic  benefits
for  Ethnic  Minorities  under,  a  Subproject,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the  Ethnic  Minority  Planning  Framework,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from
time to  time with  the  prior written agreement  of the  Bank, and  such  term  includes
any  annexes or  schedules  to  such  plans.

"Ethnic  Minority  Planning  Framework"  or  "EMPF"  means  the  framework
adopted  by  MOIT  pursuant  to  Decision  Number  5838/QD-BCT  dated  June  27,
2014,  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  setting  out  the  mitigation,  enhancement,
including  capacity  building  through
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures, 
training,  that  have  been  identified  by  NPT  to  ensure  meaningful  consultation
with,  and  the  informed  participation  of, ethnic  minorities  within  the  Project  area
who  are  affected  by  the  Project,  and  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the
preparation  of Ethnic  Minority  Development  Plans,  as the  same may  be  modified
from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term
includes any annexes or schedules  to  such  framework.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

incurred  by 

the  Borrower 

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  operating  costs  under  the
for  purposes  of  Project  management,
Project 
implementation,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,  including  office  supplies  and
and
consumables,  utilities,  bank  charges, 
communication  campaigns,  mass  media  and  printing  services,  vehicle  rental,
rental,  building  and
operation,  maintenance,  and 
equipment maintenance,  travel,  lodging,  and  subsistence  allowances,  and  salaries

insurance,  office  space 

communications, 

information 

- 22  -

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

of contractual  and  temporary  staff, but excluding  salary  and  salary  supplements
of staff of the Borrower's  civil  service ("c6ng  chftrc"  and  "vien  chirc").

"kV" means kilovolt, or one thousand  (1,000)  volts, a  standard unit  of measure  of
electric  voltage.

"Ministry  of  Natural  Resources  and  Environment"  or  "MONRE"  means  the
Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for  the  management  of  natural  resources  and
environment, or any  successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Finance"  or  "MOF"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for
the management  of finance, or any  successor thereto.

"Ministry  of  Industry  and  Trade"  or  "MOIT"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry
responsible  for the management  of industry  and trade, or any successor thereto.

"National  Power  Transmission  Corporation"  or  "NPT" means  EVN's  wholly-
owned  subsidiary,  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  EVN's  Decision
Numbers  223/QD-EVN  dated  April  11,  2008  and  324/QD-EVN  dated  May  14,
2012,  and  NPT's  charter,  as  adopted  pursuant  to  the  latter  Decision,  responsible
for power transmission  activities,  or any  successor  thereto.

"Northern  Project  Management  Board"  or  "NPBM"  means  NPT's  entity
responsible  for the  management  of power transmission  project  activities,  mainly
in the  northern part of the Borrower's territory,  or any  successor thereto.

"NPT's  Legislation"  means  EVN's  Decision  Numbers  223/QD-EVN  dated  April
11,  2008  and  324/QD-EVN  dated  May  14,  2012,  and  NPT's  charter,  as  adopted
pursuant  to  the  latter  Decision;  and  such  term  includes  any  other  decisions,  or
reorganization,
any 
restructuring,  and  operations of NPT  as  of the  date of this Agreement.

regulations  governing 

the  organization, 

laws 

and 

"Prime  Minister"  means the Prime Minister of the  Socialist  Republic  of Vietnam,
the  executive  branch  of  the  Borrower's
the  highest  ranking  official 
government.

in 

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the document  adopted  by  MOIT  pursuant  to
to  in
Decision  Number  5439/QD-BCT  dated  June  17,  2014,  and  referred 
paragraph  1(c)  of  Section  I.B  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,  agreed  with  the
Bank  and  setting  out  implementation,  organizational,  administrative,  monitoring
and  evaluation,  environmental  and  social  monitoring  and  mitigation,  financial
management,  disbursement,  and  procurement  arrangements  for  purposes  of
Project  implementation,  as the  same  may be  amended  from time  to  time  with the
prior  written  agreement  of  the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or
schedules  to such  manual.

- 23  -

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods, Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  March  12,  2014  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  same  shall be
updated  from time  to time  in accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Management  Boards"  or  "PMBs"  means,  collectively,  the  NPMB,
CPMB,  and  SPMB,  responsible  for the  management  of projects  in  the  respective
parts of the Borrower's  territory,  or any  successors thereto.

"Resettlement  Plans"  or  "RPs"  means  NPT's  plans,  to  be  agreed  with  the  Bank
and  setting  out  the  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional
measures,  including capacity building through training, to  carry  out acquisition  of
land and  other  assets,  compensation,  resettlement,  and rehabilitation  of Displaced
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Persons  under  a  Subproject, 
Resettlement  Policy Framework,  as the  same  may  be  modified  from  time to  time
with  the prior  written agreement  of the  Bank, and  such  term includes  any annexes
or schedules to such  plans.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  framework,  approved  by
the  Prime  Minister  pursuant  to  Decision  Number  1081/QD-TTg  dated  July  7,
2014,  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  setting  out  the  mitigation,  enhancement,
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through
training,  to  carry  out  acquisition  of  land  and  other  assets,  compensation,
resettlement,  and  rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons,  and  guidelines  and
procedures  for  the  preparation  of  Resettlement  Plans,  under  the  Project,  as  the
same  may  be  modified  from  time to  time  with  the prior  written  agreement  of the
Bank,  and  such term  includes any  annexes  or schedules  to  such  framework.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework, the  Environment Management  Plans,  the  Resettlement
Policy  Framework,  the  Resettlement  Plans,  the  Ethnic  Minority  Planning
Framework,  and  the  Ethnic Minority  Development  Plans

"Southern  Project  Management  Board"  or  "SPMB"  means  NPT's  entity
responsible  for the  management  of power  transmission  project  activities,  mainly
in the southern  part of the Borrower's  territory,  or any  successor thereto.

"Subproject"  means  one  (1) or more contract packages  under Parts  1 and  2 of the
Project, grouped  together for  procurement  purposes.

- 24  -

31. 

32. 

33. 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the Loan  available to the NPT.

"Training  and  Workshops"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of expenditure  incurred
by  the  Borrower,  based  on  annual work  plans  and  terms  of reference  acceptable
to  the  Bank,  in  facilitating  and  conducting  domestic  and  overseas  training  and
workshop  activities  of  the  Project,  including  costs  of  training  or  workshop
materials;  honoraria;  interpretation  and  translation;  equipment  and  venue  rental;
lunches; and  per diem, accommodation,  and  transportation  for those attending  the
training  or workshop;  but excluding  salary  and  salary  supplements  of Borrower's
civil servants  ("c6ng chrc"  and "vi6n  chrc").

"Vietnam  Electricity"  or "EVN" means  the Borrower's  wholly-owned  enterprise,
established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Prime  Minister's  Decision  No.
975/2010/QD-TTg  dated  June  25,  2010,  and  EVN's  charter,  as  adopted  under
said  Decision,  responsible  for  the  development,  operation,  and  maintenance,
direct  or indirect, of facilities  for the  generation, transmission,  and  distribution of
electricity  throughout the Borrower's  territory,  or any successor  thereto.

