OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8371  -TR

Loan Agreement

(Renewable  Energy Integration  Project)

TORKIYE  ELEKTRIK ILETIM A.$.

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

ULy 

40 

,2014

LOAN  NUMBER  8371  -TR

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

4 0 
, 2014,  between  TORKYE  ELEKTRIK
ILETIM  A.$.  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby agree  as  follows:

3U  L- 

WHEREAS:  (A)  Republic  of  Turkey  ("Guarantor")  and  the  Borrower,  having  been
satisfied  as to the feasibility  and  priority of the  Project described  in Schedule  I to this Agreement,
have requested  the Bank  to assist  in the financing  of the Project;

(B) 

by  an  agreement  ("Guarantee  Agreement")  of  even  date  herewith  between  the
Guarantor  and  the Bank,  the  Guarantor  has  agreed  to  guarantee  the  Loan  Payment  obligations  of
the Borrower  in respect  of the  Loan;  and

(C) 

by  an  agreement  of  even  date  herewith  ("CTF  Loan  Agreement"),  the  Bank,
acting  as  the  implementing  agency  of the  Clean  Technology  Fund  ("CTF") has  agreed  to make  a
loan  ("CTF Loan")  to  the  Borrower  in  the amount of fifty  million  Dollars  ($50,000,000)  to assist
in  financing  of Parts  I and  2 the  Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  CTF Loan
Agreement  and  the  Guarantor  has  agreed  to  guarantee  the  Loan  Payment  obligations  of  the
Borrower  under  the  CTF  Loan  as  set  forth  in  the  CTF  Guarantee  Agreement  of  even  date
herewith;  and

WHEREAS  the Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter alia, of the foregoing,  to  extend  the

Loan to the  Borrower upon  the  terms and  conditions  set forth  in this Agreement;

The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

2.01. 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN
The Bank  agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  and  seventeen  million  six  hundred
thousand  Euros  (EUR  217,600,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of  this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

2.03. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee  not  later  than
sixty (60) days after  the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the Reference  Rate for the Loan Currency  plus the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article 
IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then
the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section
3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment  Dates  are  April  15 and October  15  in  each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule set  forth  in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis applicable  to: (A)  all  or  any portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based on  a  Variable  Spread to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by the establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate Cap  or  Interest Rate  Collar on  the  Variable  Rate or the Reference
Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,,and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

-2-

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall carry  out the  Project  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower,  the  Guarantor,  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely,  the  CTF
Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all  conditions  precedent  to  its
effectiveness  or to  the  right  of the  Borrower  to make  withdrawals  under  it  (other than  the
effectiveness  of this Agreement)  have  been  fulfilled  or waived  by  the  Bank.
The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of
this Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its  General  Manager.

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

4.01. 

4.02. 

5.01. 

5.02. 

TUrkiye Elektrik  letim A.$.
Genel MOdidrhigO
Nasuh  Akar Mahallesi
Turkocagi  Caddesi
No:  12 PK 06100  Balgat/Cankaya
Ankara, Turkey

Facsimile:
(312)  222-8160

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

Telex: 
248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at  Ankara,  Republic  of Turkey,  as of the  day and  year  first  aboue  written.

TORKIYE  ELEKTRiK  ILETIM  A.$.

Authorized Representative

Name:  gtyA 

\Lb2-

Title:  -6d ,te  rA 

a 

LA  g

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

Ob0A'# 

('#+L..

Title: 

1a  c4 

okTt 

rCt.

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE  I

Project  Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to assist  the  Republic  of Turkey  in meeting  its  increased
power  demand  by  strengthening  the  transmission  system  and  facilitating  large-scale  renewable
energy  generation.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part  1. Development  of transmission  infrastructure

Construction  and  equipping  of highly  digitalized  substations,  namely  Can  Basin 380  kV,
Izmir  Basin  380 kV,  and  Vize Basin  380 kV  substations and  any other substations agreed  with  the
Bank,  together  with  associated  grid  connection  structures  for  evacuation  of  wind  power  in  the
Selected  Provinces.

Part 2.  Smart-grid  investments

Carry out  investments  that  enable  the  Borrower  to  monitor  the  transmission  grid  network

status  in  real-time  and  to operate  the entire network  reliably  and  securely,  including:

Upgrading  the  hardware  and  software  of  the  existing  Supervisory  Control  and  Data
Acquisition  ("SCADA")  system  at  the  National  Control  Center,  the  Emergency  National
Control  Center  and  nine  (9)  Regional  Control  Centers  and  addition  of  a  Renewable
Energy  Resource  ("RER")  Operator  Desk on the  SCADA  system.

Installation  of  Remote  Terminal  Units  ("RTU")  in  substations  and  power  plants  to
facilitate  acquisition  of real-time  transmission  network  data.

Installation  of digital  protection  relays  in  the  power  grid to  accelerate  fault  clearing  and
minimize  network  disturbances  and outage  area.

Installation  of shunt reactors  in  the  bulk-transmission  network  to  control  load  flow  and  to
secure  appropriate  system  voltage.

Part 3.  Lapseki  2-Sutluce 2 submarine  power cable

Construction  of a  second  double-circuit  submarine  cable  across the  Dardanelles  Strait.

Part  4.  Strengthening  of transmission  networks

Carry  out  investments  to  strengthen  the  transmission  networks,  including:

Construction  of an underground  cable to  connect  the Yeni  Ambarli  substation  to  the Yeni
Bosna  substation.

Construction  of four (4)  380/154/33  kV  substations  and  related  facilities  in  the  province
of Istanbul,  Antalya  and  Urgup.

-5-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Construction  of  four  (4)  154/33  kV  substations  and  related  facilities  in  the  provinces
Istanbul  and  Antalya.

Construction  of four  (4)  154  kV  underground  cables  in  the  provinces  of  Istanbul  and
Izmir.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Institutional  Arrangements

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  until  the  completion  of  the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall  maintain  the  Project  Coordination  Unit  within  its  Research,  Planning  and
Coordination  Department  with 
to  oversee  and  coordinate  Project
implementation  and  with  necessary  and  appropriate  staffing  and  budgetary  resources
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

responsibility 

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

C. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with 
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

the

The  Borrower  shall 
implement  the  Environmental  Review  Framework  Document
("ERFD"),  and  before  the  Borrower  commences  any  work  or  installation  under  the
Project  or  the  construction  (regardless  of  financing  source)  of  access  roads  from  the
substations under  Part  I of the  Project  to the  existing  main  roads  and  energy transmission
lines from  the  substations  under  Part  I  of the  Project  to  the  national  grid,  the  Borrower
shall:

impacts  from  the  proposed  work, 

screen  for 
installation  and  construction,
including  impacts  on  the  environment,  physical  cultural  resources,  and  natural
habitats,  all  in  accordance  with  the  principles  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the
ERFD;

prepare  an  environment  management  plan  (including  management  of impact  on
environment,  physical  cultural  resources,  and  natural  habitat,  as the  case  may  be)
for  said  work,  installation  or  construction  in accordance  with  the  principles  and
procedures  set  forth  in the  ERFD;

thereafter,  provide said  plan  to the  Bank for review;  and

implement  such  plan  as  shall  have  been  accepted  by  the  Bank  as  being
satisfactory, as  well as  implement  the  Lapseki  2-Sutluce 2  EMP.

2. 

The  Borrower shall:

when  carrying  out  the  Project  and  related  activities, 
the
provisions  of Bank's Operation  Policy  4.12,  the  Borrower  shall take all  necessary
actions to  minimize, to  the extent  possible, any  involuntary  taking of land; and

in  accordance  with 

-7-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

this  purpose,  whenever  Project  activities 

for 
(including  construction  of
substations  under  Part  I of the Project  and  the  interface  points  for  the  Lapseki  2-
Sutluce  2  submarine  power  cable  under  Part  3 of the  Project)  or  construction  by
the  Borrower  (regardless  of  financing  source)  of  access 
roads  from  the
substations  under  Part  I of the  Project  to  the  existing main  roads  and  of the  first
energy transmission  lines  from  the  substations  under  Part  I of the  Project  to  the
national  grid  would  give  rise  to  Project  Affected  Persons,  before  starting  any
work,  installation  or construction,  the Borrower shall:

apply the  LAPF and  prepare,  and  cause  to  be  prepared,  a  land  acquisition
action  plan  in  accordance  with  the principles  and  procedures  set  forth  in
the  LAPF;

thereafter,  provide  said plan  to the Bank  for review;  and

implement  such  land  acquisition  action  plan  (including  disclosure  of the
plan)  as shall have  been accepted  by  the Bank as being  satisfactory.

3. 

(a) 

With  respect to  any transmission  line  to be constructed  by  a private  developer  for
connection  of a  wind  power  project  to any of the  substations to  be constructed  or
constructed  under  Part  I  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  during  Project
implementation:

make  the  following  information  available  in  a  timely  and  documented
manner  at  a  place  accessible  to  land  owners  whose  land  (which  term
includes  any  interest  in  land,  such  as  an  easement)  may  be  affected  by
said  transmission  line:  (A)  that  land  owners  may  negotiate  and  agree
with  said  private  developer  for  use  of the  affected  land  by  the  private
developer  or  decline  such  offer  for  use,  in which  event  the  land  may  be
acquired  by the Borrower  and  the  Borrower shall  apply  the provisions  of
the  LAPF;  (B)  a  copy  of  the  LAPF, 
together  with  a  simplified
information  package 
the  processes,  procedures  and
compensation  available  under  the  LAPF;  and  (C) 
the  mechanism
(including  contact  information)  for  land  owners  to  seek  clarification  on
any  of the foregoing;

that  sets  out 

apply  the  LAPF  in  the  event  that  the  Borrower  acquires  the  land  for  use
by the private  developer:  (A) where  the land  owner  has declined  the  offer
of the  private  developer  or;  (R)  where  the  private developer  requests  the
Borrower 
to  acquire 
for  purposes  of  constructing  said
transmission  line;  and

land 

the 

carry  out  spot  checks  on  transmission 
lines  constructed  by  private
developers  and  the  spot  checks  shall:  (A)  determine  the  terms  and
conditions  of the  agreement  between  the  private  developer  and  the  land
owner  for  use  of the  affected  land  by  the  private  developer;  and  (B)
report  on  and  document  any  unresolved  claims  by  any  land  owner  and
the  status  of the claim.

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(b) 

During Project  implementation,  the  Borrower  shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

the  Bank  when  considering 

consult  with 
for
connection  to  any  of the  substations  to  be  constructed  or  constructed
under  Part  I  of  the  Project  and  finalize  the  routing  studies  for  the
transmission  lines  by not  interfering with  the  No  Go  Places  defined  in the
ESDD  report;  and

transmission 

lines 

furnish  to  the  Bank  the  list  (including  site  locations  and  maps)  of wind
power  projects  other  than  the  Planned  WPPs  that  meet  the  criteria  for
connection  to any  of the substations  to be  constructed  under  Part  I of the
Project  and  which  list  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  when  the  Borrower
provides  such  list  to the  Electricity  Market Regulatory  Agency  during the
pre-licensing  stage.

4. 

The Borrower shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

ensure  that  the  ERFD,  LAPF,  the  Lapseki  2-Sutluce  2  EMP,  EMPs  and  LAAPs
and  any  provision 
thereof,  shall  not  be  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
terminated  or  waived  or  permitted  to  be  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
terminated  or waived,  except  with  the  prior written  consent of the  Bank;
maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  them  to  monitor  and
evaluate, 
the
implementation  of any  of the  ERFD,  LAPF,  the Lapseki 2-Sutluce  2 EMP,EMPs,
and  LAAPs  and  the  achievement  of the  objectives  of said  frameworks  and  plans;
and

in  accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable 

the  Bank, 

to 

include  in  the  Project  Report,  which 
paragraph  I  of  this  Schedule, 
activities  with  respect to  the plans  referred  to in  sub-paragraph  (a)  above.
Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

is  to  be  prepared  under  Section  IIA
the  results  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation

Section II. 

Project Reports

A. 

1 .

B. 

I1. 

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the
period  of one  quarter,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)
days  after the end of the  period covered  by such  report.
Financial  Management,  Financial  Reports  and  Audits
The Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause  to  be maintained  a financial  management  system  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09 of the General  Conditions.

-9-

2. 

Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Part  A of this Section,  the  Borrower shall  prepare
and  furnish  to  the Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the  end  of each  calendar
quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form
and substance  satisfactory to  the  Bank.

3. 

The  Borrower shall  have:

the  Financial  Statements  (for  the  Project  and  as  defined 

in  the  General
(a) 
Conditions)  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General
Conditions.  Each  such  audit of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period of one  (1)
fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall
be furnished  to the Bank not later than  six (6)  months  after the end  of such  period;  and

(b) 
its  entity  financial  statements  audited  in  accordance  with  standards  set  out  in  of
Section  5.09(b)  of the General  Conditions.  Each audit of such  entity  financial  statements
shall  cover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year of the Borrower  and  be furnished  to the Bank
not later than eight (8)  months  after the  end  of such period.

Section U1. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

Goods and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods (including  supply  and  installation)  and
non-consulting  services  required  for the Project and  to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of
the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with the requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the corresponding  method described  in Sections  II and  III of the Procurement  Guidelines.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided 
in  paragraph  2
below,  goods  (including  supply  and  installation)  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be
procured  under contracts  awarded on  the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
The
following  method,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in  the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Direct Contracting;  and (b) Shopping.

C. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement  Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be subject to  Post  Review  by the Bank.

- 10 -

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

I. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article  II of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to 
the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006, as  revised  from  time to  time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set  forth  in  the table  in paragraph  2  below.

the  Borrower  (including 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the amounts  of
the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be  financed  for Eligible
Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  Euro) 

41,700.000 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed
(exclusive of Value  Added
Tax)

50%  until  the  CTF  Loan  is
fully  disbursed,  after  which
100%  to be financed

175,900,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods  (including  supply 
and 
installation)  and  non- 
consulting  services  for  Parts 
I and  2  of the Project

(2)  Goods  (including  supply 
and 
installation)  and  non-
consulting  services  for  Parts
3 and 4  of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 

1(40,__(_

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

I. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A of this Section, no  withdrawal  shall be  made:
(a) 

from  the Loan  Account until  the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of the  Front-
end  Fee;  or

(b) 

for  payments  made  prior to  the date  of this Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals
up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  EUR  40,000,000  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  March  20,  2014,  for  Eligible
Expenditures  under Categories  (1) and (2).

2. 

The  Closing  Date  is June  30, 2019.

-1l-

Section  V. 

Other  Undertakings

1I 

Except as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, the  Borrower shall:
(a) 

(i) 

produce,  for  each  of  its  Fiscal  Years,  funds 
from  internal  sources
equivalent  to  not  less  than  35%  for  the  Fiscal  Year  2015  and  in  each
succeeding  Fiscal  Year of the  Borrower's  capital  expenditures  during  the
Fiscal  Year concerned;

(ii) 

(iii) 

maintain,  beginning  with  the Fiscal  Year  2015,  a  ratio of current assets  to
current  liabilities  of not  less than  1.0;  and

ensure  that  the  Borrower's  net  revenues  shall  be  at  least  1.5  times  in
2015  and,  each  succeeding  Fiscal  Year,  the  estimated  maximum  debt
service requirements  of the Borrower  for any such  Fiscal  Year on  all debt
of the Borrower.

(b) 

If any fiscal  projections  show  that the Borrower would  not  meet the requirements
set  forth  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph  I for  the  Borrower's  Fiscal  Years
covered  by  such  review,  the  Borrower shall  promptly  take  all measures  necessary
on  its  part  in order to  meet  such  requirements.

(c) 

For the purposes  of this  paragraph  1:

(i) 

The term  "funds  from  internal  sources"  means  the  difference  between:
(A) 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to  operations,
customer  deposits  and  customer  contributions 
in  aid  of
construction,  net  non-operating  income  and  any  reduction  in
working capital  other than  cash;  and

(B) 

to  operations, 

the  sum  of  all  expenses 
related 
including
administration,  license  fees,  adequate  maintenance  and  taxes  and
payments  in  lieu  of taxes  (excluding  provision  for  depreciation
and  other  non-cash  operating  charges  and  income  taxes),  debt
service  requirements,  all  cash  dividends  and  other  cash  outflows
other  than capital  expenditures,  increase  in  working  capital  other
than  cash.

(ii) 

The term  "net  non-operating  income"  means the  difference  between:
(A) 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to  operations;
and

(B) 

expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes,  incurred
in  the  generation  of revenues  in  (A) above.

- 12  -

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

The term  "working  capital  other than  cash"  means  the difference  between
current  assets,  excluding  cash,  and  current  liabilities  at  the  end  of each
Fiscal Year.

The term  "current  assets  excluding cash"  means  all assets  other than  cash
which  could  in  the  ordinary  course  of business  be  converted  into  cash
within  twelve  (12)  months,  including  accounts  receivable,  marketable
securities, 
to
operating expenses  within the next  Fiscal Year.

inventories  and  prepaid  expenses  properly  chargeable 

The term  "current  liabilities"  means  all  liabilities  which  will  become  due
and  payable  or  could  under  circumstances  then  existing  be  called  for
payment  within 
including  accounts  payable,
customer  advances,  debt  service  requirements,  taxes  and  payments  in
lieu  of taxes,  and  dividends.

(12)  months, 

twelve 

The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate  amount  of
repayments  (including  sinking fund  payments,  if any) of, and  interest  and
other charges  on, debt.

The  term  "capital  expenditures"  means  all  expenditures  incurred  on
account  of fixed  assets, including  interest  charged  to construction,  related
to  operations,  averaged  over  a  three  (3)  year  period  covering  the  year
concerned  and the year  preceding  and  the year  succeeding  such  year.

(viii)  The  term  "current  assets"  means  cash,  all  assets  which  could  in  the
ordinary  course  of business  be  converted  into  cash  within  twelve  (12)
months,  including accounts  receivable,  marketable  securities,  inventories
and  prepaid  expenses  properly  chargeable  to  operating  expenses  within
the next Fiscal Year.

(ix) 

The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the Borrower  maturing by  its
terms  more than one  year  after the  date on which  it  is  originally incurred.

(x) 

The  term  "net  revenues"  means  the  difference  between:

(A) 

(B) 

the  sum  of revenues  from  all  sources  related  to  operations  and
net non-operating  income;  and

the  sum  of all  expenses  related  to  operations,  including 
license
fees,  administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and  payments
in  lieu  of taxes,  but  excluding  provision  for depreciation,  other
non-cash  operating  charges  and  interest  and  other  charges  on
debt.

(xi) 

Whenever  for  the  purposes  of this  paragraph  I  it  shall  be  necessary  to
value,  in  terms  of the  currency  of the  Borrower, debt  payable  in  another
currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of the  prevailing

- 13  -

lawful  rate  of exchange  at  which  such  other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of
such valuation,  obtainable  for the  purposes  of servicing  such  debt, or,  in
the  absence  of such  rate,  on  the basis  of a  rate  of exchange  acceptable  to
the Bank.

-14-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying: 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by
(b) the  Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts  referred to  in  paragraph 4  of this  Schedule,
to  which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each  April  15  and October  15

Beginning  October  15,  2019
through  October  15,  2031 

On  April  15,  2032 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

3.85%

3.75%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  withdrawn  as  of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling after  the date of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by  the Bank  by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is  the original  Installment  Share specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date, such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the purposes  solely of calculating  the principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of

- 15  -

withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with  the second  Principal  Payment Date  following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such  billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date occurring  during the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion by  either:  (i) the  exchange  rate that reflects  the amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines 
in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency,  so  as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

- 16  -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud and  Corruption  in  Projects Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants",
dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"CTF Loan"  means  a  loan  in  the  amount  of fifty  million  Dollars  ($50,000,000)  to  be
made  to the Borrower  pursuant to the  CTF Loan  Agreement  defined  below.

"CTF Loan  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  of even  date with  this  Agreement  between
the Borrower  and  the  Bank,  acting  as  the  implementing  agency  of  the  Clean  Technology
Fund,  pursuant  to  which  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  make  a  loan  to  the  Borrower  in  the
amount  of fifty  million  Dollars  ($50,000,000)  to  assist  in  financing  of Parts  I and  2  the
Project  on the terms and  conditions  set forth  in  said  agreement.

"ERFD"  means  the  Environmental  Review  Framework  Document  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  and  disclosed  on  the  Borrower's  website  on  March  4,  2014,  and  the  Bank's
Infoshop  on  March  5,  2014, which  framework  sets out, inter alia policies  and  procedures
for:  the  preliminary  screening  (including 
impact  on  physical  cultural  resources  and
natural  habitat  and  exclusion  of  investments  classified  as  Category  A)  of  proposed
Project activities;  preparation  of environmental  assessment  and  environment  management
plans  therefor;  consultation  and  disclosure  and  monitoring  and  reporting  during  the
implementation  of  the  Project,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time
with the prior concurrence  of the Bank.

"EMP"  means  a  site-specific  environmental  management  plan  prepared  for  specific
investment  activities  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with the  requirements  set  out  in the
ERFD  and  accepted  by the  Bank  as being  satisfactory;  and  "EMPs"  means,  collectively,
all  such  EMPs.

"ESDD  Report"  means  the  Environmental  and  Social  Due  Diligence  Report  dated
September  2013,  which  sets  out 
the
environmental  and  social  due  diligence  conducted  on  the  substations  to  be  constructed
under  Component  I  and  its  associated  facilities  (access  roads  and  electric  transmission
lines)  as well  as the Planned  WPPs,  and the results of the due diligence.

the  approach  and  methodology  used 

for 

"Fiscal  Year"  means  the fiscal  year  of the  Borrower  starting  on  January  I and  ending on
December 31  of each  year.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans", dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction  and

- 17-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"LAAP"  means  a  site-specific  land  acquisition  action  plan  prepared  for  specific
investment  activities  under the  Project  in  accordance with  the requirements  set out  in the
LAPF  and  accepted  by  the  Bank  as  being  satisfactory;  and  "LAAPs"  mean,  collectively,
all such  LAAPs.

"LAPF"  means  the  Land  Acquisition  Policy  Framework,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and
disclosed  on  the  Borrower's  website  on  March  19,  2014,  and  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on
March  19,  2014,  which  sets  out  the  policies  and  procedures  for  land  acquisition,
resettlement,  compensation  and  rehabilitation  of Project  Affected  Persons,  preparation  of
resettlement  action  plans  therefor,  consultation,  disclosure,  grievance  redress,  and
monitoring  and  reporting  during  Project  implementation,  as  said  framework  may  be
revised  from time to  time with the prior agreement  of the  Bank.

"Lapseki  2-Sutluce  2  EMP"  means  the  Environmental  Management  Plan  for  380  kv
Lapseki  2-Sutluce  2  Submarine  Cable  dated  September  2013,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank
and  disclosed  locally on October  13,  2013  and  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  November  13,
2013.

"Planned  WPPs"  means  collectively,  the  following  planned  wind  power  projects,  being
developed  by  the private  sector and  which  will  be  connected  to the  respective  substations
to  be  constructed  under Part  I of the  Project:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

For Canakkale  substation:  Ucpinar, Kocalar and  Koru  wind power  projects.

For Vize  Substation:  Evrencik,  Airres,  and  Vize 2 wind  power  projects.

For Izmir  substation:  Bergres and  Kinik wind power  projects.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means the  Borrower's  procurement  plan for the  Project,  dated  March
21,  2014,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  as  the  same
shall  be  updated  from time to  time in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Affected  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the
Project, have  experienced  or would  experience  direct economic and  social  impacts caused
by:  (a)  the involuntary  taking  of land, resulting  in  (i) relocation  or loss of shelter;  (ii)  loss
of  assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or  means  of  livelihood,
whether  or  not  such  persons  must  move  to  another  location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary
restriction  of access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse
impacts  on  the  livelihood  of such  persons, and  a  "Project  Affected  Person"  means  any  of
such Project Affected  Persons.

17. 

"Selected  Provinces"  means  the  Provinces  of Canakkale,  Izmir,  Kirklareli  and  any  other
provinces  selected  by the Borrower  in  agreement  with the  Bank.

-18-

