UMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  8334-JM

Loan  Agreement
(Additional  Financing for the Early Childhood Development  Project)

between

JAMAICA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

Z.,2014
/62ae4- 

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

,  2014,  between  JAMAICA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of providing  additional  financing  for  activities  related  to  the
Original  Project (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to this  Agreement).  The  Borrower  and  the
Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I-GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless 

the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

terms  used 

ARTICLE II-LOAN

2.01. 

in 

to 

this  Agreement, 

The Bank  agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower, on  the terms  and conditions  set forth  or
the  amount  of  twelve  million  Dollars
referred 
($12,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to assist  in financing the  project described  in. Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided, that  upon  a Conversion  of all  or  any  portion of the principal amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any
amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid when  due and such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment  Dates are  May  15  and November  15  of each  year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule  set forth in Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower may at any time  request any of the  following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in  order to facilitate  prudent  debt management:

(i) 

(ii) 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an
Approved  Currency;

a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;
or  (B)  all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Reference  Rate  and the Variable  Spread to  a Variable  Rate  based
on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice
versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn
and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable
Spread  to a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed  Spread; and

(iii) 

the  setting of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate
applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an
Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest Rate  Collar on  the  Variable  Rate or
the Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in the table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2 to this  Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

-3-

ARTICLE III-PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the Project  to be  carried  out by  the  ECC with  the
assistance  of the  Participating  Entities,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  V of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV-REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

The  ECC  Legislation  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely,  in  the
opinion  of  the  Bank,  the  ability  of  the  ECC  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations.

The  NSP  Cabinet  Decision  and/or  the  Early  Childhood  Act  shall  have
been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to affect
materially  and  adversely,  in  the opinion  of the Bank, the  implementation
of the Project.

The  ECC  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of its  obligations  under
the Subsidiary  Agreement.

4.02.  The Additional  Event of Acceleration  consists  of the following:

any event specified  in  Section  4.01  (a)  and (b)  of this  Agreement  occurs.

the  event  specified  in  paragraph  (c)  of Section  4.01  of this  Agreement
occurs,  and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of sixty  (60)  days  after  notice  of
the event has  been given  by the  Bank  to the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V-EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of, namely,  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  has been  executed  on behalf of the Borrower  and the ECC.

5.02.  The Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of namely,  that  the  Subsidiary Agreement
has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified by  the Borrower  and  the  ECC  and  is  legally
binding upon  the  Borrower and the ECC  in accordance  with  its terms.

-4-

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement  but  in  no  case  later  than  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  approval  of
the Loan by the Bank's Board  of Directors,  which deadline  will expire  on August
11,  2015.

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is the Minister of Finance and Planning.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National  Heroes  Circle Kingston 4
Jamaica

Facsimile:

876-924-9291

6.03. 

The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction and  Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  the District  of Columbia,  United  States  of America,  as  of the  day  and  year
first above  written.

-5-

JAMAICA

By

4t  orized Representative

Name:  9W')*#dW

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND  DEVELOPMENT

By

A 

orized Representative

Name: 

9o

Title: 

6ur+(9

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (a)  improve  early  childhood  parenting
education  and  support  programs;  (b)  improve  monitoring  of children's  development,  the
screening  of household  level  risks  and  the risk  mitigation  and  early  intervention  systems;
(c)  enhance  the  quality  of early  childhood  schools  and  care  facilities;  and  (d)  strengthen
early childhood  organizations  and institutions.

The Project consists  of the  following parts:

Part 1.  Supporting the Implementation  of NSP  2013-2018

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

and 

education 

Improving  early  childhood
Parenting  Education  and  Support. 
the
through: 
support 
parenting 
implementation  of  a  communications  strategy  to  educate  parents  and
raise  their  awareness  about  ECD  including  early  childhood  stimulation,
the  expanded
nutrition  and  other  parenting  practices;  and 
implementation  of  assessment  and  certification  of these  programs,  all
through  provision  of Grants  for the ECC.

programs 

(ii) 

(i) 

Preventive  Health Care for Children.  Enhancing the preventive  health
care  services  and  early  childhood  care  facilities  through:  (i)  the  use  of
data  from  CHDP  for  timely  identification  of  areas  where  action  is
needed;  (ii)  carrying  out  the  pilot phase  of the  service delivery  model  for
nutrition  for  children  ages  0-3  years;  and  (iii)  the  assessment  of health
centers  offering  Well-Child  Clinics,  all  through  provision  of Grants  for
the ECC.

Improving 

the
Screening,  Diagnosis  and  Early  Intervention. 
monitoring  of children's  development,  the  screening  of household  level
risks,  and  the  risk  mitigation  and  early  intervention  system  through:  (i)
the  approval  and  implementation  of  a  national  service  delivery  model
(including  tools) for  screening,  diagnosis and early  intervention  for child
development  risks;  and  (ii)  the  deployment  of child  therapists  as  well  as
through
ECE  practitioners 
provision  of Grants  for the  ECC.

in  special  needs  education,  all 

trained 

Safe,  Learner-Centered  Early  Childhood  Facilities.  Enhancing  the
quality  of early  childhood  schools  and care  facilities  through  supporting
ECIs  to  implement  Improvement  Plans to  meet the  standards required  for
for
registration/permit 
Community  Schools.

through  provision  of  Grants 

to  operate, 

-7-

Trained  Early  Childhood  Teachers/Practitioners.  Enhancing  the
quality  of early  childhood  teachers  and  practitioners  by  supporting  them
to  acquire  Level  III  or  above  qualifications  and  implementation  of the
ECD curriculum,  through  provision of Grants for the  ECC.

Early  Childhood  Developnent  Sector  Governance.  Strengthening
ECIs  through:  (i)  the  development  and  implementation  of a  community
service  delivery  model  for  comprehensive  ECD  services,  including  a
strategy 
(ii)
developing  an  ECD  policy;  and (iii)  developing  a  resource  mobilization
strategy  for financing  ECD, all through  provision  of Grants for the ECC.

to  coordinate  with  NGOs  providing  ECD  services; 

Evidence-Based  Decision  Making. 
Strengthening  evidence-based
decision  making  through:  (i)  implementing  Age  4  School  Readiness
Evaluation; 
reporting  on
performance  of  ECD  sector  and  outcomes,  including  school  readiness,
nutrition  status and  growth,  all through  provision  of Grants  for ECC.

(ii)  establishing  a  baseline;  and 

(iii) 

Part 2.  Institutional  Strengthening

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  ECC  and  Participating  Entities  to  carry  out
activities  for implementing  the NSP  2013-2018  including:

Revising the communications  strategy for ECD.

Monitoring  and  evaluating, 
communication  strategy  in  Part  1(a)  (i) of the Project.

through  national  surveys, 

the  ECD

Updating the management  information  systems  for the  ECC and MOH to
capture  information  from the CHDP.

Implementing  the  standardized  curriculum  in  ECIs.

Providing  equipment for Development Officers  and  inspectors  of ECIs.

Providing  specialized 
training  to  EC  practitioners  and  teachers  to
upgrade  their  qualifications  to  support  children,  including  those  with
special  needs.

Evaluating NSP  2013-2018  and developing NSP  2019-2024.

Monitoring  of parish-level  performance  on  NSP  2013-2018  indicators
and  outcomes.

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

-8-

(i) 

Providing  training  for  the  roll  out  of  the  service  delivery  models  for
nutrition for children  ages 0-3  and  4-6 years.

(j) 

Assessing  and certifying Well-Child Clinics.

-9-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Subsidiary Agreement

A. 

1. 

To facilitate  the carrying  out of the  Project by  the ECC, the Borrower  shall make
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available,  on  a  grant  basis,  to  the  ECC  under  a
subsidiary  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  the  ECC,
under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  ("Subsidiary  Agreement"),
including,  inter alia the obligation of the ECC to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

technical, 

administrative, 

in
carry  out  said  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and 
financial,
conformity  with  appropriate 
economic  standards  and  practices,  including  the  provisions  of the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines,  the  Project  Operation  Manual,  the  pertinent
provisions  of  Article  V  of the  General  Conditions  and  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Section  1.B.1  of  this  Schedule,  to  maintain,
throughout  Project implementation,  key staff for Project  implementation,
including  without  limitation  a  director  of cross-sectoral  coordination,  a
director  of finance,  a  procurement  specialist  and  other  staff  in  adequate
numbers, all  with  qualifications  and experience  satisfactory  to the Bank;

no  later  than  April  30  each  year during  Project  implementation,  starting
in  the  month  of April  in  which  the  Effective  Date  falls,  enter  into  an
MOU  acceptable  to  the  Bank  with  each  Participating  Entity  which
defines the activities  to be carried  out  under the Project and  the  reporting
obligations  during the  subsequent fiscal  year;

carry  out jointly  with  the  Bank  and  the Borrower  a  mid-term  review  of
the NSP  2013-2018  as  referred  to  in  Section  II.A.2  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement;

ensure  that  no  construction  or  expansion  of infrastructure  is carried  out
under  the  Project,  other  than  minor  works  financed  with  counterpart
funding  to  which  the  provisions  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual  shall apply;

not provide  any  health  services  that produce  health  care waste  under the
Project;

procure  all  goods  and  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and
to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

- 10 -

provisions  of Section  III of this  Schedule;  and  ensure  that all  such  goods
and services are used exclusively  for the purposes  of the Project;

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to enable  the Bank to  monitor
in  accordance  with  indicators
and  evaluate  on  an  ongoing  basis, 
acceptable  to the Bank,  the progress  of implementing  the  Project  and the
achievement  of  its  objectives;  and  prepare  the  Project  Reports  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions
and  on the basis  of indicators  set forth in the Project Operational  Manual.
Each  such report  shall  cover one calendar  quarter,  and shall  be  furnished
to  the Borrower  within  sixty  days  after the  end  of such  period  to enable
the  Borrower  to  incorporate  such  report  in  the  pertinent  Project  Report
for  the  same  period  and  to  comply  with  its  reporting  obligations  under
Section  II.A.2  of this  Schedule  2;  and (ii)  to,  not later  than  four  months
after  the  Closing  Date,  prepare,  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  a  final
report,  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request  to  enable  the  Borrower  to  comply  with  its  obligations  under
Section  II.A.2 of this Schedule;

prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower,  not  later  than  sixty  days  after  the
end  of each calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  relating
to  the  previous  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
for  consolidation  in the  interim  unaudited financial  reports required  to be
furnished  by the  Borrower to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  II.B.2  of this
Schedule;

(i) 

including: 

system  and  prepare 

financial  management 

in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect 

financial
maintain  a 
statements  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  accounting  standards
its
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  both 
the  operations,
operations  and  financial  condition, 
resources  and  expenditures  related  to  the  Project;  (ii)  to  have  such
financial  statements  audited  annually  by  independent  auditors acceptable
to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards
acceptable  to the  Bank,  each  said  audit  to cover  the  period  of one  Fiscal
Year;  and  (iii)  to  promptly  furnish  the  audited  financial  statements  for
each such  period to the Borrower and the Bank, but in any event not later
than  six  months  after  the  end  of  such  period;  (iv)  to  ensure  that  said
financial  statements,  as  so  audited,  are  made  publicly  available  in  a
timely fashion  and  in  a manner acceptable  to  the Bank;  and  (v)  furnish to
the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  such  audited  financial
statements as the Bank may from time  to time reasonably  request;  and

(j) 

open  and maintain  a  Project  account,  until the  completion  of the  Project,
in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank;
and  ensure  that  the  funds  deposited  into  said  account  by  the  Borrower

2. 

B. 

1. 

shall  be  used  exclusively  to  finance  the  cost  of Eligible  Expenditures
required  for the Project.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  in such manner  as  to protect  the  interests  of the Borrower
and  the Bank  and  to  accomplish  the purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  waive,
terminate  or fail  to enforce  the Subsidiary  Agreement  or any  of its  provisions.

Institutional and Other Arrangements

shall  cause 

throughout  Project
the  ECC 
The  Borrower 
including  without
implementation,  key  staff  for  Project 
limitation  a  director  of  cross-sectoral  coordination,  a  director  of  finance,  a
in  adequate  numbers,  all  with
procurement 
qualifications  and experience satisfactory  to the Bank.

to  maintain, 
implementation, 

specialist  and  other  staff 

2. 

Without  limitation  to the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower  shall ensure  that:

(a) 

(b) 

the Bank  is  promptly  informed  of any developments  in  the  legislation or
regulations  of the  Borrower  and the  ECC and/or  the  rules  or  procedures
of  the  Borrower  and  the  ECC,  including  without  limitation,  the  ECC
Legislation, the  Early Childhood Act  and the NSP  Cabinet Decision,  that
may affect Project implementation;  and

the Borrower's  agencies  which are  required  to provide  services  under the
Project  (including  the  Participating  Entities),  are  made  aware  of  the
provisions  and  requirements  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and  take
all  actions  necessary  to  support  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  in
compliance  with  such provisions  and requirements.

3. 

The  Borrower  shall,  at  all  times  during  Project  implementation,  operate  and
maintain  a  Joint  Steering  Committee,  chaired  by the  Permanent  Secretary  of the
Ministry  of Education,  comprising  key stakeholders  from the  government  for the
purposes of implementing  the Project.

C. 

Project  Operational Manual

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower  shall ensure that the:

(a) 

Project  is carried  out in accordance  with the  Project  Operational  Manual;
and

- 12  -

(b) 

the  Project  Operational  Manual  or  any  part  thereof  is  not  amended,
waived,  suspended  or  abrogated  without  the  Bank's  prior  written
concurrence,  and  in  case  of any  inconsistency  between  the provisions  of
the  Project  Operational  Manual  and  those  of  this  Agreement,  the
provisions of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  no  construction  or expansion  of infrastructure  is
carried  out  under the  Project,  other  than  minor  works  financed  with  counterpart
funding to which  the provisions  set  forth in the Project  Operational  Manual  shall
apply.

The  Borrower  shall  not  provide  any  health  services  that  produce  health  care
waste under the Project.

Section  I. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the progress  of the Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  agreed  with the  Bank  and  set  forth  in
the  Project  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of
one  FY semester, and  shall be  furnished  to the  Bank  not later than  sixty (60)  days
after the end of the period  covered  by  such report.

Without  limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph  I above,  the  Project  Report for
FY  15/16  shall  be  considered  by  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  as  the  mid-term
Project Report.

limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08 

(b)  of  the  General
Without 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall,  and  shall  cause  ECC  to:  (a)  not  later  than
November  30  of each  year  during Project  implementation,  exchange  views  with
the Bank  concerning  progress of the NSP  2013-2018  as  specified  in the pertinent
Progress  Report;  and  (b) thereafter,  take  all  necessary  actions  to  ensure  the
proper  implementation  of the  NSP  2013-2018,  based  on  the  conclusions  and
recommendations  of  each  said  Project  Report,  all  in  a  manner  and  terms
acceptable  to the Bank.

E. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Section  111. 

Procurement

General

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

- 13  -

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause  to be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without limitation on the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, the Borrower shall
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of
interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project,
each  calendar  quarter, 
covering the quarter,  in form  and substance  satisfactory to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  not later than  six months  after the end of such period.

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for  the Project  and to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines, and  with the  provisions of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the Project  and to
be financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines and with  the  provisions of this  Section.

in  this  Section  to  describe
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below 
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement
Guidelines  or the Consultant Guidelines,  as the case  may be.
Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis of International  Competitive  Bidding  procedures.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used
for  procurement  of  goods  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts
specified  in the Procurement  Plan:

-14-

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

National Competitive  Bidding;
Shopping;  and
Direct Contracting.

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the Procurement  Plan:

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

(g) 

Quality-based  Selection;
Selection  under a Fixed  Budget;
Least Cost  Selection;
Selection  based  on Consultants'  Qualifications;
Single  Source  Selection;
Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraph  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines; and
Single  Source  procedures  for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall set  forth those contracts  which  shall be  subject to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the  table  in paragraph  2 below.

- 15  -

2. 

The  following table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed for Eligible Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1) Grants  for Community 
Schools  and Grants  for
the ECC under Part  I of
the Project

(2)  Goods,  Training and 
consultants'  services
under Part 2  of the
Project

11,000,000 

100%

970,000 

100%

(3) Front-end  Fee 

30,000 

Amount  payable pursuant to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with Section  2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions

Amount  due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

(4) Interest Rate  Cap or 
Interest Rate  Collar 
premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

12,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made.

(a) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  two  million  four
hundred  thousand  Dollars  ($2,400,000)  equivalent  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior to this  date but  on or after June  1, 2013,  (but  in  no
case  earlier  than  one  year  from  the  date  of this Agreement)  for  Eligible
Expenditures  under Categories  (1) and (2);  or

-16-

(b) 

for payments made  for  Grants for Community  Schools and  Grants  for the
ECC  under  Category  (1)  until  the  Borrower  submits  to  the  Bank
evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  the  ECC  and  the  MOH  have
maintained  budget  lines  exclusively  dedicated 
to  the  financing  of
expenditures  necessary  to  meet  the  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2013-
2014.

2. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  and without limitation  to
the  provisions  set  forth  in  paragraph  I  above,  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account  in  respect  of Eligible  Expenditures  under  Category  (1)  of the  table  in
paragraph  I above  may be made  by the Borrower  only as  follows:

(a) 

(i) 

A  first withdrawal  shall be  made  on or  about June  1, 2014,  in  an
amount  not  exceeding  $1,200,000  for each  Disbursement-linked
Target 2013-2014  achieved  pursuant to  subparagraph  (B)  below,
in  respect  of payments  made by the Borrower  in  the previous  FY
for  Grants  for  Community  Schools  and  Grants  for  the  ECC
(other  than  those  payments  already  reimbursed  by  the  Bank
under the  Original  Project  or under Part  B.1  (a)  of this  Section),
subject to submission  to the Bank of:

(A) 

the IFR for the  calendar quarter ended  March  31,  2014;

(B) 

evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  one  or  more  of
the  following  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2013-2014
have  been achieved:

1. 

2. 

3. 

at  least  25%  of  all  of  the  Borrower's  early
childhood  parenting  education 
and  support
programs are  certified;

at  least  54%  of all  ECIs  have  received  a  Permit
to  Operate;

at  least  90% of Development  Officers  are  using
the Classroom  Observation  Tool;

(C) 

the 

expenditures 

the budget  appropriation  for the  FY  2014-2015  showing
that 
the
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2014-2015  have  been
adequately  budgeted 
for  by 
the
Participating  Entities;  and

the  ECC 

to  meet 

necessary 

and 

(D) 

a  budget  execution  report,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
that  the  budget  execution  rates  under  the
showing 

- 17-

Borrower's  budget 
lines  for  Grants  for  Community
Schools  and  Grants  for  the ECC  for  the  FY  2013-2014
exceed  an average disbursement  rate of 60%.

(ii) 

In  the  event  that  a  Disbursement  Linked  Target  is  not  met,  the
Borrower  may  submit  at  any  time  a  withdrawal  application
requesting  payment  for that  Disbursement  Linked  Target  once  it
has  been  achieved. 
In  the  event  that  any  one  or  more  of the
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2013-2014  are  not  achieved  by
June  1, 2014,  or  if any  one  or more  of the  other  Disbursement-
linked Targets  are  achieved  prior to  their  scheduled  completion,
the  Bank  may  agree  to  reschedule  their  timetable  for  approval
and subsequent  disbursement,  if applicable.

(b) 

(i) 

A  second  withdrawal  shall be made  on  or about June  1, 2015,  in
an  amount not exceeding $500,000  for each Disbursement-linked
Target  2014-2015  achieved  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (B)  below,
in respect  of payments  made  by the Borrower in the previous  FY
for  Grants  for  Community  Schools  and  Grants  for  the  ECC
(other  than  those  payments  already  reimbursed  by  the  Bank
under  the  preceding  paragraph),  subject  to  submission  to  the
Bank  of:

(A) 

(B) 

the IFR for the  calendar quarter ended March  31,  2015;

evidence,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  that  one  or  more  of
the  following  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2014-2015
have been  achieved:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

At  least  30%  of  all  early  childhood  parenting
education  and support  programs  are  certified  by
the relevant agency;

annual 

publication 

ECC 
the
performance  of the  ECD  sector  and  NSP  2013-
2018;

reports 

on 

At  least  30%  of  ECIs  are  implementing  their
Improvement  Plans;  and

At  least 30% of ECI practitioners  are  qualified at
Level  III and above.

(C) 

the  budget  appropriation  for  the  FY  2015-2016  showing
the
that 

expenditures 

to  meet 

necessary 

the 

(ii) 

(c) 

(i) 

- 18 -

(D) 

Disbursement-linked  Targets  2015-2016  have  been
the
for  by 
adequately  budgeted 
Participating Entities;  and

the  ECC  and 

a  budget  execution  report,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
showing  that  the  budget  execution  rates  under:  (1) the
Borrower's  budget  lines  for  Grants  for  Community
Schools  and Grants  for  the ECC  for the  FY  2014-2015;
and  (2)  the  ECC's  and  Participating  Entities'  budget
the
lines 
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2014-2015,  exceed  an
average  disbursement  rate of  60%.

expenditures 

to  meet 

necessary 

for 

In  the  event  that  a  Disbursement-  linked  Target  is  not  met,  the
Borrower  may  submit  at  any  time  a  withdrawal  application
requesting  payment  for that Disbursement  Linked  Target  once  it
In  the  event  that  any  one  or  more  of the
has  been  achieved. 
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2014-2015  are  not  achieved  by
June  1, 2015,  or  if any one  or  more  of the  other  Disbursement-
linked Targets  are  achieved  prior  to their  scheduled  completion,
the  Bank  may  agree  to  reschedule  their  timetable  for  approval
and  subsequent  disbursement,  if applicable.

A  third withdrawal  shall be made  on or about June  1, 2016,  in an
amount  not  exceeding  $500,000  for  each  Disbursement-linked
Target  2015-2016  achieved  pursuant to  subparagraph  (B)  below,
in  respect of payments  made  by the Borrower  in the 2015  FY for
Grants  for  Community  Schools  and  Grants  for  the  ECC (other
than  those  payments  already  reimbursed  by  the  Bank  under  the
preceding  paragraph),  subject to submission to the Bank of:

(A) 

(B) 

the IFR for the  calendar  quarter ended  March  31,  2016;

evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  one  or more  of
the  following  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2015-2016
have been  achieved:

1. 

2. 

the 

completed 
Management 
Ministry  of Health;

to 
transfer  of  CHDP 
Information  System  with 

the
the

for 

the  national  service  delivery  model  including
early
screening,  diagnosis 
tools 
intervention  for  child  development  risks  have
been approved  by the MOH  and ECC;

and 

-19-

3. 

4. 

5. 

at  least  65%  of all  ECIs  have  received  a  Permit
to Operate;

the  relevant  Borrower's  authority  has  approved
the  strategy  for  sustainable  financing  of  ECD
referred to  in Part  1 (f) (iii)  of the Project; and

the Age  4  School  Readiness  Evaluation has  been
implemented  as  part  of the  Borrower's  national
assessment program,  and results  presented to  the
MOE.

the 

expenditures 

the  budget appropriation  for  the FY  2016-2017  showing
the
that 
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2015-2016  have  been
the
for  by 
adequately  budgeted 
Participating  Entities; and

the  ECC  and 

to  meet 

necessary 

to  the  Bank,
a  budget  execution  report,  satisfactory 
showing  that  the  budget  execution  rates  under:  (1)  the
lines  for  Grants  for  Community
Borrower's  budget 
Schools  and  Grants  for  the  ECC for the FY  2016-2017;
and  (2)  the  ECC's  and  Participating  Entities'  budget
the
lines 
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2015-2016  exceed  an
average  disbursement rate  of 60%.

expenditures 

to  meet 

necessary 

for 

(C) 

(D) 

In  the  event that  a  Disbursement  Linked  Target  is  not  met,  the
Borrower  may  submit  at  any  time  a  withdrawal  application
requesting  payment  for  that  Disbursement  Linked  Target  once  it
In  the  event  that  any  one  or  more  of the
has  been  achieved. 
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2015-2016  are  not  achieved  by
June  1, 2016,  or  if any  one  or more  of the  other  Disbursement-
linked Targets  are  achieved  prior  to their  scheduled  completion,
the  Bank  may  agree  to  reschedule  their  timetable  for  approval
and subsequent  disbursement,  if applicable.

A  fourth  withdrawal  shall  be  made  on  or  about  June  1, 2017,  in
an amount  not exceeding $500,000  for each  Disbursement-linked
Target  2016-2017  achieved  pursuant  to  subparagraph  (B)  below,
in respect  of payments  made  by the Borrower  in  the 2016 FY  for
Grants  for  Community  Schools  and  Grants  for  the  ECC  (other
than  those  payments  already  reimbursed  by  the  Bank  under  the
preceding  paragraph),  subject to  submission  to the Bank  of:

(d) 

(i) 

-20-

(A) 

(B) 

the IFR for the  calendar  quarter ended March  31,  2017;

evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  one  or  more  of
the  following  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2016-2017
have been achieved:

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

the communications  strategy  referred  to in  Part  1
(a) (i)  of the  Project is being  implemented;

service  delivery  model 

the 
for  screening,
diagnosis  and  early  intervention  referred  to  in
Part  1 (c)  (i)  of the  Project is  being  implemented
in at least 3  parishes;

at  least  40%  of  ECIs  are  implementing  their
Improvement  Plans  referred  to  in  Part  I  (d)  of
the Project;  and

at  least  35%  of ECI  practitioners  are  qualified  at
Level  III or  above.

the 

expenditures 

the  budget  appropriation  for the  FY  2017-2018  showing
that 
the
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2016-2017  have  been
adequately  budgeted 
the
for  by 
Participating  Entities; and

the  ECC  and 

to  meet 

necessary 

a  budget  execution  report,  satisfactory 
to  the  Bank,
showing  that  the  budget  execution  rates  under:  (1)  the
Borrower's  budget 
lines  for  Grants  for  Community
Schools  and Grants  for  the ECC  for  the  FY  2017-2018;
and  (2)  the  ECC's  and  Participating  Entities'  budget
lines 
the
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2016-2017,  exceed  an
average  disbursement  rate of 60%.

expenditures 

to  meet 

necessary 

for 

(C) 

(D) 

(ii) 

In  the  event  that  a  Disbursement  Linked  Target  is  not  met,  the
Borrower  may  submit  at  any  time  a  withdrawal  application
requesting  payment  for that Disbursement  Linked Target  once  it
In  the  event  that  any  one  or  more  of the
has  been  achieved. 
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2016-2017  are  not  achieved  by
June  1, 2017,  or  if any  one  or  more  of the  other  Disbursement-
linked  Targets  are  achieved  prior  to their  scheduled  completion,
the  Bank  may  agree  to  reschedule  their  timetable  for  approval
and subsequent disbursement,  if applicable.

-21 

-

(e) 

(i) 

A fifth  withdrawal  shall  be made  on or about  June  1, 2018,  in  an
amount  not  exceeding  $500,000  for  each  Disbursement-linked
Target  2017-2018  achieved  pursuant to subparagraph  (B)  below,
in  respect  of payments  made  by the Borrower  in the  FY 2017  for
Grants  for  Community  Schools  and  Grants  for  the  ECC  (other
than  those  payments  already  reimbursed  by  the  Bank  under  the
preceding  paragraph),  subject to submission to the Bank of:

(A) 

(B) 

the IFR for the  calendar quarter ended March  31,  2018;

evidence,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  that  one  or  more  of
the  following  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2017-2018
have  been achieved:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

least  45%  of  all 

the  Borrower's  early
at 
childhood  parenting  education  and  support
programs  are  certified;

at  least  10%  of  health  centers  offering  Well
Child Care Clinics  are  certified;

service 

delivery  model 

for
the  national 
screening,  diagnosis  and  early  intervention  for
child  development  risks  referred  to  in  Part  1 (c)
of the  Project is  being  implemented  in at  least  6
parishes;

the Community-based  service  delivery  model for
comprehensive  ECD  services  referred  to  in  Part
I (f)  of the  Project  has  been  implemented  in  at
least  6  parishes;

(C) 

a  budget  execution  report,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
showing  that  the  budget  execution  rates  under:  (1)  the
Borrower's  budget  lines  for  Grants  for  Community
Schools  and Grants  for  the  ECC for  the  FY  2017-2018;
and  (2)  the  ECC's  and  Participating  Entities'  budget
the
lines 
Disbursement-linked  - Targets  2017-2018,  exceed  an
average disbursement  rate of 60%.

expenditures 

to  meet 

necessary 

for 

- 22  -

(ii) 

If any  one  or more  of the other  Disbursement-linked  Targets  for
2017-2018  are  achieved  prior  to their  scheduled  completion, the
Bank  may  agree  to  reschedule  their  timetable  for  approval  and
subsequent  disbursement.

3. 

The Closing  Date is  September 28,  2018.

- 23  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b) the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date, such  repayable  amount to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each May15  and November  15 
Beginning on May  15,  2020
through  November  15,  2042

On May  15,  2043 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

2.13%

2.02%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully  withdrawn  as  of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such withdrawal  by a fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment Share  specified  in the  table in paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for said Principal  Payment Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred to  in paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to which a  Currency
Conversion applies.

- 24  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn within  two calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any Principal  Payment Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on  or after  the respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the
longer  apply  to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
withdrawals  made after the  adoption of such  billing system.

shall  no 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the Screen Rate.

If the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is denominated  in  more  than  one Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each such amount.

4. 

5. 

- 25  -

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Age  4  School  Readiness  Evaluation"  means  a  tool  for  screening  children's
general  development  and  readiness  for  primary  school  at  the  end  of the  second
year at an ECI.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category set  forth  in  the  table  in Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Classroom  Observation  Tool"  means  an  automated  system  designed  for
development  officers  to  observe  and  record  best  practices  in  early  childhood
classrooms  for children  age 3-5.

"CHDP"  means  the  Child  Health  and  Development  Passport,  approved  in  2009
by  the Borrower  as  a  means  for  monitoring  the  holistic  development  of children,
including  immunization  records,  personal  and family health  records  and  nutrition
check lists.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Development  Officers"  means  staff employed  by  the  ECC  to  provide technical
to  promote
expertise,  monitoring  and  supervisory 
comprehensive  development  support  for early  childhood  institutions.

functions  of  ECIs 

"Disbursement-linked  Targets"  means,  collectively,  the  Disbursement-linked
Targets  2013-2014,  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2014-2015,  Disbursement-
linked  Targets  2015-2016,  Disbursement-linked  Targets  2016-2017  and
Disbursement-linked  Targets  2017-2018;  and  "Disbursement-linked  Target"
individually  means any  one of such  targets.

"Disbursement-linked  Targets  2013-2014"  means  collectively  the  targets  set
in  Section  IV.B.2  (a)  (i)  (B)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and
forth 
"Disbursement-linked  Target  2013-2014"  individually  means  any  one  of such
targets.

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19, 

20. 

21. 

22. 

- 26 -

"Disbursement-linked  Targets  2014-2015"  means  collectively  the  targets  set
forth  in  Section  IV.B.2.  (b)  (i)  (B)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and
"Disbursement-linked  Target  2014-2015"  individually  means  any  one  of such
targets.

"Disbursement-linked  Targets  2015-2016"  means  collectively  the  targets  set
forth  in  Section  IV.B.2.  (c)  (i)  (B)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and
"Disbursement-linked  Target  2015-2016"  individually  means  any  one  of  such
targets.

"Disbursement-linked  Targets  2016-2017"  means  collectively  the  targets  set
forth  in  Section  IV.B.2.  (d)  (i)  (B)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and
"Disbursement-linked  Target  2016-2017"  individually  means  any  one  of  such
targets.

"Disbursement-linked  Targets  2017-2018"  means  collectively  the  targets  set
forth  in  Section  IV.B.2.  (e)  (i)  (B)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and
"Disbursement-linked  Target  2017-2018"  individually  means  any  one  of such
targets.

"EC'  means early childhood.

"ECD" means  early  childhood  development.

"ECE" means  early  childhood  education.

"ECI"  means  an  early  childhood  institution  as  defined  in  the  Early  Childhood
Act.

"Early Childhood  Act"  means the  Borrower's  Early  Childhood  Act,  2005  (Act  5
of 2005),  dated  February  28,  2005,  as  amended  to date.

"FY"  means  the fiscal year of the Borrower  (April  1 - March  31).

"FY  Semester"  means  a  semester  of the  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower  (April  1 -
September  30  or October  1 - March  31).

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans", dated  March  12,  2012.

"Grants  for  Community  Schools"  means  payments  made  by  the  Borrower  for
salaries  (or  a  portion  thereof)  of ECD  practitioners,  included  in  the  Borrower's
budget  for  the  relevant  FY  as  a  separate  budget  line,  all  in  accordance  with  the
NSP  2013-2018.

23, 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

-27-

"Grants for the ECC" means  payments  made  by the Borrower  for:  (i) salaries  and
travel  expenses  and  subsistence  of ECC  staff;  (ii)  rental  of property by the  ECC;
and  (iii)  public  utility  services  for  the  ECC;  which  grants  are  included  in  the
Borrower's  budget for the relevant FY  as a separate budget  line, all in  accordance
with the NSP  2013-2018.

"HEART  Trust"  means  the  Human  Employment  and  Resource  Training  Trust
established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Human  Employment  and  Resource
Training  Act dated  September  1, 1982,  as amended to the date of this Agreement.

"IFR"  means  the  interim unaudited  financial  reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.B.2
of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Improvement  Plans"  means  a  working document  for use  by the  management  of
each  ECI,  based  on  an  institution's  inspection  report,  outlining  ECI's  priorities,
objectives and targets for  strategic  improvement  over a five year period.

"Joint  Steering  Committee"  means  a  committee  set  up  by  the  Borrower  chaired
by  the  Permanent  Secretary  of MOE,  comprising  key  public  stakeholders  and
responsible  for providing oversight and guidance on  Project  implementation.

"Level  III"  means  a  vocational  classification  from  the  HEART  Trust  where
the  skills  to  operate  as  an
having  received  training,  a  student  will  have 
independent/autonomous  skilled worker.

"MOE"  means  the Borrower's  Ministry  of Education.

"MOFP"  means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance  and Planning.

"MOH"  means the Borrower's  Ministry of Health.

"MIS'  means  Management  Information  System.

"MLSS"  means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Labor and  Social  Security.

"MOU"  means  any  of  the  Memoranda  of  Understanding  to  be  entered  into
between  the ECC and each  of the Participating  Entities pursuant  to  Section  l.A. 1
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"National  Parenting  Support  Commission"  means  an  arm  of  the  MOE
responsible  for coordinating  all parenting  services.

36. 

"NGOs"  means  non-governmental  organizations.

-28-

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

"NSPs"  means  the  Borrower's  National  Strategic  Plans  for  Early  Childhood
Development  for 2008-2012,  2013-2018,  and  2019-2022  and NSP  means  each
of them  individually.

"NSP  Cabinet  Decision"  means  the  NSP  Cabinet  Decisions  referenced  in  the
Original Loan Agreement.

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  Loan  Agreement  for  the Original Project
between  the  Borrower and  the Bank,  dated June  10,  2008 (Loan No. 7554-JM)  as
amended.

"Original  Project"  means  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  I  of the  Original
Loan  Agreement.

"Participating  Entities"  means,  collectively,  the  MOE,  the  MOH,  the  MLSS,  the
MOFP,  the  PIOJ,  National  Parenting  Support  Commission  and  the  HEART
Trust; and "Participating  Entity" means  each  one of them individually.

"PATH"  means  the  Borrower's  Program  of Advancement  through  Health  and
Education.

"Permit  to  Operate"  means  a  certificate  issued  to  an  ECI confirming  that  it  has
fulfilled  the  health  and  safety  conditions  for  children  and  employees  as  outlined
in the  standards and operations  manual  for ECIs.

"PIOJ" means  the Planning  Institute  of Jamaica.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits and Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated December  20,  2013  and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be
updated  from time  to time  in  accordance with  the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project Implementing  Entity" or "ECC" means  the Borrower's  Early  Childhood
Commission,  a  corporate  body  established  pursuant  to  the  Project  Implementing
Entity's Legislation.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  or  ECC  Legislation"  means  the
Borrower's  Early  Childhood  Commission  Act, 2003  (Act 2  of 2003)  as  amended
to date.

-29  -

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

to 

thereto,  satisfactory 

the  Bank  and  adopted  by 

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual,  including  all  appendices  and
the  Project
schedules 
Implementing  Entity,  which  sets  forth  the policies  and  procedures  that  apply to
the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  which  include,  inter  alia: (a)  the  roles  and
in  Project
responsibilities  of  each  of  the  agencies  or  entities 
implementation,  including  the ECC and the Participating  Entities;  (b) the staffing
requirements  for  the  Project;  (c) the  estimated  implementation  schedule;  (d) the
procedures  for  accessing,  disbursing and  accounting  for funds  under  the Project;
(e)  the  indicators  to  be  used  in the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the Project;  (f)
the  procedures  for Project  monitoring,  supervision  and  evaluation,  including the
format  and  content  of  the  Project  Reports;  (g)  procurement  and  financial
management  procedures  for  the  Project;  and  (h)  basic  construction  rules  for
contractors  performing  minor  works  under  the  Project,  detailing  provisions  to
minimize  dust,  noise  and  other  nuisances,  safeguard  worker  health  and  safety,
and require  adequate  disposal of any  construction materials.

involved 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the  Loan available to  the Project  Implementing  Entity.

Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  incurred  for  the  training  of  personnel
involved  in  Project  implementation,  including  travel  and  subsistence  costs  for
training participants,  costs associated  with securing  the services of trainers,  rental
of training  facilities, preparation  and reproduction  of training materials,  and other
costs  directly  related to course  preparation and  implementation.

"Well-Child  Clinic"  means a  public health care facility that provides  preventative
care  services  including  immunization,  health  screening  and monitoring of growth
and  development  for children;  and anticipatory  guidance for  parents.

