OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8418-MA

Loan Agreement

(Second  Skills and Employment  Development  Policy  Loan)

KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated September  19, 2014

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8418-MA

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  September  19,  2014,  entered 

into  between  KINGDOM  OF
MOROCCO  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the  Program  (as
defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).  The  Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing on
the  basis,  inter alia, of:  (a)  the actions  which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program
and  which  are  described  in  Section  I of Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower's
maintenance  of  an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
therefore  hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

2.05. 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or  referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of seventy-three  million  three  hundred  thousand  Euro
(E73,300,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement
Conversion 
("Loan").
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  support  of  the  Program  in
accordance  with Section  11  of Schedule  I to this Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%),  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.
The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion of all  or  any  portion of the  principal  amount of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
in
interest  payable  by 
Section  3.02(e)  of the  General  Conditions.

instead  be  calculated  as  provided 

the  Borrower  shall 

-2-

The Payment  Dates  are  May  15  and November  15  in each  year.

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set  forth in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.06. 

2.07. 

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms of the  Loan in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i)  a  change of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Variable  Spread  to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding by  the establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate  Collar on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference
Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV of the  General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion Guidelines.
Promptly  following the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which  the  Borrower has  requested  that the premium  be  paid  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05(c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the table  in  Section  II of
Schedule  I to this Agreement.

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of  this  Article  II as  the
Bank  may,  from  time  to time,  reasonably  request.

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  To  this
end,  and  further to  Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall from  time  to  time,  at the  request of either  party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress achieved  in  carrying  out the  Program;

-3-

(b) 

(c) 

prior  to each  such exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in  such  detail  as the Bank  shall reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any  situation  that  would  have
the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or  any  action
taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action  specified  in  Section  I of  Schedule
I to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  a  situation  has
arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a significant  part  of it,  will  be
carried  out.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the  event
specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and is  continuing  for a  period  of sixty
(60)  days  after notice  of the  event has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
Bank  is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in carrying  out the  Program
and with  the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic  policy  framework.

5.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the date  ninety (90)  days  after the  date  of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister of Economy  and  Finance.

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministere  de  l'Economie  et des  Finances
Avenue  Mohammed  V
Rabat
Kingdom  of Morocco

Cable: 

MINFIN 

Facsimile:

212-537-67-75-30/31

6.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Rabat,  Kingdom  of Morocco,  as  of the day and year  first above  written.

KINGDOM  OF  MOROCCO

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Mo  amed  Boussaid

Title: Minister  of Economy  and Finance

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative 

/

Name:  Simon  Gray

Title:  Country  Director

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  Taken  Under the Program

The actions  taken  by  the Borrower  under the  Program  include the following:

The  Ministry  of  National  Education  and  Vocational  Training  has  signed  thirteen  (13)
multiannual  training  contracts  with private  sector  entities,  by January  9,  2014.
The  Council  of Government  (Conseil de Gouvernement ) has  adopted  on  June  5,  2014,  a
draft  Law  No.13.74,  which  inter  alia provides  for the governance  and  financing  of on-the-
job  training.

A  national  commission  to follow  up on the implementation  of the  National  Qualifications
Framework  (Cadre  national  des  certifications),  has  been  established  by  Circular
issued  by  the  Head  of  Government  (Chef  du
No.  5-2014  dated  June  4,  2014, 
Gouvernement).
The  Ministry  of  National  Education  and  Vocational  Training  has  developed  a  support
mechanism  aimed  at  non-governmental  organizations,  designed  to  offer  vocational
training  programs  to  out-of-school  youth  from  disadvantaged  backgrounds.
The  Council  of  Government  has  adopted  on  July  11,  2013,  a  draft  Law  No.  80.12  to
establish  the  National  Agency  for  Higher  Education  and  Scientific  Research  Evaluation
(Agence  nationale de  l'evaluation de  l'enseignement  supirieur et  de  la  recherche
scientifique) to  carry  out  institutional  evaluations  of public  and  private  higher  education
and scientific  research  institutions.
The  Ministry  of Labor  and  Social  Affairs  has  revised  its  2012-2016  strategic  action  plan
to  include  a  detailed  2014-2016  work  program  which  defines  priorities,  programs,
its
budgets,  monitoring 
implementation.
The  Ministry  of Labor  and  Social  Affairs  has  launched  the  preparation  of an  eighteen-
month  pilot  program  to  extend  the  coverage  of  the  National  Employment  Promotion
Agency  (Agence  nationale de  promotion  de  1'emploi  et  des  competences)  to  non-
graduates  (i.e,  those who  have  not  completed  high  school  (baccalaurdat), or  do  not  have
a  vocational  training diploma),  in  the  areas covered  by  five local  offices  of such  agency.
The  Council  of Government  has  adopted  on  November  7,  2013,  a  draft  Law  No.  114.13
to  establish  a  legal,  fiscal  and  social  status  for  self-entrepreneurship  that:  (i)  minimizes
(ii)  simplifies  the  administrative
the  costs  of  becoming  a  formal  self-entrepreneur; 
procedures;  and  (iii)  provides  for  the  establishment  of  a  social  insurance  coverage
mechanism  for  self-entrepreneurs.
The  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Affairs  has  established  a  monitoring  and  evaluation
mechanism  for the  employment  measures  included  in  its 2012-2016  strategic  action  plan.

indicators,  and  clarifies 

in  monitoring 

responsibilities 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

-6-

10. 

A. 

B. 

The  Council  of Government  has  adopted  on  May  15,  2014,  a  draft  Decree  No.  2.14.280
inter  alia,  the  establishment  of  a  National  Labor  Market  Observatory
regarding, 
Department  (Direction de  l'observatoire national du  march  du  travail) at the  Ministry
of Labor  and Social  Affairs,  for monitoring  and  analyzing  the labor  market,  and the 2014
budget  of the  Ministry  of Labor  and  Social  Affairs  includes  a  specific  allocation  for  the
National  Labor  Market  Observatory  to carry  out  its mission.

Section  II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

General.  The  Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice  to  the  Borrower.

Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan  (except  for  amounts  required  to  pay  the  Front-
end  Fee)  is allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the  Borrower  may  make
withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The allocation  of the  amounts  of the  Loan  to  this  end
is  set out  in  the table  below:

Allocations 

(1)  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
(2)  Front-end  Fee 
(3)  Amount  due pursuant  to  Section
2.08(c)  of this Agreement

Amount  of the  Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in  Euro)
73,116,750
183,250

TOTAL AMOUNT 
Withdrawal Tranche  Release  Conditions.  No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of the  Single
Withdrawal  Tranche  unless the  Bank  is  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being  carried  out
by  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

73,300,000

Deposits  of Loan Amounts.  Except  as the Bank may  otherwise  agree:

C. 

D. 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  a
dedicated account  designated  by  the Borrower  and acceptable  to the Bank; and
the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
this  account:  (i)  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget
management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the Bank;  and (ii)  a confirmation
in writing of such  operation  is  sent to the Bank.

E. 

Audit.  Upon the Bank's  request, the  Borrower  shall:

have  the  account  referred  to  in  Section  II.D.1  above  audited  by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
standards  acceptable  to the  Bank;

I. 

2. 

1. 

-7-

2. 

3. 

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in  any  case  not  later  than  four  (4)
months  after  the  date  of the  Bank's request  for  such audit,  a  certified  copy  of the
report  of such  audit,  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as the Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  the  account  referred  to  in
Section  II.D. 1 above  and its audit  as the Bank shall  reasonably  request.

F. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
not be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank determines  at any  time  that  an
amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  an  amount  equal  to  the
amount  of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  Bank  upon  such  request
shall be  cancelled.

G. 

Closing  Date.  The  Closing  Date is  December  31,  2015.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by
(b)  the  Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each  May  15  and  November  15

Beginning  May  15,  2021 
through  November  15,  2042

On  May  15,  2043 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

2.22%

2.32%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as of such date  in accordance  with paragraph  I of this  Schedule.
Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling after the date  of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by  the Bank by  multiplying the amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.
Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the  second  Principal  Payment  Date following the date of withdrawal.
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued

-9-

on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the Conversion  by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate  that reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines, the exchange  rate  component of the Screen  Rate.
If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency,  so  as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

- 10-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any  expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the
international 
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has financed  or agreed  to finance  under  another  loan, credit,  or grant;

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the  SITC),
or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated  by  the  Bank by  notice to  the  Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 
897 

971 

Sub-group 

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured,
tobacco  refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured  (whether
or  not containing tobacco
substitutes)
Radioactive  and  associated
materials
Pearls, precious  and  semiprecious
stones,  unworked or  worked
Nuclear  reactors,  and parts thereof;
fuel elements  (cartridges),  non-
irradiated,  for nuclear  reactors
Tobacco  processing machinery
Jewelry  of gold,  silver or platinum
group  metals (except  watches  and
watch  cases)  and  goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares  (including  set
gems)
Gold, non-monetary  (excluding
gold ores  and concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury

for  goods 
consumption;
for  environmentally  hazardous  goods, the  manufacture,  use  or  import  of which  is
prohibited  under  the  laws  of the  Borrower  or  international  agreements  to  which
the Borrower  is  a party;

- 11 -

2. 

3. 

4. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

(e) 

(f) 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the  United  Nations;
and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  address
such practices when  they  occur.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction  and
the

for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with 

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions 
modifications  set  forth in  Section  11  of this  Appendix.
"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  improve
skills,  productivity  and  quality  of  employment  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  letter
dated  July  15,  2014,  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment  to the execution  of the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from  the Bank  in
support  of the Program  during  its  execution.
"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of
Schedule  I to this Agreement.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the  General  Conditions

The modifications  to  the  General  Conditions  are  as  follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are  modified to reflect  the  modifications  set forth  in  the  paragraphs  below.

last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for

The 
Withdrawal)  is  deleted  in  its  entirety.
Sections  2.04  (Designated Accounts)  and 2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted in  their
entirety,  and the remaining  Sections  in  Article II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

Section  3.01.  (Front-end Fee) is  modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at the  rate
specified  in the  Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the  Unwithdrawn
Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment
Charge").  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the
date  of  the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective  dates  on  which  amounts  are
the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
withdrawn  by 

the  Borrower  from 

- 12-

Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

5. 

6. 

7. 

(Project  Execution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Sections  5.01 
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent  Sections  in
Article  V are  renumbered  accordingly.
Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above  and
relating to  Use of Goods,  Works and Services) is  deleted  in  its entirety.
Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified  to  read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain  all records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
... 
bills, receipts  and other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures  under the Loan  until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives  to  examine  such  records."

8. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified  to read  as  follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  prepare,  or cause  to be  prepared,  and  furnish
... 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of  such
scope  and  in  such  detail  as the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on the  execution  of
the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of
the purposes  of the Loan."

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as necessary,  to reflect the  modifications  set forth  above.
The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following definition
of "Commitment  Charge", and renumbering  the remaining  paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."
Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of  the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is modified  to  read  as  follows:

'Eligible  Expenditure'  means  any  use  to  which  the Loan  is  put  in  support  of the
"37. 
Program, other  than to finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of  the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is  deleted in its  entirety.

- 13  -

(c) 

The  term  "Project"  is  modified  to  read  "Program"  and  its  definition  is  modified
to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  "Project"  throughout  these  General
Conditions  are  deemed to be  references  to "Program"):

"'Program'  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of
which  the Loan  is  made."

In  paragraph  48  of  the  Appendix,  the  definition  of  "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by
replacing  the reference  to  Section 3.01  with  Section 3.01(a).

In  paragraph  67  of the  Appendix, the definition  of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified
to read as  follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"67. 
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but  not  limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."
In  paragraph  72  of  the  Appendix,  the  definition  of  "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by
deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after the
word "interest".
The  defined  term  "Project"  in  paragraph  75  of  the  Appendix  is  modified  to  read
is  modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to
"Program"  and  its  definition 
to
"Project" 
"Program"):

these  General  Conditions  are  deemed 

to  be  references 

throughout 

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of

"75. 
which the Loan  is made."

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

