OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS  ,

LOAN  NUMBER  8380-GE

Loan Agreement

(Second  Regional  and  Municipal  Infrastructure  Development  Project)

between

GEORGIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  PV6T-Sk 

, 2014

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8380-GE

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement dated 

,2014,  between  GEORGIA
("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower and the  Bank hereby  agree as  follows:

I 1; 

1,01. 

1.02. 

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

2.04. 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute an  integral  part of this Agreeient.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

the  context  requires  otherwise, 

Unless 
in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix to  this Agreement.

the  capitalized  terms  used 

ARTICLE  II-  LOAN

The  Bank  agrees to  lend to the  Borrower,  on  the terms  and conditions set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amounit of thirty  million  United  States  Dollars
(US$30,000,000),  as such amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement ("Loan"), to assist  in financing  the project described  in  Schedule  I to
this Agreement  ("Project").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  propeeds  of  the  Loan 
Section  IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borr6wer  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon a Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the  principal amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  ac  ordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains unpaid  when  due and  such non-
payment  continues  for  a period  of thirt'  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e) of the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The  Payment  Dates are  May  15  and November  15  in  each  year.

-2-

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization schedule set  forth  in  Schedule 3 to  this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request any  of the  following Conversions
of the  terms of the  Loan  in  Order  to  facilitate prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a change  of the  Loan Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the interest  rate  basis applicable  to:  (A)  all or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or  vice versa;  or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  pr1incipal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread to a Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Reference Rate and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C) all of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to  a Variable  Rate  based on  a Fixed Spread;  and  (iii) the
setting of limits on  the Varihble  Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the establishmnent  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate  !r the  Reference Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  porsuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this  Section  that
is accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c) of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated from  time to time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of the
General Conditions and the  Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall

-3-

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. 

4.02. 

5.01. 

5.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  qonsists  namely  of the  following,  that  the
Project 
Implementing  Entity's  Legitlation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so as  to offect  materially  and  adversely  the ability
of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the
Project  Agreement.

The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  namely  of the  following,  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is continuing  for a
period  of ninety  (90)  days after  notice of the event  has  been  given by  the  Bank to
the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

The Additional Conditions  of Effectivepess consist of the  following, namely  that,
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  by the  Ministry of Finance  and  the
Ministry  for Regional  Development  anil  Infrastructure  on  behalf of the Borrower
and  the Project Implementing  Entity.

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  namely  of  the  following,  that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  au.thorized  or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and
the Project  Implementing  Entity  and is legally  binding upon the  Borrower  and the
Project Implementing Entity in accordance  with  its terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after
the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is the  Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's Address  is:

Ministry of Finance
16 Gorgasali Street
0114 Tbilisi
Georgia

Facsimile:

995-32-2261461

-4-

6.03.  The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telbx: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

249423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Tbilisi,  Georgia, as  of the day and  year first  above  written.

GEORGIA

By

Author  dRepresentative

Name:00 

(X

Title: 

-k  ( 

\y  1(9

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  reliability  of

targeted  municipal services  and  infrastructure.

The  Project  consists of the  following parts:

Part  A:  Infrastructure Investment

1. 

Provision of financing:

(a) 

(b) 

on  a credit  basis, to  selected  LSGs to  finance Investment Subprojects  for
the  rehabilitation  and  expansion  of  priority  municipal  services  and
infrastructure  needs  on  a sustainable  basis;  through  the  carrying  out  of
works and provision of goods; and

on  a grant basis,  to  selected  L$Gs to  finance  Investment  Subprojects  for
selected  municipal  services  and 
infrastructure  projects,  through  the
carrying  out of works and provision of goods.

Preparation  of feasibility studies,  engineering  designs,  construction  supervision,
monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  for  Investment  Subprojects,  through  the
provision of consultants'  services and  Training.

Part  B:  Institutional  Development

Improving  the  institutional  capacity  and  performance  of  LSGs  in:  (a) asset
management  planning;  (b) project  cycle  management;  and  (c) fiscal  discipline
and  accounting,  through  the  provision  of  goods,  consultants'  services  and
Training.

the 

Improving 
institutional  capacity  and  performance  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in:  (a) technical appraisal;  (b) credit risk  management;  and
(c)  fiduciary  functions,  through 
the  provision  of  consultants'  services  and
Training.

2. 

I. 

2. 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  I 

Implementation  Arrangeoents

Institutional  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

including: 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the
Project  in  accordance  with  the  Operations  Manual  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  said
manual  to  provide  key  instruments  for  the  execution  and  coordination  of the
Project, 
(a)  procurement  and  financial  management  procedures;
(b) eligibility  criteria 
for  Participating  LSGs  and  Investment  Subprojects;
(c)  terms  and  conditions  for  Investment  Subproject  Financing;  (d) procurement
and 
the  requirements  and
procedures  for  carrying  out  the  Environmental  Screening  and  Environmental
Impact  Assessments  and  for  implementing  such  Environmental  Management
Plans  for  the  selected  Investment  Subprojects;  and  (f) the  staffing,  management
and  responsibilities  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

implementation  of  Investment  Subprojects; 

(e) 

For  the purpose  of ensuring  the  proper  coordination  and  execution  of the  Project,
the  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  supervisory  board  of the  Project  Implementing
Entity,  chaired  by  the  Prime  Minister  of Georgia.  The  functions  of said  Board
shall  include,  inter  alia:  (a)  overall  supervision  of  the  implementation  of  the
Project;  (b)  inter-agency  coordination  to  achieve  the  Project  objectives;  and  (c)
review  and  approval  of  the annual  work  programs'  budgets  and  reports  for  the
operation of the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

Subsidiary  Agreement

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds
of the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  on  a  non-refundable
basis,  under  a  subsidiary  agreement  between  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  the
Ministry  for Regional  Development  and  Infrastructure  on  behalf of the  Borrower
and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  under terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the
Bank  ("Subsidiary  Agreement").

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in such
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive 
the  Subsidiary
Agreement  or any of its  provisions.

-7-

C. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

D. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Implementing  Entity 

in  a  timely  manner  for  all 

The  Borrower shall  ensure  that all measures  necessary  for the  carrying out of an
Environmental  Screening, as  defined  in the  Operations  Manual,  shall be  taken  by
the  Project 
Investment
Subprojects,  and shall  cause the Project  Implementing  Entity to  include adequate
information  on 
the  carrying  out  of  such  measures  as  part  of  the  reporting
requirements  outlined  in  the Operations Manual.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  carry  out  the  Environmental  and  Social
Impact  Assessments  and  develop  the  Environmental  Management  Plans  in  a
timely  manner  for all  Investment  Subprojects  requiring  such  assessments  and/or
planning and shall provide and  maintain adequate  information on  the carrying out
of such  Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessments  and  implementing  such
Environmental  Management  Plans  as  part  of  the  supervision  responsibilities
referred 
For  Investment  Subprojects
determined 
to  be  eligible  for  financing  under  the  Project,  completion  of
Environmental  and  Social  Screening  and  preparation  and  disclosure  of,  and
stakeholder consultation on  the  Environmental  Management  Plan  satisfactory  to
the Bank shall  be required prior to commencement  of any works.

to  in  paragraph  A.]  of  this  Section. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  for  any  activity  to  be  undertaken  under  the
Project  involving  the  involuntary  acquisition  of  land  or  the  temporary  or
permanent  involuntary  resettlement  or displacement  of the  occupants or  owners
of  such  land,  a  Resettlement  Action  Plan  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  shall  be
prepared,  completed  and  fully  implemented  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
in  accordance  with 
the
commencement of any works.

the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  prior 

to 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  establish  and
implement,  throughout the Project implementation,  an  easily accessible grievance
redress  mechanism,  acceptable to the  Bank,  to  address  feedback  and  grievances
relating to the  Project as  set  forth  in the Operations  Manual.

2. 

3. 

Section  II 

Project Monitorine Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and
evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance
with the  provisions of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions and  on the basis  of

-8-

indicators acceptable  to  the Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period  of
one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one
month  after the end of the period covered  by such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to  be  maintained  a financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall cause  the Project Implementing  Entity  to prepare  and  furnish
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar
semester, 
interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the
semester,  in form  and substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  the  Project
Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.09
(b) of the General  Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover
the period  of one  fiscal  year of the Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements
for each  such period shall  be  furnished to  the  Bank not  later than six months  after
the end of such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting services required  for the  Project and  to be  financed out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines, and  with the provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All consultants'  services required  for  the Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the Consultant
Guidelines and with the provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in 
this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts refer  to the corresponding  method  described in  Sections 11  and  III of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections 
II,  Ill,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may  be.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on the basis  of International Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those contracts specified  in the  Procurement Plan:

Procurement  Method
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to  the additional  provisions  set forth

in  below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

"Open  competitive  procedures"  (i.e.  "public  tender")  shall  be
the  default  rule.  A single  envelope  procedure  shall  be  used  for
the submission  of goods, works, or  non-consulting services.

Invitations  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  at  least  one  widely
circulated  national  daily  newspaper  allowing  a  minimum  of
thirty  (30)  days  for  the  preparation  and  submission  of  bids.
Advertisements  published  in  foreign  language  newspapers  shall
be  in  compliance  with  such  a  30-day-minimum  in  number  of
days for bids preparation  and  submission.

Bidding  shall  not  be  restricted  to  pre-registered  firms. 
If
registration  is  required,  it  shall  not  be  denied  to  eligible  bidders
for  reasons  unrelated 
to
successfully  perform  the  contract  (e.g.,  mandatory  membership
in  professional  organizations, 
etc).  Post-
qualification  shall  be  conducted  to verify  that  the  bidder  has  the
capability  and resources  to  successfully  perform  the  contract.

to  their  capacity  and 

classification, 

resources 

Government-owned  enterprises  in  Georgia  shall  be  eligible  to
participate  in  bidding  only  if  they  can  establish  that  they  are
legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under  commercial
law  and  are  not  a  dependent  agency  of  the  Government.
Government-owned  enterprises  will  be  subject  to  the  same  bid
and  performance  security  requirements as other  bidders.

Procuring  entities  shall  use  the  appropriate  Bank's  sample
bidding  documents,  including  pre-qualification  documents,  for
the  procurement  of goods,  works,  or  non-consulting  services,

- 10 -

Procurement Method

and  such  documents  shall  contain  draft  contract  and conditions
of contract  including clauses on  fraud and  corruption,  audit and
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank.

Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline
for  submission  of  bids.  Bidder's  representatives  shall  be
permitted to attend  the bid opening.

Extension  of bid  validity  shall  be  allowed  once  only  for  not
more  than  thirty  (30)  days.  No  further  extensions  should  be
requested  without the  prior approval of the Bank.

in  monetary 

(viii)  Evaluation  of  bids  shall  be  based  on  quantifiable  criteria
expressed 
the  bidding
documents,  no  merit  point  system  and  no  domestic  preference
shall  be  used  in  the  evaluation  of  bids.  Contracts  shall  be
to  qualified  bidders  having  submitted  the 
awarded 
lowest
evaluated  substantially  responsive  bid  and no negotiations  shall
be  carried out prior to contract award.

terms  as  defined 

in 

Civil  works contracts  of long duration  (e.g.  more  than  eighteen
(18)  months)  shall  contain  an  appropriate  price  adjustment
clause.

No  bid shall  be  rejected  purely on  the  basis that the bid  price  is
higher than the estimated  budget  for that procurement.  All bids
shall  not  be rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  Bank's
prior concurrence.

(vi) 

(vii) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(b)  Shopping

(c)  Direct Contracting

C. 

I1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except as  otherwise provided  in paragraph
2  below, consultants'  services shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used 
for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:

Procurement Method

(a) 

Quality-Based  Selection

Selection under a  Fixed  Budget

Least Cost  Selection

Selection Based  on Consultants'  Qualifications

Single-Source Selection  of consulting  firms

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs  5.1-5.5  of the Consultant  Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants

(g) 

Single-source  procedures  for the  Selection of Individual Consultants

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject to  the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All other contracts  shall  be  subject to  Post  Review by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions), to  finance Eligible  Expenditures  as set
forth  in  the table  in  paragraph 2 below.

The  following table specifies the categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category,

A. 

I. 

2. 

-12-

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

Category 
(1) Goods  and  works,  under:

(a)  Part A.I(a)  of the 

12.925,000 

13,000,000 

40%

85%

Project

Project

(b)  Part A.1(b)  of the

2.000,000 

80%

services, 
(2)  Consultants' 
Training  and 
Incremental
Operating  Costs  under  Part
A.2 of the Project

consultants' 
(3)  Goods, 
services  and  Training  under
Part  B of the Project

2,000,000 

22.8%

(4) Front-end  Fee 

75,000 

payable
Amount 
pursuant  to  Section  2.03
of  this  Agreement 
in
accordance  with  Section
2.07  (b) of the  General
Conditions

(5) 
Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate  Collar premium 

0 

Amount  due  pursuant  to
Section  2.07(c)  of  this
Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT

B. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

I1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section, no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  $3,000,000 equivalent may
be  made  for payments  made  prior  to  this date  but  on  or  after  April  1, 2014,  for
Eligible  Expenditures under Categories  (1) and (2).

2. 

The Closing  Date is June 30,  2019.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date, such  repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 
On  each  May  15  and November  15

Beginning  November  15,  2024 
through  November  15,  2038
On May  15,  2039 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

3.33%

3.43%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the  Frst  Principal  Payment  Date, 
the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
withdrawal 
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share specified  in  the table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion applies.

- 14-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on  or after the respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component of the  Screen  Rate.

If the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in  more than  one Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

4. 

5. 

- 15-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and Grants",  dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January 2011.

"Category"  means a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in Section  IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

"Co-financier"  means  Swiss Agency  for Development  and  Cooperation.

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  16  of the  Appendix  to  the
General  Conditions,  an  amount  of  five  million  United  States  Dollars  to  be
provided  by the  Co-financier to assist  in  financing the Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be entered  into  between  the
Borrower  and  the Co-financier providing  for the Co-financing.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Environmental  and  Social  Screening"  means  a  mandatory  review  of  all
proposed  Investment  Subprojects  undertaken  with  the  purpose  of categorizing
them  by  expected  environmental  risks  and 
impacts,  filtering  out  proposals
grossly  detrimental  for  the  environment,  identifying  a  need  for  preparing  a
Resettlement  Action  Plan  and  determining  appropriate  extent  and 
type  of
Environmental  and  Social  Assessment 
Investment
Subprojects  accepted  for further  processing.

to  be  applied 

the 

to 

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment"  or "ESIA"  means a study carried
out  for the  selected  Investment  Subprojects  to  identify and  assess  their  potential
environmental  impacts, evaluate  alternatives,  and  design  appropriate  mitigation,
management,  and monitoring measures.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or "EMP"  means  a document  developed for
an  Investment  Subproject (as  hereinafter  defined),  which  details the  measures  to
be  taken  during  its  implementation  and  operation  to  eliminate  or offset adverse
environmental  impacts,  or  to  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  as  well  as  the
actions needed  to  implement these measures.

- 16-

10. 

I 1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in Section  11 of this Appendix.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  and  necessary  incremental
expenses  incurred  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  with  respect  to  Project
implementation,  management  and monitoring,  including the costs of support staff
salaries (excluding  salaries of the  Borrower's  civil service staff). communication,
editing,  printing and  publication,  translation,  vehicle operation  and  maintenance,
bank charges, local  travel costs and  field trip expenses, office rentals,  utilities and
supplies, based on  a semi-annual  budget agreed  with the Bank.

"Investment  Financing  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  entered  into  between  a
Participating  LSG  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  for  the  purposes  of the
Project, in accordance  with the provisions of the Operations Manual,

"Investment  Subproject"  means  an  eligible  subproject  to  be  carried  out  for  the
benefit  of a Participating LSG  (as  hereinafter  defined),  utilizing the proceeds  of
Investment  Subproject Financing (as  hereinafter defined).

-Investment  Subproject  Financing"  means  a financing  made  or  proposed  to  be
made  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (as
hereinafter defined),  for an  Investment  Subproject.

"Lari"  means the  lawful  currency of the  Borrower.

"Ministry  of  Finance"  means 
successor thereto.

the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance  or  any

"Ministry  of Regional  Development  and  Infrastructure"  means  the  Borrower's
Ministry of Regional  Development  and  infrastructure or any  successor thereto.

"Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual  prepared  by  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  (as  hereinafter  defined)  dated  March  31,  2014:  (a)  specifying  the
financial,  administrative,  engineering,  environmental  and  social
managerial, 
policies  and  procedures  of  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  (as  hereinafter
defined) for the execution  of the Project  and the eligibility criteria for selection of
Investment  Subproject(s)  and  Participating  LSG(s) (as  hereinafter  defined);  and
(b)  including  the  "Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  which
the  carrying  out  of  the
provides 
Environmental  and  Social  Screening,  and  Environmental  and  Social  Impact
Assessments  and the preparation  of the Environmental  Management  Plans for the
respective  selected  Investment  Subproject  under  the  Project,  as  such  Operations
Manual  may  be amended  from time  to time with the  agreement of the Bank.

the  requirements  and  procedures 

for 

17-

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23, 

24. 

25. 

"Participating  LSG"  mean  the  Local  Self Government  established  and  operating
of
under  Organic  Law 
February  5,  2014,  on  Local  Self-Government,  which  have  been  selected  for  the
carrying  out  of  Investment  Subproject(s)  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  in
accordance  with  the eligibility criteria set forth in  the Operations Manual.

(Local  Self-Government  Code)  No.  1958-11-b 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA Credits  and Grants  by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  procurement  plan
for  the  Project,  dated  March  19,  2014  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the
Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines, as  the
same  shall  be updated from  time to time  in accordance with  the provisions  of said
paragraphs.

Implementing  Entity"  means 

the  Municipal  Development  Fund
"Project 
established  pursuant  to Presidential  Decree  No. 294  of the  President  of Georgia,
dated  June 7, 1997,  as amended to date.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means the  Charter of the  Municipal
Development Fund  established pursuant to  Decree  No.  118  of the Government  of
Georgia dated July  23,  2005,  as amended  to date.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or "RAP"  means a  resettlement  action  plan  for a site
in  a  manner  fully
specific  resettlement; 
consistent  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  and  "Resettlement  Action
Plans"  means said  Plans, collectively.

to  be  prepared  and  implemented 

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  resettlement  policy  framework,
the  Bank,  dated  March  24,  2014,  prepared  by  the  Project
satisfactory  to 
Implementing  Entity  and  setting  forth,  inter  alia: (i)  the  description  of areas
covered  by  the  Project;  (ii)  the  legal  basis  and  screening  process  for  land
acquisition, resettlement  and  land  use in connection with  works  and construction
activities to  be  carried  out under  the  Project;  (iii) the resettlement  principles and
entitlements  of Project  affected  people  based  on  different  categories  of impact;
(iv)  the  procedures  for valuation,  compensation  and  other  assistance  provided to
the  affected  people,  including the  grievance  process;  and (v)  the  responsibilities,
procedures  and  requirements  for  the  development  and  implementation  of site
specific Resettlement Action Plans.

26. 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section 
.B  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds of the  Loan available to  the Project  Implementing  Entity.

27. 

"Training"  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in
connection  with  carrying  out  training  activities  under  Part  B  of  the  Project,
including  travel  costs  and per diem  for  local  trainees,  study  tours,  workshops,
conferences,  and  non-degree  fellowships,  rental  of  facilities  and  equipment  and
training  materials  and  related  supplies  based  on  a  semi-annual  budget  agreed
with the Bank.

