OfFlAL

,0CUMEN

CTF LOAN  NUMBER  TF016957-IN

Clean Technology  Fund
Loan Agreement

(Development  Policy  Loan  to  Promote  Inclusive  Green  Growth and  Sustainable
Development  in Himachal  Pradesh)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

acting as  an  implementing entity  of the Clean  Technology  Fund

Dated 

\\ 

,2014

CTF LOAN  NUMBER  TF016957-IN

CLEAN  TECHNOLOGY FUND  LOAN  AGREEMENT

t 

,  2014,  entered 

AGREEMENT  dated 

into  between
INDIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("World  Bank"),  acting not  in  its  individual  capacity  but solely  in  its
capacity  as  an  implementing  entity  of  the  Clean  Technology  Fund  ("CTF"),  for  the
purpose of providing  financing  in  support of the  Program  (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to
this  Agreement).  The  World  Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis,
inter  alia, of:  (a)  the  actions  which  Himachal  Pradesh  has  already  taken  under  the
Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I of Schedule  to  the  Program  Agreement;
and  (b)  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.
The  Borrower and  the  Bank therefore  hereby  agree as  follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral part of this  Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the Standard  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

Article  II
Loan

2.01. 

The  World  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and  conditions  set
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  million  United
States Dollars ($100,000,000)  ("Loan").

2.02.  The Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program

in  accordance  with  Section  I of Schedule  I to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Loan  is  funded  out of the  resources  made  available  to  the World  Bank  as  an
implementing  entity  of the  CTF.  In  accordance  with  Section  3.02  of the  Standard
Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement),  the  World  Bank's
payment  obligations  in  connection  with this Agreement  are  limited  to the amount  of
funds  made  available  to  it  from  the  CTF  trust  fund,  and  the  Borrower's  right  to
withdraw  the Loan proceeds  is subject to  the availability  of such  funds.

2.04. 

The  Management  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower,  pursuant  to  Section  4.01(a)  of
the  Standard  Conditions,  shall  be  equal  to  forty-five  one  hundredth  of  one

percent  (0.45%)  of the  Loan.  The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Management  Fee  not
later than 60 days after the Effective  Date.

2.05. 

The  Service  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  on  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
shall  be  equal to  one-fourths  of one percent  (1/4  of 1%)  per annum.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are April  15  and October  15  in  each  year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

repayment  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2.08.  The Payment Currency  is USD.

Article HIl
The Program

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation
through  GoHP.  To  this  end,  and  further  to  Section  2.06  of  the  Standard
Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  shall  from  time  to time,  at the  request
of either  party,  exchange  views  on the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework  and  the  progress achieved  in  carrying  out the Program;

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
World  Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress
achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  World  Bank
shall  reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  World  Bank  of  any
situation  that would have  the effect of materially  reversing  the objectives
of the  Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program  including  any
action  specified  in the Schedule  to  the Program  Agreement.

Article IV
Remedies  of the World Bank

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  a
situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a
significant  part of it,  will be carried  out.

4.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for a

-2-

period  of 30  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

Article V
Effectiveness;  Termination

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists of the following, namely,  that
the  World  Bank  is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved  by  the  GoHP  in  carrying
out the Program,  and  with the adequacy of the  Borrower's macroeconomic  policy
framework.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement.

Article  VI
Borrower's Representative;  Addresses

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  referred  to  in  Section  10.02  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is  any  of  the  following:  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint
Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary,  or  under  Secretary  of  the  Department  of
Economic Affairs  in the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of the Standard  Conditions

is:

Department  of Economic  Affairs
Ministry  of Finance,
Government  of India
North  Block
New  Delhi  110  001
India

Facsimile:

+91-11-23095145

6.03. 

The  World  Bank's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

-3-

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  N 

India,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above

written.

Autli6jile  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
acting  as an implementing  entity of the
Clean  Technology  Fund

Authorized  Representative

INDIA

By

Name:

Title:

By

Name:

Title:

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  1. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

B. 

C. 

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  World
Bank  may specify by  notice  to the  Borrower.

On-lending  Arrangements:  To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of the  Program,  the
borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to  Himachal  Pradesh  in
for  development
the  Borrower's  standard  arrangements 
accordance  with 
assistance  to the States  of India.

Allocation  of Loan Amounts.  The  Loan (except  for amounts  required  to pay the
Management  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to this end  is  set  out  in the table  below:

Allocations 

(1) 

(2) 

Single  Withdrawal 
Tranche

Management  Fee 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount  of the Loan
(expressed  in  USD)

99,550,000

450,000

100,000,000

D. 

Withdrawal  Tranche Release  Conditions

No withdrawal  shall be made  of the  Single Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the World
Bank  is  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being  carried  out  by  the  Borrower  and
GoHP;  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

E. 

Deposits  of Loan Amounts.  Except  as the  World  Bank may  otherwise agree:

1. 

2. 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall be  deposited  by  the  World
Bank  into  an  account  designated  by  the Borrower  and  acceptable  to the
World  Bank; and

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of the
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the

-5-

Borrower's  budget  management  system,  in  a manner  acceptable  to  the
World  Bank.

F. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of the
Loan  shall  not  be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If  the  World  Bank
determines  at  any time that  an amount  of the  Loan was  used to make  a payment
for an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly  upon  notice  from  the
World  Bank,  refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of such  payment  to  the
World  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  World  Bank  upon  such  request  shall  be
cancelled.

G. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date  is November  30, 2014.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Repayment  Schedule

Date Payment Due 

On each April  15 and  October  15:

Commencing  October  15,  2024 to and 
including  April  15,  2034
commencing October  15,  2034 to and 
including April  15,  2054

Principal Amount of  the Loan
Repayable
expressed  as a  ercentage

1%

2%

-7-

APPENDIX

Section 

. Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

"Action  Plan  on  Climate  Change"  means  the  State  Strategy  &  Action  Plan  on
Climate  Change  - Himachal  Pradesh  2012,  prepared  by  the  Department  of
Environment,  Science  &  Technology  of Himachal  Pradesh,  as  disclosed  in  the
website:  http://www.himachal.gov.in/Environment.

"AGiSAC"  means  the  Aryabhatta  Geo-Informatics  &  Space  Application  Center
established  under  the  aegis  of the  State  Council  for  Science,  Technology  and
Environment  of Himachal Pradesh.

"Block"  means  a  district  subdivision  of  Himachal  Pradesh  comprised  of
Panchayats (village  council)  and town  municipalities,  as the case  may be.

"Cash  Transfers"  means  the  cash  transfers  to  be  paid  on  annual  basis  to  Eligible
Beneficiaries  out  of  the  respective  Local  Area  Development  Fund,  and  to  be
funded  through  the  contribution  of  1% of  the  revenues  generated  from  the
additional  free  power  components  of  hydropower  projects,  for  the  lifespan  of
such  projects,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  set  forth  in  the  Guidelines  for  the
Management  of Local  Areas  Development  Funds.

"Eligible  Beneficiaries"  means,  collectively,  residents  in  hydropower  project
for  the  Management  of  Local  Area
areas  as  defined 
Development Funds.

the  Guidelines 

in 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means  any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or agency  other than  the  IBRD  or  IDA
has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  IBRD  or  IDA  has
financed  or  agreed to  finance  under another  loan,  credit,  or grant;

for goods  included  in the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  World  Bank  by  notice  to the
Borrower:

-8-

Group 
112 
121 

Sub-group 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 

897 

971 

718.7 

728.43 

897.3 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-
manufactured,  tobacco
refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether or  not containing
tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and  associated
materials
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and parts
thereof;  fuel elements
(cartridges),  non-
irradiated,  for nuclear
reactors
Tobacco  processing
machinery
Jewelry  of gold,  silver or
platinum  group  metals
(except watches  and watch
cases) and  goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding  gold  ores and
concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for  environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the  manufacture,  use  or  import  of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
is  a  party,  and  any  other  goods
agreements  to  which  the  Borrower 
designated  as  environmentally  hazardous  by  agreement  between  the
Borrower  and  the World  Bank;

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United
Nations  Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the Charter  of the
United Nations;  and

with  respect 
fraudulent,  collusive  or  coercive  practices  were  engaged 

the  World  Bank  determines 

to  which 

that  corrupt,
in  by

-9-

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,
without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and
to  the  World  Bank  to  address  such
appropriate  action  satisfactory 
practices  when they  occur.

"GoHP"  means  the  government  of the  State  of Himachal  Pradesh  (as  hereinafter
defined).

"Guidelines  for  the  Management  of Local  Areas  Development  Fund"  means  the
guidelines  approved  by the Himachal  Pradesh,  pursuant to Notification  No  MPP-
F (10)-24/2011,  dated  October  5, 2011.

"Himachal  Pradesh" means the Borrower's  State of Himachal  Pradesh.

"HP  Water  Policy-2005"  means  the  Himachal  Pradesh  Water  Policy-2005
approved  by  Himachal  Pradesh's Department  of Irrigation  and  Public  Health.

"HP  Water  Policy-2013"  means  the  Himachal  Pradesh  Water  Policy-2013
approved  by  the  Chief  Secretary  of  GoHP,  pursuant  to  Notification  No.  IPH-
B(F)1-3/2013,  dated  November  18,  2013.

"IWMP  Guidelines"  means  Himachal  Pradesh's  Operational  Guidelines  of
Integrated  Watershed  Management  Program  2013.

"Local  Area  Development  Fund"  means  each  fund  for  sharing  of benefits  from
to
hydropower  developments 
such  fund  in  accordance  with  and  for  the  purposes  and  uses  set  out  in  the
Guidelines  for the Management  of Local  Areas  Development  Fund.

involving  contribution  by  developers/operators 

"Micro  Watershed  Development  Plans"  means  each  plan  for  community  based
integrated  watershed  management  at the Block  level.

"Negative  List"  means  the  list  of  industries  contained  in  Annexure  Ill  of the
Himachal  Pradesh's  Rules  Regarding  Grant  of  incentives,  Concessions  and
Facilities  to  industrial  units  in  Himachal  Pradesh  (2004),  as  amended  up  to
February  7,  2009.
"Program"  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  July  20,  2012  from  the  GoHP  to  the  World  Bank
declaring  the  Himachal  Pradesh's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the  Program,
and  requesting  assistance  from  the  World Bank  in  support of the Program  during
its execution.

- 10-

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

"Program  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  World  Bank  and
Himachal  Pradesh  of even  date herewith,  as  the same  may  be  amended  from time
to  time.

"Sutlej"  means the easternmost  tributary  of the Indus river.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in the  table  set  forth  in  Part  C  of
Section  I of Schedule  I to this  Agreement.

"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Loans  Made  by  the
World  Bank  Out of the Climate  Investment  Funds,  dated February  18,  2014, with
the modifications  set forth  in  Section  II  of this Appendix.

"Sustainable  Tourism  Development  Policy-2013"  means  the  tourism  policy
approved  by  Himachal  Pradesh  in 2013  vide  letter No.  TSM -F(1)-2/2013,  dated
November  19,  2013  from  Himachal  Pradesh's  Department  of Tourism  and  Civil
Aviation.

22. 

"Tourism  Policy-2005"  means  the tourism  policy  approved  in  2005  by Himachal
Pradesh,  Department of Tourism and  Civil Aviation.

Section  II.  Modifications  to  the Standard Conditions

The  modifications  to the  Standard  Conditions  are as follows:

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.01  (Project Execution  Generally) is  deleted  in  its
renumbered
entirety,  and 
accordingly.

the  remaining  paragraphs 

that  Section  are 

in 

Paragraph  (a) of Section  2.04  (relating  to  Use of Goods, Works  and Services) is
deleted  in its  entirety, and  purposely  left in blank.

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  2.05  is  modified to read as follows:

"Section  2.05.  Documents; Records

(c) 

all records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,  bills,  receipts  and
... 
other  documents)  are  retained  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date;
and"

4. 

The  title and paragraph  (c)  of Section  2.06  are modified  to read  as  follows:

Section  2.06. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

-1l-

(c) 

prepare  and deliver to the  World Bank, not  later than  six
the  Closing  Date,  one  or  more  completion  reports
months  after 
("Completion  Reports")  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  World
Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on  the  execution  of the  Program,  the
performance  by the  Borrower, the Guarantor, the Program  Implementing
Entity  and  the  World  Bank,  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the
Legal  Agreements  and the accomplishment  of the purposes  of the Loan.

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Section 2.07  (Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits) is  deleted  in
its entirety,  and purposely  left blank.
The  last  sentence  of paragraph  (c)  of  Section  3.04  (relating  to Applications for
Withdrawal)  is deleted  in its entirety.
Sections 3.05  (Designated Accounts) and 3.06  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted
in their entirety,  and purposely  left blank.
The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in
alphabetical  order  to  the Appendix  as  follows,  with the  terms  being  renumbered
accordingly:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The definition  of the  term  "Eligible  Expenditure"  is  modified  to  read  as
follows:
"  'Eligible  Expenditure'  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded
pursuant to the Loan  Agreement."
The  term  "Financial  Statements"  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their
entirety.
The  term  "Project"  is  modified  to  read  "Program"  and  its  definition  is
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  "Project"  throughout
the  Standard Conditions  are  deemed to be references  to "Program"):
"  'Program'  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in
support  of which the Loan  is made."

(d) 

term 

"Project  Agreement" 

read  "Program
The 
Agreement",  and  all  reference  to  "Project  Agreement  throughout  the
Standard  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to  the  "Program
Agreement".

is  modified 

to 

- 12-

(e) 

The  term  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  is  modified  to  read  "Program
Implementing  Entity",  and  its  definition  is  modified  to  read  as  follows
(and  all  references  to  the  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  throughout  the
Standard  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to  the  "Program
Implementing  Entity"):

'Program  Implementing  Entity'  means  a  legal  entity  (other  than  the
Borrower  or the  Guarantor)  which  is  responsible  for implementing  all  or
part of the  Project  and  which  is a  party to the  Program  Agreement.  If the
Bank  enters  into  a  Program  Agreement  with  more  than  one  such  entity,
'Program  Implementing Entity'  refers  separately  to each  such entity."

(f) 

The term  "Project  Implementing  Entity's  Representative"  is  modified  to
read  "Program  Implementing  Entity's Representative",  and  its definition
is  modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  the  "Project
the  Standard
Implementing  Entity's  Representative" 
Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to  the  "Program  Implementing
Entity's  Representative"):

throughout 

'Program  Implementing  Entity's  Representative'  means  the  Program
the  Program

specified 

in 

representative 
Implementing  Entity's 
Agreement  for purposes of Section  10.02."

(g) 

The  term  "Project  Reports"  is  modified  to  read  "Program  Reports",  and
its  definition  is  modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  the
"Project  Reports"  throughout  the  Standard  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be
references to the "Program  Reports"):

'Program  Reports'  means  each  report  on  the  Program  to  be  prepared

and  furnished  to the World Bank for purpose  of Section  2.06(b)(i)."

- 13-

