OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8494-GE

Loan Agreement

(Third Regional Development Project)

between

GEORGIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2015

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8494-GE

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

,2015,
FOR
'and 
between  GEORGIA 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the
Bank hereby agree  as  follows.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

("Borrower") 

-, 

* 

ARTICLE I-  GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part of this  Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02. 

Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used 
in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or
in  the Appendix to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  H - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of sixty  million  Dollars
(US$60.000.000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section
2.08  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"), to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described
in  Schedule  I  to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of
one  percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04. 

2.05. 

The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one
quarter  of  one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on 
the  Unwithdrawn  Loan
Balance.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a
rate  equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable
Spread,  provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable by  the  Borrower  during the
Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with
the 
the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing, 
if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a
period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead
be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section 3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

relevant  provisions  of  Article 

IV  of 

2.06 

he  Payment  Dates  are  June  15  and  December  15  in  each year

2.07 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule set  forth  in  Schedule 3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the 
following
Conversions  of  the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent
debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or
unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency:  (ii) a change  of the  interest
rate  basis applicable  to:  (A) all or any portion  of the  principal amount
of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a
Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable
Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread,  or
vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn
and outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread,  and  (iii) the  setting  of limits
on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest
Rate Collar  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section
that  is accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as
in
defined 
IV  of  the  General
accordance  with 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected 

the  provisions  of  Article 

in 

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
in
itself  the  amounts 
accordance  with Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in
Section  IV of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

to  pay  any  premium  payable 

required 

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective of the  Project.  To
this end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of the
General  Conditions and the  Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,
and  except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,  the  Borrower
shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance with  the  provisions
of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

4.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  namely  of  the  following,  that
the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect,  materially  and  adversely,  the
ability  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations
under  the  Project Agreement.

The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  namely  of the  following,  that
is
the  event  specified 
continuing  for  a period  of ninety  (90) days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been
given  by the  Bank to the  Borrower.

in  Section  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  and 

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  by  the  Ministry  of
and
the  Ministry 
Finance 
the  Project
Infrastructure  on  behalf  of 
Implementing  Entity.

for  Regional  Development 
the  Borrower  and 

and 

The  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  adopted  the  Operation  Manual,
in  form  and  substance.  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of namely  of  the  following,  that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower
is  legally  binding  upon  the
and 
Borrower  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  its  terms.

the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and 

5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days

after  the date  of this Agreement.

-31-

ARTICLE  VI  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Finance
16  Gorgasali Street
0114  Tbilisi
Georgia

Facsimile:

995-32-2262423

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington.  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Tbilisi. Georgia, as of the day and  year first  above written.

GEORGIA

By

By

Authorized  Representative

) 

rz  f

Name: 

Title: 

( 

'k 

/

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT

Authorizd  epresentative

Name:-

Title:  Qj V, 

C]6 

i& 

/fc2'-p

SCHEDULE  I

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project 

is  to 

institutional  capacity  to  support 
economy of the  Samtskhe-Javakheti  and  Mtskheta-Mtianeti  regions.

increased  contribution  of  tourism 

improve  infrastructure  services  and
the  local

in 

The Project  consists of the following  parts:

Part  I 

Infrastructure  Investment

(a) 

Provision  of  Investment  Subproject  Financing,  on  a  grant  basis.  to
Participating  LSGs to  finance  Investment  Subprojects  for  urban  regeneration  of old
towns  and  villages 
regions
including,  but  not limited  to,  restoration  of building  facades  and  roofs, public  spaces,
museums,  roads  and  water  supply,  and  enhancement  of cultural  and  natural  heritage
sites (as well  as  tourism  facilities and  access  to  and presentation  of sites).

the  Samtskhe-Javakheti  and  Mtskheta-Mtianeti 

in 

(b) 

Provision  of  Investment  Subproject  Financing,  on  a  grant  basis,  to
Participating  LSGs  to  finance  Investment  Subprojects  for  the  creation  of  public
infrastructure  to  attract  private  sector  investments  in  tourism  or agribusiness  in  the
Samtskhe-Javakheti  and  Mtskheta-Mtianeti  regions  including,  but  not  limited  to
construction  of roads,  sidewalks,  and  water,  sanitation,  communications  and  public
facilities.

Part 2:  Institutional  Development

Provision  of  goods,  non-consultant  services,  consultants' 

services,  and
Training,  as  well  as  financing  of Operating Costs  to  enhance  the  institutional  capacity
and  performance  of  GNTA,  NACHP,  Georgia  National  Museum. 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  and  other  concerned  local  and  regional  entities  to  carry  out
activities including  the  following:

(a) 

Setting  up  of a  destination  management  office  in  each  of the  regions
of  Samtskhe-Javakheti  and  Mtskheta-Mtianeti 
in  the  creation  of  an
institutional  framework  to  ensure  proper  destination  management,  public-private-
partnership  and  sustainability  of investments  made  in  each  region.

to  assist 

(b) 

Development  and  implementation  of marketing  and  promotion  tools
in  each  of  the  Samtskhe-Javakheti  and  Mtskheta-Mtianeti  regions  to  promote  each
region  as  a  new  sustainable  tourism  destination  and  to  assist  in  creating  a mechanism
for  community  participation,  stakeholders'  consultation  and  involvement  of  local
government  in developing  tourism  in  the region.

Preparation  of sustainable  site  management  plans for  cultural  heritage
sites  financed  under  the Project  as well  as provision  of on-the job  training  to NACHP.

(c) 

-6-

(d) 

Provision  of  Training 

for  skilled  workforce  development  and
capacity  building  to  selected  beneficiaries  (including  hotel  staff, tour  operators  and
guides.  and  officials  at  the  GNTA,  NACHP,  Georgia  National  Museum  and  the
integrated  workforce
Project 
development  program  around  the  skills  needed  in  tourism-related  businesses  in  the
Samtskhe-Javakheti  and Mtskheta-Mtianeti  regions.

Implementing  Entity)  aimed  at  producing  an 

(e) 

Provision  of cultural  heritage  advisory  services  to the  NACHP  aimed
at:  (i)  overseeing  the  preparation  process  of  Mtskheta  World  Heritage  Site  master
plan,  in  compliance  with  the  World  Heritage Committee's  decisions;  (ii) establishing
advisory  service  on  the  World  Heritage  Sites  Tentative  List  for  Georgia  and
providing  assistance  to  NACHP  in  preparing  nomination  files  for  inscription;  (iii)
providing  on-the-job  capacity  building  to  NACHP  and  municipalities  on  cultural
heritage  preservation  and  site management  plans; and  (iv)  promoting  cultural  heritage
as  an  unique  tourism  product  in  both the  national  tourism  strategy  and  the  global  Silk
Road  initiative  (which  initiative  is  being  led  by  the  United  Nations  World  Tourism
Organization  to  revive the historical  silk route).

(f) 

Provision  of business  start-up/expansion  advisory  service  to  tourism
their  business

and  agribusiness  medium  and  small  enterprises 
development  capacity,  and  build  credit with  local and  national  financial  institutions.

to  enhance 

(g) 

Enhancing  capacity  for  performance  monitoring  and  evaluation
in  the  tourism  sector  in  the  Samtskhe-Javakheti  and  Mtskheta-Mtianeti
activities 
regions  (including,  designing  and  conducting  seasonal  surveys  to  determine  the
number  and  origin  of  visitors,  spending  activities,  and  satisfaction 
levels,  and
gathering  baseline  data  from  both  formal  and  informal  tourism  enterprises)  and
introduce  ways  to  monitor  the  effectiveness  of  efforts  as  well  as  monitoring  the
Project's  results  indicators annually.

(h) 

Provision  of technical  assistance  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
for  outreach  and  public  awareness  campaigns,  preparation  of  feasibility  studies  of
potential  Investment  Subprojects,  and  design  and  construction  supervision  and
financing  of Operating  Costs.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

shall  maintain 

The  Borrower 
the  Supervisory  Board  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  chaired  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Georgia,  with
responsibilities 
(a) overall  supervision  of  the
implementation  of the  Project;  (b) inter-agency  coordination  to  achieve  the
Project  objective;  and (c) review  and  approval  of the  annual  work programs'
budgets and  reports  for the operation  of the  Project Implementing  Entity.

inter  alia: 

including 

2. 

The  Borrower shall cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

prepare, 
in  accordance  with  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  an  operation  manual  ("Operation  Manual")  setting  out  the
operational  and  administrative  procedures  for Project  implementation
including:  (i) procurement  and  financial  management  procedures;
(ii) eligibility criteria  for  the  selection  of Investment  Subprojects  in
Investment
Participating  LSGs;  (iii) terms  and  conditions 
implementation  of
Subproject  Financing, 
and
Investment  Subprojects; 
(vi)
responsibilities  of 
implementation  of the  ESMF:  (vii) implementation  of the  RPF;  and
(viii) establishment  and 
redress
mechanism;

staffing,  management 
Implementing  Entity; 

implementation  of  a  grievance 

(v)  the 
the  Project 

(iv)  procurement  and 

for 

carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an  Operation  Manual  that
has  been  approved by  the  Bank;  and

furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its  prior  approval.  any  proposed  amendment
to  the  provisions  of the  Operation  Manual  and,  thereafter,  put  into
effect such amendment  as  shall have been  agreed with  the  Bank.

B. 

1 .

2. 

Subsidiary  Agreement

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  available to the  Project  Implementing  Entity, on  a grant
basis,  pursuant  to  a subsidiary  agreement  to  be  signed  by  the  Borrower,
through  MOF  and  MRDI,  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  with  terms
and  conditions approved  by the  Bank  ("Subsidiary Agreement").

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations under  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except
as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,

-8-

abrogate,  waive,  fail to  enforce or terminate  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or any
of its provisions.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

D. 

Safeguards

Environmental  Management

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the
following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(i)  Implement  the  ESMF  (including,  carrying  out  Environmental,
Social  and  Cultural  Resource  Screenings,  as  well  as  Environmental
and  Social  Review,  as  required)  and  the  environmental  management
plans  prepared  pursuant  thereto,  all  in  a manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank  and  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in
accordance  with  sound  environmental  practices  and  standards,  and
(ii)  prior to  initiation of the procurement  of works  concerned,  prepare
and  disclose,  and  carry  out  stakeholder  consultation  on, 
the
the  Bank  and
environmental  management  plan  satisfactory  to 
thereafter,  said  EMP  shall  be  submitted along  with  the  draft  bidding
documents  for  the  procurement  of said  works  and  form  part  of the
tender documents.

Provide  to  the  Bank  for  its  prior review  any  revision  proposed  to  be
introduced  into  any  of the  ESMF  or  EMPs,  as  the  case  may  be,  in
order  to  achieve  their  respective  objectives, and  thereafter  introduce
such  revision  into  the  documents  as shall  have  been  agreed  with the
Bank.

Maintain  policies and  procedures adequate  to enable  it to  monitor and
evaluate,  in  accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  the
implementation  of  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management
Framework  and  EMPs  and  the  achievement  of  their  respective
objectives.

Resettlemeni

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the
following:

(a) 

(i)  Wherever 
implementation  of  the  Project,  any 
Investment
Subproject,  or  any part  thereof, would  give  rise  to  Affected  Persons,
provide to  the Bank  for  its  review, resettlement  action  plans  prepared
in  accordance  with the  principles and  procedures  set forth  in  the  RPF

and,  thereafter,  implement  in  a manner  satisfactory to  the  Bank.  such
resettlement  action plans  as  shall  have  been  accepted  by  the  Bank  as
being  satisfactory;  and  (ii)  works  on  any  specific  Project  site  that
give  rise  to  Affected  Persons shall  not commence  until  the  respective
RAP  is fully  implemented  in  a  manner  satisfactory to the  Bank.

Provide  to  the  Bank  for  its prior  review,  any  revision  proposed  to  be
introduced  into  the  RPF  or  RAP,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  achieve  the
respective  document's  objectives,  and 
introduce  such
revision  into such document  as  shall  have  been agreed  with the  Bank.

thereafter 

Maintain policies  and procedures adequate  to enable  it to  monitor and
evaluate,  in  accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the
implementation  of the  RPF  and  RAPs,  and  the  achievement  of their
respective  objectives.

3. 

4. 

Grievance Redress Mechanism

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  establish  and
implement,  throughout  the  Project  implementation,  an  easily  accessible
grievance  redress  mechanism,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  address  feedback
and grievances relating  to  the  Project as  set  forth  in  the Operation  Manual.

International Waterways

The  Borrower  shall  cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure,  when
any  activity  under  an  Investment  Subproject  will  involve  any  international
waterway  (as  defined in the  Bank's  Operational  Policy  7.50),  that:

such  activity shall  be  limited  to  ongoing  schemes, projects  involving
additions  or  alterations  that  require  rehabilitation,  construction,  or
other  changes  that:  (i)  will  not  adversely  change  the  quality  or
quantity  of  water  flows  to  the  other  riparian;  and  (ii)  will  not  be
adversely affected  by the other riparian's  possible  water use;  and

such  activity shall  be  limited  to only  minor additions  or alterations  to
the  ongoing  scheme  and  it  does  not  cover  works  and  activities that
would  exceed  the  original  scheme,  change  its  nature,  or  so  alter  or
expand  its  scope  and  extent  as  to  make  it  appear  new  or  different
scheme.

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

-10-

Section  I. 

Project  Monitoring  Reporting  and  Evaluation

A. 

Project  Reports

the  progress  of  the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and
evaluate 
in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall
cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank
not  later  than  one  month  after the  end  of the  period covered  by such  report.

Financial  Management,  Financial  Reports  and  Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause 
to  be  maintained,  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  prepare  and
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each
calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the Project covering
the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  shall  have  the
Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section
5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements
shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited
Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not
later  than  six months  after  the end of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements
set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with
the  provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and
to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured 
in
accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV
of the  Consultant  Guidelines  and  with  the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  Bank  of
particular  contracts  refer  to  the corresponding  method described  in  Sections  11
and  Ill  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  I.  Ill,  IV  and  V  of the
Consultant  Guidelines.  as  the case  may  be.

-1 1-

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

I 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-
consulting  Services

in
International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided 
paragraph  2  below.  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be
procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of International  Competitive
Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive
Bidding,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  for  those contracts  specified  in the  Procurement  Plan:

Procurement  Method
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  additional  provisions  set
forth in  below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

"Open  competitive  procedures"  (i.e.  "public  tender")  shall
be  the  default  rule.  A  single  envelope  procedure  shall  be
used  for the  submission  of goods,  works,  or  non-consulting
services.

Invitations  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  at  least  one  widely
circulated  national  daily newspaper  allowing a minimum  of
thirty  (30)  days  for  the  preparation  and  submission  of bids.
Advertisements  published  in  foreign  language  newspapers
in
shall  be  in  compliance  with  such  a  30-day-minimum 
number of days  for bids  preparation  and  submission.

If
Bidding  shall  not  be  restricted  to  pre-registered  firms. 
registration  is  required,  it  shall  not  be  denied  to  eligible
bidders  for  reasons  unrelated  to  their  capacity  and  resources
(e.g.,  mandatory
to  successfully  perform 
in  professional  organizations,  classification,
membership 
etc).  Post-qualification  shall  be  conducted  to  verify  that  the
to  successfully
bidder  has 
perform  the  contract.

the  capability  and  resources 

the  contract 

and 

financially 

Borrower-owned  enterprises  in  Georgia  shall  be  eligible  to
participate  in  bidding  only  if  they  can establish  that  they  are
under
legally 
commercial  law  and  are  not  a  dependent  agency  of  the
Borrower.  Borrower-owned  enterprises  will  be  subject  to
the  same  bid  and  performance  security  requirements  as  other
bidders.

autonomous. 

operate 

(v) 

Procuring  entities  shall  use  the  appropriate  Bank's  sample
bidding  documents.  including  pre-qualification  documents,

-12-

Procurement Method

for  the  procurement  of  goods,  works,  or  non-consulting
services,  and  such  documents  shall  contain  draft  contract
and  conditions  of  contract  including  clauses  on  fraud  and
corruption,  audit  and  publication  of award,  all  acceptable  to
the  Bank.

Bids  shall  be  opened 
in  public 
the
deadline  for  submission  of  bids.  Bidder*s  representatives
shall be  permitted  to attend  the  bid opening.

immediately  after 

Extension  of bid  validity  shall  be  allowed  once  only  for  not
more  than  thirty  (30)  days.  No  further extensions  should  be
requested  without the  prior  approval  of the  Bank.

in  monetary  terms  as  defined 

(viii)  Evaluation  of  bids  shall  be  based  on  quantifiable  criteria
expressed 
in  the  bidding
documents,  no  merit  point  system  and  no  domestic
preference  shall  be  used  in  the  evaluation  of bids.  Contracts
shall  be  awarded  to  qualified  bidders  having  submitted  the
lowest  evaluated  substantially 
responsive  bid  and  no
negotiations  shall  be carried  out  prior  to contract  award.

Civil  works  contracts  of  long  duration  (e.g.  more  than
eighteen  (18)  months)  shall  contain  an  appropriate  price
adjustment  clause.

No  bid  shall  be  rejected  purely on  the  bas:s  that the  bid  price
is  higher  than  the  estimated  budget  for  that  procurement.
All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without
the  Bank's  prior concurrence.

(vi) 

(vii) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(b)  Shopping

(c)  Direct Contracting

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
in
paragraph  2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procur.d  under  contracts
awarded  on  the  basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Except  as  otherwise  provided 

Other  Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants* services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified
in  the  Procurement  Plan:

-13-

Procurement Method

(a) 

Quality-Based  Selection

Selection under a Fixed  Budget

Least  Cost Selection

Selection Based  on Consultants'  Qualifications

Single-Source Selection of consulting firms

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

Procedures  set 
Guidelines for the  Selection of Individual Consultants

in  paragraphs  5.1-5.5  of  the  Consultant

forth 

Single-source  procedures 
Consultants

for 

the  Selection  of 

Individual

(h) 

Selection  of United  Nation Agencies

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall set  forth  those  contracts which shall  be  subject to
the  Bank's  Prior Review.  All other contracts  shall  be  subject to  Post Review
by the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of  Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

I.  The Borrower  may  withdraw the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance with the
provisions  of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated
May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the Bank  and as  made  applicable
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
to 
Expenditures  as set  forth  in the table in paragraph 2 below.

this  Agreement  pursuant 

to  such 

2.  The  following table specifies the  categories of Eligible Expenditures  that may
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category").  the  allocation  of
the amounts  of the Loan to  each Category, and the percentage  of expenditures
to be  financed for  Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

-14-

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USS) 

59,050,000 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services  and
Training

(2)  Operating  Costs 

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

800,000 

150,000 

(4)  Interest  Rate Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT

80%

80%

Amount payable  pursuant
to Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b) of
the  General  Conditions

Amount due  pursuant to
Section  2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

I. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall
be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  US$12,000,000
equivalent,  may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement  but  on  or  after  April  11.  2015,  for  Eligible  Expenditures  under
Category  (1)

2. 

The Closing  Date  is  December  31,  2019.

I. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and
the  percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

-15-

Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by 
the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date-  by  (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable
amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each June  15 and  December  15

Beginning  December  15,  2029. 
through  December  15,  2039

On  June  15,  2040 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a  Percentage)

4.55%

4.45%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower on  each  Principal Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as
of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date 
in  accordance  with
paragraph  I  of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall
be  repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of
such  withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying
the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a fraction,  the  numerator  of
which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in
paragraph  I  of  this  Schedule 
for  said  Principal  Payment  Date
("Original  Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the
sum  of  all  remaining  Original  Installment  Shares 
for  Principal
Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such  date,  such  amounts  repayable
to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn  within  two calendar  months  prior to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of
calculating the  principal  amounts  payable  on  any Principal  Payment
Date,  be 
treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on 
the  second
Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date of withdrawal  and shall  be
repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the
second Principal  Payment  Date  following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding 
the  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (a)  of  this
paragraph.  if at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a due  date  billing  system
under  which  invoices  are  issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal

-16-

3. 

(a) 

Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer
apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of  such  billing
system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2 of this  Schedule,  upon
a  Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
to  an Approved  Currency,  the amount  so converted  in the  Approved  Currency
is  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the
that 
Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such
amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion
by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by 
the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge
Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in
accordance  with the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate  component  of
the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan
Currency,  the  provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately 
to  the
amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate
amortization  schedule  for each  such amount.

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

"Affected  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project,  has  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social
impacts  caused  by:  (a)  the  involuntary  taking  of  land,  resulting  in:  (i)
relocation  or loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or access  to  assets;  or (iii)  loss
of income  sources  or  means  of livelihood,  whether  or.net  such  persons  must
move  to  another  location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to
legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on
the  livelihood  of such  person,  and  "Affected  Persons"  means,  collectively, all
such  Affected  Persons.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and
IDA  Credits  and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January
2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule
2  to this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment
of  Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World
Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July  2014).

-Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  *ESMF" means  the
the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  disclosed  by 
Borrower on  its  website  on  February  12,  2015,  and  in  the  Bank's Infoshop  on
February  18,  2015,  which  sets  forth  the  policies  and  procedures  for:  carrying
out  Environmental,  Social  and  Cultural  Resource  Screenings;  conducting
Environmental  and  Social  Reviews;  and  the  preparation  of the  environmental
management  plans  (including,  the  requirements  for  mitigation  measures  to be
included  in  environmental  management  plans).

"Environmental  and  Social  Review"  or "ESR"  means a review  of a  proposed
investment  subproject,  which  has  been  classified  as  high  risk  environmental
Category  B  through  the  ESCR  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF,  to
study  the  biophysical  environment  in  and  around  the  proposed  investment
subproject  site,  to  identify  and  assess  any  potential  environmental,  social  and
cultural  resource  impacts  of  implementation  of  such  subproject,  evaluate
alternatives,  and  design  appropriate  mitigation,  management,  and  monitoring
measures.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

specific
"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  "EMP"  means  any 
environmental  management  plan  developed  for  an  Investment  Subproject  in
accordance  with  the  ESMF  and  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

-18-

8. 

9. 

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

-Environmental,  Social  and  Cultural  Resource  Screening"  or  "ESCRS"
means  a  mandatory  review  of each  proposed  investment  subprojects  under
Parts  1(a)  and  1(b)  of the  Project,  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF,
with  the  purpose  of categorizing  them  by  expected  environmental  risks  and
impacts,  filtering  out  proposals  based  on  degree  of 
detriment  to  the
environment,  identifying  a  need  for  preparing  an  environment  management
plan  and  determining  appropriate  extent  and  type  of environmental,  social
and  cultural  resource  review  to  be  applied  to  the  proposed  investment
subprojects accepted  for further processing.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012, with  the
modifications  set forth  in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"GNTA"  means  the  Georgian  National  Tourism  Administration  of  the
Borrower.

"Investment  Subproject  Financing  Agreement"  means  any  agreement  entered
into  between  the  Project  Implementing  Entity and  a  Participating  LSG  for the
provision  of  Investment  Subproject  Financing  to  carry  out  an  Investment
Subproject,  and  "Investment  Subproject  Financing  Agreements"  means.
collectively all  such  agreements.

"Investment  Subproject  Financing"  means  a  grant  made  by 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  to a  Participating  LSG
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  LID  of Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

"Investment  Subproject"  means  an  investment  subproject  under  Part  1(a)  or
Part  1(b)  of the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  a  Participating  LSG  utilizing  the
proceeds  of Investment  Subproject  Financing  and  made  available  pursuant  to
an 
"Investment
Subprojects"  means, collectively,  all  such  subprojects.

Investment  Subproject  Financing  Agreement, 

and 

"MOF"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance or any  successor thereto.

"MRDI"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Regional  Development  and
Infrastructure  or any  successor  thereto.

"NACHP"  means  the  National  Agency  for Culture  Heritage  Preservation  of
Georgia.

the  Project 

"Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  and  necessary  incremental  expenses
incurred  by 
to  Project
implementation,  management  and  monitoring,  and  outreach  and  awareness
campaigns  including,  the  costs  of support staff salaries  (excluding salaries  of
the  Borrower's  civil  service  staff),  communication,  editing,  printing  and
publication,  translation,  vehicle  operation  and  maintenance,  bank  charges,

Implementing  Entity  with 

respect 

-19-

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

local  travel  costs  and  field trip  expenses, office  rentals,  utilities and  supplies,
based on  an annual budget agreed with  the  Bank.

"Operation  Manual"  means  the  manual  prepared  by the  Project  Implementing
Entity  pursuant  to  paragraph  2(a)  of  Section  L.A  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and  to be  adopted  by the  Project Implementing  Entity  pursuant  to
the
Section  5.01(b)  of  this  Agreement  and  which  manual 
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  and  the  Resettlement
Policy  Framework,  as  such  Operation  Manual  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time  with  the agreement  of the Bank.

includes 

"Participating  LSG"  means:  (a) a Local  Self  Government  established  and
operating  by  virtue  of the  Borrower's  Organic  Law  (Local  Self-Government
Code)  No.  1958-11-b  of February  5,  2014;  (b)  a  Borrower  national  agency  or
entity  (for example,  NACHP,  the Agency of Protected Areas and the Georgia
National  Museum);  or  (c)  administration  of  religious  organizations,  which
Investment  Subproject  in
has  been  selected  for  the  carrying  out  of  an 
accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the
Operation  Manual.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods.
Works  and Non-consulting Services under  IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits  and
Grants  by World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

the  procurement  plan  for  the  Project  dated
"Procurement  Plan"  means 
February  20.  2015,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same
shall  be  updated  from  time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions of said
paragraphs.

Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means  the  Charter  of  MDF
"Project 
established  pursuant  to  Decree  No.  118  of the  Government  of Georgia  dated
July 23,  2005.  as  amended  to date.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  or "MDF"  means  the  Municipal  Development
Fund  of Georgia  established  pursuant  to  Presidential  Decree  No.  294  of the
President of Georgia. dated June 7,  1997,  as amended  to date.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "RAP"  means  a  specific  resettlement  action
plan  developed for an  Investment  Subproject in accordance  with the  RPF  and
"Resettlement  Action  Plans"  means,
satisfactory 
collectively, all such  Resettlement  Action Plans.

the  Bank,  and 

to 

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  resettlement  policy
framework  disclosed  by  the  Borrower  on  its  website  on  February  12,  2015,
and  in the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  February  18,  2015,  which sets  forth  inter  alia:
(a)  the  description  of  areas  covered  by  the  Project;  (b) the  legal  basis  and
in
screening  process 
connection  with  works  and  construction  activities to  be  carried  out  under  the

resettlement  and 

land  acquisition, 

land  use 

for 

-20-

Project:  (c) the  resettlement  principles  and  entitlements  of Affected  Persons
based  on  different  categories  of impact;  (d) the  procedures  for consultation,
valuation.  compensation, 
restoration  and  other  assistance
provided to  the Affected  Persons,  including the grievance  process; and  (e) the
responsibilities,  procedures  and  requirements 
for  the  development  and
implementation  of site-specific RAPs.

livelihoods 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  paragraph  I  of
Section L.B  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower
shall  make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing
Entity.

"Training"  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
in  connection with  carrying out training  activities under  Part  2 of the  Project,
including travel  costs and per diem  for local trainees,  study tours,  workshops,
conferences,  and  non-degree  fellowships,  rental  of facilities  and  equipment
and  training  materials  and  related  supplies  based  on  a semi-annual  budget
agreed  with the Bank.

26. 

27. 

Section  H. 

Modifications  to  the  General Conditions

The General  Conditions are  hereby  modified as follows:

1 .

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and
Section  numbers  are  modified  to  reflect  the  modifications  set  forth  in  the
paragraphs below.

2. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee, Commitment Charge

(a) 
The  Borrower shall  pay  the Bank a front-end  fee on  the  Loan
amount  at the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Front-end
Fee").

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a commitment  charge  on
the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan
Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment  Charge
shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement  to  the  respective  dates on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn
by  the  Borrower 
The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on
each  Payment  Date."

the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled. 

from 

3. 

In the  Appendix.  Definitions, all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary, to  reflect the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.

4. 

The  Appendix  is  modified  by 
following  definition  of  "Commitment  Charge",  and 
subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with 
renumbering 

the
the

"Commitment  Charge"  means 

the  commitment  charge
-19. 
specified in the  Loan Agreement  for the  purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,
is modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to
the  definition  of "Front-end  Fee" 
Section  3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,
the definition of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified to read as follows:

5. 

6. 

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan
"68. 
Parties  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these
General  Conditions,  including (but not limited to)  any amount  of the
the
interest, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),
any  prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a Conversion  or
early  termination of a Conversion,  the Variable Spread Fixing Charge
(if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the establishment  of an  Interest
Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount
payable by the  Borrower."

the  Front-end  Fee, 

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,
the  definition of -Payment  Date"  is modified  by  deleting the  word  "is"  and
inserting the words "and  Commitment Charge  are"  after  the word "interest".

