LOAN  NUMBER  8571-EG

Loan Agreement

(First Fiscal Consolidation,  Sustainable Energy  and  Competitiveness
Programmatic  Development  Policy Financing)

ARAB REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2015

LOAN  NUMBER  8571-EG

LOAN  AGREEMENT

EGYPT 

("Borrower") 

AGREEMENT  dated  Oe.C  e PC  \A  ,  2015,  entered  into  between ARAB
REPUBLIC  OF 
and 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the  purpose  of providing  financing
in support  of the  Program (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to  this  Agreement).  The  Bank  has decided
to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis,  inter alia, of:  (a)  the  actions  which  the  Borrower  has
already  taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  I  to  this
Agreement;  and  (b) 
the  Borrower's  maintenance  of  an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy
framework.  The Borrower and the Bank  therefore hereby agree  as  follows:

INTERNATIONAL 

BANK 

ARTICLE I -GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an

integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank agrees  to lend to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or referred
to  in this Agreement,  the amount  of one billion  Dollars ($1,000,000,000),  as such  amount
may  be converted  from time  to time  through  a Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with
the provisions of Section  2.08 of this Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  support  of  the  Program  in

accordance  with Section  II  of Schedule  I  to  this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter of one  percent

(0.25%) of the  Loan  amount.

2.04 

The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%) per  annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The interest  payable by  the  Borrower  on the principal  amount  of the  loan  withdrawn  and
the amount  outstanding  from time  to  time for each Interest  Period shall be  at a  rate  equal
to  the  Reference  Rate (as  defined in paragraph  82 of the General  Conditions) for the  Loan
Currency plus the Variable  Spread;  provided, that upon a Conversion of all  or any  portion
of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the
Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant
provisions  of Article IV of the General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment Dates  are February  1  and August  1  in  each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in order  to facilitate  prudent debt  management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread  to a Variable  Rate  based on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  based  on a Variable  Spread to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  by the establishment  of
an  Interest Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate  Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference
Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article IV of the  General  Conditions and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar for which  the Borrower  has  requested  that  the premium be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  II  of
Schedule  I  to  this Agreement.

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of  this  Article  II  as  the
Bank  may, from  time to time, reasonably  request.

2.10.  The  Borrower represents  that  it  has designated  its Ministry  of Finance  for the purpose  of
handling,  on behalf of the Borrower,  debt service  payments with respect to the Loan.

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  To  this
end, and  further  to Section  5.08 of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower and  the  Bank shall  from  time to  time,  at  the request  of either  party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress  achieved in  carrying  out the  Program;

prior to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in such  detail  as the  Bank shall  reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any  situation  that  would  have
the  effect  of materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or  any  action
taken  under  the  Program  including  any action  specified  in  Section  I  of Schedule
I  to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  a  situation
has  arisen which  shall make it improbable  that the Program,  or a significant part  of it,  will
be carried out.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the  event
specified  in  Section 4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is continuing  for a period of sixty
(60)  days after  notice  of the event has been  given by the  Bank to  the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

Subject  to the  other provisions  of this  Article and  Section  9.01  of the  General  Conditions,
this  Agreement  shall  become  effective  once  the  Bank  has  received  evidence  that  all
necessary  constitutional  procedures  have been  taken  by  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with
the provisions of Section  9.01  of the General  Conditions.

5.02.  The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
progress  achieved  by  the Borrower  in  carrying  out  the Program,  and  the adequacy  of the
Borrower's macroeconomic  policy  framework,  including  through  the adoption  of a value
added tax  regime, are acceptable  to the Bank.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one hundred  and  eighty (180)  days  after the  date
of this  Agreement,  or  such  later  date  as  may  be  established  by  the  Bank  in  accordance
with Section 9.04 of the General  Conditions.

ARTICLE VI  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01.  The  Minister  of  International  Cooperation  of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as 

the

Borrower's  Representative.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of International  Cooperation

-4-

8 Adly  Street
Cairo,  Arab  Republic  of Egypt

Cable Address: 

Ministry of International  Cooperation 
Cairo,  Arab  Republic  of Egypt 

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

Facsimile:

(202)  2391-2815
(202)  2391-5167

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

IZIv 

eop 

at.  %aXas of  the day  and  year  first above

written. 

4"

ARAB REPUBLIC  OF EG 

T

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

Title:  Y)Svo

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

4-ri 

LA-A

Title:  (?-h3y)w 

Q

/
-5-

SCHEDULE1

Program Actions;  Availability of  Loan Proceeds

Section  1. 

Actions  under the Proeram

The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under  the  Program  include  the  following:  (i)  the  decree
promulgating  Law  No.  96  of  2015  has  been  issued  which  amends  the  Income  Tax  Law  by
unifying  the  top  income  tax  rate  for  all  economic  actors  operating  in  the  Borrower's  territory;
(ii)  the  decree  promulgating  Law  No.  32  of 2015,  endorsing  the national  budget  for  FY16,  has
been  issued  which  includes  administrative  instructions  to  all  government  budgetary  entities  to
contain  the  wage  bill;  (iii)  the  Ministerial  Decree  No.  515  of  2015  has  been  issued  which
mandates  the  publication  of  the  Medium-Term  Debt  Management  Strategy;  (iv)  the  Prime
Ministerial  Decree  No.  2259  of  2015  has  been  issued  for  implementing  the  second  annual
electricity  tariff  adjustment  as  part  of a  five  year  tariff  reform  plan  outlined  in  the  Prime
Ministerial  Decree  No.  1257  of 2014  to  reform  the  gas  and  electricity  subsidy;  (v)  the  decree
promulgating  Law No.  87  of 2015  has  been  issued  mandating  the promotion  of competition  in
the  electricity  sector  and  the  separation  of  the  Egyptian  Electricity  Transmission  Company;
(vi)  the  Cabinet  has  endorsed  a  draft  gas  law  that  provides  for  open  access  to  the  gas
infrastructure  and  the  establishment  of  an  independent  gas  sector  regulator;  (vii)  (a)  the  decree
promulgating  Law  No.  203  of 2014  has  been  issued  for  the  stimulation  of producing  electricity
from  renewable  energy  sources;  (b)  the  Egyptian  Electric  Utility  and  Consumer  Protection
Regulatory  Agency  has issued interim licenses  to ten  (10)  private developers  pursuant  to  Law No.
203/2014;  (viii)  the  decree  promulgating  Law  No.  17  of 2015  and  the  Prime  Ministerial  Decree
No.  1820  of  2015  have  been 
introduced  and  implemented
amendments  to  the  Investment  Guarantees  and  Incentives  Law  defining  investor  rights  and
improving  investment  facilitation  services;  (ix)  the  Prime  Ministerial  Decree  No.  2807  of 2015
has  been  issued  launching  the  reform  of the  industrial  licensing  regime  including  setting  the
principles  of the  reform;  and  (x)  draft  executive  regulations  has  been  submitted  to  the  Prime
Minister  to  implement  Law  No.  56  of  2014  which  introduced  amendments  to  the  Competition
Law to enhance  anti-cartel  policy to prosecute  the most harmful  competition offences.

issued  which,  respectively, 

Section  II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

B. 

General.  The Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of  the  Loan in  accordance  with the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  arrangements  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice  to the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan  Amounts.  The Loan  (except  for  amounts  required to  pay the  Front-
end  Fee)  is allocated  in  a single  withdrawal  tranche, from  which  the Borrower may make
withdrawals  of the Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the  amounts of the  Loan  to  this  end
is set out in the table below:

Allocations 

(1)  Single Withdrawal Tranche 

Amount  of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in USD)
$997,500,000

4-

1. 

I. 

2. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

(2)  Front-end Fee 
(3)  Amount due pursuant  to  Section
2.08(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

$2,500,000

0
$1,000,000,000

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche  Release  Conditions.

No  withdrawal  shall be  made of the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank
is satisfied:  (a)  with the  Program  being  carried  out  by the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with
the adequacy  of the  Borrower's macroeconomic  policy  framework.

D. 

Deposit  of Loan Amounts.

E. 

Audit.  Upon the Bank's  request, the Borrower  shall:

The  Borrower  shall  open,  prior  to  furnishing  to  the  Bank  the  first  request  for
withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account,  and  thereafter  maintain  a deposit  account  in
Dollars  ("Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account"),  on 
terms  and  conditions
acceptable  to the Bank.

All  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall be  deposited  by the  Bank  into the
Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each
deposit of an  amount of the Loan  into  the Foreign  Currency  Deposit Account,  an
equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget  management
system,  in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

have  the  Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account  audited  by  independent  auditors
acceptable 
to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
standards  acceptable  to  the Bank;

furnish  to the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in  any  case  not  later  than  four  (4)
months  after the date  of the Bank's  request  for such audit, a certified  copy of the
report of such audit,  of such  scope and in  such  detail  as the Bank shall reasonably
request,  and  make  such  report  publicly  available  in  a  timely  fashion  and  in  a
manner acceptable  to the Bank;  and

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  the  Foreign  Currency
Deposit  Account and  its audit as the Bank  shall reasonably request.

F. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
not  be used to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the Bank determines  at any  time that  an
amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  an  amount  equal  to  the
amount  of such  payment  to the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to the  Bank  upon  such request
shall be  cancelled.

G. 

Closing  Date.  The Closing Date is June 30,  2017.

SCHEDULE2

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and 

the
The  following 
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully withdrawn  as of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any amounts referred  to  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,
to  which a  Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each  February  I  and August  1
Beginning February  1,  2021 
through and including  February  1,  2050
On August  1,  2050 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

1.67%

1.47%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of such  date in accordance  with paragraph  I  of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling  after the  date of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount  of each such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is the original  Installment  Share  specified in  the
table  in paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment Date  shall, for the purposes  solely  of calculating the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and shall  be repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the date of withdrawal.

-8-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank  adopts a  due  date  billing  system  under which  invoices  are issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such billing  system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank by  multiplying  such  amount in  its currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion by  either-  (i) the  exchange  rate  that reflects  the amounts of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component of the  Screen Rate.

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency,  so as  to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each such  amount.

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

"Cabinet"  means the Borrower's  Council  of Ministers.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"Competition  Law"  means  Law  No.  3/2005  on  the  Protection  of  Competition  and
Prohibition of Monopolistic  Practices,  as amended,  of the laws  of the  Borrower.

"Egyptian  Electric  Utility  and  Consumer  Protection  Regulatory  Agency"  means  the
Borrower's  electric  utility  and  consumer  protection  regulatory  agency  established  and
operating pursuant  to the laws of the Borrower,  or any  successor thereto.

"Egyptian  Electricity  Transmission  Company"  means 
the  Borrower's  electricity
transmission company  established  and operating  pursuant  to  the laws  of the  Borrower,  or
any successor thereto.

5. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other 
than  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has financed  or agreed  to  finance under another  loan, credit,  or grant;

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the  SITC),
or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated by the  Bank by notice to  the  Borrower:

Sub-group 

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

718.7 

728 

728.43 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured,
tobacco  refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether  or not containing
tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and  associated
materials
Pearls,  precious and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and  parts
thereof;  fuel  elements
(cartridges),  non-irradiated,
for  nuclear reactors
Tobacco  processing

-10-

897 

897.3 

machinery
Jewelry  of gold,  silver or
platinum  group metals  (except
watches  and watch  cases)  and
goldsmiths'  or  silversmiths'
wares  (including set  gems)
Gold,  non-monetary
(excluding  gold ores and
concentrates)

971 

for  goods 
consumption;

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury

for environmentally hazardous  goods,  the manufacture,  use or  import of which  is
prohibited  under  the  laws  of the  Borrower  or international  agreements  to  which
the Borrower  is a party;

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations
Security  Council  taken under  Chapter VII  of the Charter  of the United  Nations;
and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by representatives  of  the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of  the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  address
such  practices  when they  occur.

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

"Fiscal  Year"  or "FY"  means the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  covering a  period of twelve  (12)
months  commencing  on  July  I  of  a  calendar  year  and  ending  on  June  30  of the
succeeding calendar  year.

"Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account" means  the  account  referred  to in  Part  D.1  of Section
II  of Schedule  I  to  this Agreement.

"General  Authority  for  Investment  and  Free  Zones"  or  "GAFI"  means  the  Borrower's
general  authority  for  investment  and  free  zones  established  and operating  pursuant  to  the
laws  of the Borrower,  or any successor  thereto.

"General  Conditions"  means 
for  Reconstruction 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with 
modifications set forth  in Section  II  of this Appendix.

the  "International  Bank 

and
the

"Income  Tax  Law"  means  Law  No.  91/2005  on  Income  Taxation,  as  amended,  of the
laws of the  Borrower.

"Investment  Guarantees  and  Incentives  Law"  means  Law  No.  8/1997  on  Investment
Guarantees  and  Incentives,  as amended,  of the laws of the Borrower.

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"Medium-Term  Debt  Management  Strategy"  means a  strategy approved  and published  by
the Ministry of Finance  that outlines  the Borrower's  borrowing plans  covering  three  years
and  measures to  be adopted  to  improve  the public debt  management portfolio.

"Ministry  of  Finance"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Ministry  of Trade  and  Industry"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Trade  and Industry,
or any successor  thereto.

"Program"  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  promote
growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the
letter  dated  November  12,  2015,  from  the Borrower  to the  Bank  declaring the  Borrower's
commitment  to the execution  of the Program,  and requesting  assistance  from  the Bank  in
support of the  Program during its execution.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of
Schedule  I  to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions are hereby  modified  as follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the references  to Sections,  Section  names  and Section  numbers
are  modified to reflect  the  modifications  set forth  in the  paragraphs  below.

The  last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections  2.04  (Designated Accounts) and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted  in their
entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II are renumbered accordingly.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall pay  the  Bank a  front-end  fee on  the  Loan  amount  at the  rate

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the  Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").
The  Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a date  sixty  days  after  the date  of the  Loan
Agreement  to  the  respective  dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower
from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in arrears  on each  Payment Date."

-12-

5. 

6. 

7. 

9. 

10. 

Sections  5.01 
(Project  Execution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial  Management,
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent  Sections  in
Article  V are renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above  and
relating to  Use of Goods,  Works and Services) is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified to read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain all records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
... 
bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing  expenditures  under the  Loan  until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable 
the  Bank's
representatives to  examine such  records."

8- 

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified to  read  as follows:

"Section 5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

... 
The  Borrower  shall prepare,  or cause  to  be  prepared,  and  furnish
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of  such
scope and in  such  detail as  the Bank shall  reasonably  request,  on  the execution  of
the  Program, 
the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of
the  purposes of the Loan."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as necessary,  to  reflect the modifications  set  forth above.

The Appendix  is  modified  by inserting a  new  paragraph  19  with  the following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering the remaining  paragraphs  accordingly:

"19. 
Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.0 1(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

I1. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of  the  Appendix 
Expenditure")  is  modified to  read  as follows:

("Eligible

"37. 
Program,  other  than to  finance expenditures  excluded  pursuant  to the  Loan  Agreement."

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put in  support  of the

12. 

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of  the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted  in its  entirety.

-13-

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

In  paragraph  48  of  the  Appendix,  the  definition  of  "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by
replacing the reference  to  Section  3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  paragraph  67  of the  Appendix,  the  definition  of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified
to read  as  follows:

"67. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to  the  Legal Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including  (but not  limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a Conversion  or early termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any premium  payable  upon the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any Unwinding  Amount  payable by  the
Borrower."

In  paragraph  72  of  the  Appendix,  the  definition  of  "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by
deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after  the
word  "interest".

The  defined  term  "Project" 
in  paragraph  75  of  the  Appendix  is  modified  to  read
"Program"  and  its  definition  is  modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to
"Project" 
these  General  Conditions  are  deemed 
to
"Program"):

to  be  references 

throughout 

"75. 
which the  Loan  is made."

"Program"  means  the program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of

