OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8521-AL

Loan Agreement

(Citizen-Centric  Service Delivery Project)

REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

eP76 

_/-7,3C2 

2015

LOAN  NUMBER  8521-AL

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated, 

2015,  between  the
REPUBLICOF  ALBANIA  ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby  agree  as  follows:

EC  P7E & 

2 

' 

ARTICLE  I-GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

ARTICLE 1I-LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set  forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of twenty  nine  million,  three  hundred
thousandEuro  (E29,300,000)  ("Loan"),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from
time  to time  through  a Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with the provisions  of
Section  2.08  of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),to  assist  in  financing  the  project
described  in Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  including  the  requirementthat  no
Loan  withdrawals  shall  be  made  for  payments  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditure
Programs  under  Category  (1) unless  the pertinent  conditions  and  results  for each
respective  DLI as set forth  in  Annex 2 to  Schedule  2 have been  achieved.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter
of one percent  (0.25%) per  annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Ratefor  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that upon  a  Conversion of all  or any portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period on

-2-

such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then the  interest  payable  by
the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the
General  Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment Dates are January  15  and July  15in each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 

in  accordance  with

theamortization  schedule  set  forth  inSchedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any of the  following Conversions
of the  terms of the  Loan  in order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based on a  Fixed Reference  Rate and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed Spread;  and (iii)  the
setting of limits on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an Interest Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar  on the Variable  Rate or the Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time to  time  for the  purpose  in the table  in  Section  IV of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

-3-

ARTICLE III-PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the Borrower shall  carry  out the Project throughMIPA  with  the assistance  of
the  Participating  Agencies  in  respect  of  the  following  public  sector  reform
activities  set  forth  inParts  1(a),  2(a)  and  3(a)  of the  Project,  simplification  of the
business  processes, 
improving  the  quality  of  public  service  delivery  and
attaining  the  Institutional  Prerequisites  for  the  delivery  of the  Citizen  Centric
Service  Delivery  Reform  Program,  allin  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  V of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV-EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Additional  Conditionsof Effectiveness  consistof  the  following,  namely,  that
the Borrower, through  MIPA,  has:

(a) 

(b) 

prepared  and  adopted  theOperations  Manual  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to
the Bank;  and

established  a  Project  Management  Unit  comprising  of  staff  with
qualifications,  experience  and under terms  of reference  satisfactory to  the
Bank.

4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this

Agreement.

ARTICLE V-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its  Minister of Finance.

5.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
No. 3  Bulevardi  "Dashmordt e  Kombit"
Tirand,  Albania

Facsimile:
355  42228494

1

-4-

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Tirana,  Republic  of Albania,  as  of the day  and year first above written.

REPUBLIC  OF ALBANIA

By

Authorized  R  presentative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  14-#SEE1U  5i Y61)

Title:  6(2 AN/ 

1ft 

Im/vse

-5-

SCHEDULE  1
Project Description

The  objectiveof the  Projectis to  improve the  efficiency  of delivery  and  access  to

Selected  Administrative  Services  in the Borrower's  territory.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

Part1:  Enhancing  the Backend  Systems

Supporting  theimplementation  of the  Borrower's  program  for  simplification  and
improvement  of  its  business  processes(Business  Process  Re-engineering)  to
reduce time  citizens  take  to  obtain  the required  services,  through  reimbursement
of EEPs  for said program  (Part  1(a) EEP).

Strengthening  the  capacity  of ADISA  and  the  Participating  Agenciesto  provide
improved  Selected  AdministrativeServices 
through  provision  of  technical
assistance  and Training.

theParticipating  Agencies'ICT 

Strengthening 
inter
aliaconverting  information  into  digital  format,  optimizing  databases  to  promote
more  effective  use  of  data,  and  developing  software  through  provision  of
technical  assistance  and goods.

capacity 

through 

Part2: Enhancing  Citizen Interface with  Service  Delivery

service  delivery 

Supporting  implementation  of the  Borrower's  program  to  improve  the  quality  of
its  public 
inter  alia(i)disseminating
information  on government  services  to the public;  (ii)providing transactional  web
presence  through  electronic  authentication,  E-filing  and  E-payments;  and  (iii)
monitoring  of  citizen  feedback  and 
in  performance,  through
reimbursement  of EEPs  for said program  (Part  2(a) EEP).

improvements 

including 

through 

Strengthening  the  Borrower's  capacity  todevelop  and  implement  a  range  of
programactivities,including: 
for
various  actors  to  ensure  effective  implementation  of  the  Project;  (iii)  citizen
outreach  and awareness  campaigns;  and(iv)citizens'feedback  mechanisms.

(i)  communication  programs,  (ii) 

incentives 

Carrying  out  of minor  refurbishment  of front  offices  of select  service  providing
institutions.

(d) 

Establishing  a Call  Center through  provision  of goods  and technical  assistance.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

**

-6-

Part 3:  Building  Capacity to  Deliver

(a) 

the 

implementation  of  the  Borrower's  program  on  achieving
Supporting 
theInstitutional  Prerequisites  for  the  Citizen  Centric  Service  Delivery  Reform
Program,  namely:  (i)  approval  of the  Citizen  Centric  Service  Delivery  Reform
Program  document;  and(ii)  conducting  surveys  for  the  baseline  information  on
the  objectives  of the  Project,  through  reimbursement  of EEPs  for  said  program
(Part 3(a) EEP).

(b) 

Strengthening  the  Borrower's  capacity  to  deliver  public  services  through  inter
alia:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

designing  and  implementing  a  program  foradoption  and  implementation
of  proposed reforms  to be  identified  under the Project;

data 

service
including 
improving 
standards,  conducting  regular  assessments;strengthening  monitoring
toolsand  conducting third party  audits and  DLIs verification;  and

throughdeveloping 

collection 

(iii) 

strengthening  ADISA's Project management  capacity.

Part 4:  Citizen Service  Center and Project Management

(a) 

Citizen  Service  Center

Conducting  a study  on the current state  of public  services  delivery.

Preparing  a  concept  of the  CSC  model  and  its  design,  and  supporting
CSC  establishment.

(iii) 

Establishing  a  citizen  feedback  mechanism  to  promote  effective  use  of
the  CSC  model.

(b) 

Project Management  Unit

Strengthening  the  capacity  ofADISA  to  implement  the  Project,  including,inter
alia,through  the  recruitment  of  a  Project  manager,  financial  management
specialist,  administrative  specialist and  procurement  specialist.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

Project  Management  Unit

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  through MIPA:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

carryout  oversight  of Project implementation;

Project 

ensure  that  ADISA  establishes  and  thereafter  operates  and
Project
maintainsthroughout 
Management  Unit  with  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable
to  the  Bank,  and  key  staff  including  a  Project  Manager,  a
procurement  specialist,a  financial  management  specialist,  and  an
administrative  specialist,all  with  qualifications,  experience  and
terms  of reference  acceptable  to the Bank; and

implementation,a 

ensure  that  the  PMU  carries  out  its  overall  Project  management
responsibilities  including:  (i)  coordination  of  the  Participating
Agencies  and  overseeing  their  technical  inputs;  (ii)  consolidation
of documentation  on  EEPs,  technical  reports  and  information  on
financial
DLIs  verification; 
management.

procurement 

and 

and 

(iii) 

2. 

Project  Steering Committee

The  Borrower  shall  through MIPA:

(a) 

(b) 

maintain throughout  the implementation  of the Project,  a Project  Steering
Committee (PSC);  and

the  management  of 

ensure  that  the  PSC:(i)  meetsat  least  on  a  quarterly  basis;(ii)  carries  out
inter
oversight  of 
removal  of
aliamonitoring  of  Project 
the
among 
bottlenecks;and 
Participating  Agencies.

implementation  progress, 

informationexchange 

the  Project, 

(iii)facilitates 

including 

-8-

3. 

Ministerial Working  Groups

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  through MIPA:

(i) 

(ii) 

operate  and  maintain  throughout  the  implementation  of  the
Project,  the  Ministerial  Working  Groups,  chaired  by MIPA  with
and
a  compositionincluding 
agencies  involved in the Project,  mandate,  and terms  of reference
satisfactory to the  Bank;  and

representatives  of  ministries 

that  the  TIC:  (A)  carries  out  technical  studies  for
ensure 
gathering the  relevant  baseline data;  (B)  completes  the review  of
legal  reform
the  relevant 
inventory;  and  (C)  recommends  the  processes  for simplification
to  deliver  quality
legal 
including 
administrative  services.

lawsand  validating 

the  necessary 

the  existing 

reforms 

4. 

Inter-Ministerial Public Service  Committee

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  IPSC  supports  Project  implementation
through  providing:  (a)  strategic  guidance on the public  service  provision  reforms,
(b)  oversight  of the agencies  involved  in the Project,  and (c)  recommendations  to
resolve  Project  implementation  obstacles  associated  with  the  agencies  involved
in  the Project.

5. 

Operations  Manual

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower through  MIPA  shall ensure  that:

(a) 

the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  Operations  Manual
which  manual  sets  forth  the  policies  and  procedures  that  apply  to  the
(i)  the  roles  and
carrying  out  of  the  Project,  including,  inter  alia: 
responsibilities  of  the  Participating  Agenciesand  entities  involved  in
the  estimated
Project;  (ii)  a  detailed  description  of  the  EEPs;  (iii) 
implementation  schedule;  (iv)  procedures  for  accessing,  disbursing  and
accounting  for  funds  under  the  Project;  (v)  the  indicators  to  be  used  in
the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project;  (vi)  the  procedures  for
Project monitoring,  supervision  and evaluation,  including  the  format and
content  of the  Project  Reports;  (g)  the  DLIs  and  (vii)  procurement  and
financial  management  procedures  including  clearly  defined  procedures
to  payments  verification  and  processing,  and  record  and
related 

-9-

management  of Eligible  Expenditures  financed  with  the  Loan  proceeds
and,

(b) 

except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Operations
Manual  shall  not  be  amended,  waived,  suspended  or  abrogated,  and  in
case  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  provisions  of  the  Operations
Manual  and  those  of this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of this  Agreement
shall  prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

E. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Safeguards

The Borrower  through MIPA,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

carry  out the  Project  in accordance  with the  Environmental  Management
Plan in a  manner satisfactory  to the Bank;  and

provide  to  the  Bank  for  its  prior  approval,  any  revision  proposed  to  be
introduced  into  said  EMP,  and  thereafter  only  introduce  such  revision
into  said EMP as  shall  have  been agreed with the Bank.

In  case  of a conflict  between  the  EMP and the  provisions  of this  Agreement, the
provisions  of this  Agreement  shall  prevail.

The  Borrower  through  MIPA  shall  ensure  that  the  execution  of the  Project  does
not result  in:  (i) the  involuntary taking of land,  resulting in  (A)  relocation  or loss
of shelter  (B)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets  or (C)  loss  of income  sources  or
means  of  livelihood  on  project  affected  persons,  whether  or  not  such  affected
persons  must  move  to  another  location;  or  (ii)  the  involuntary  restriction  to
access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse
impacts on the livelihoods.

In  implementing  Part  4  (a)  (ii)  of the  Project,  theBorrower  through  MIPA  shall
ensure  that the  terms  of reference  for  any consultancy  shall  be  satisfactory  to the
Bank  following  its  review  thereof and,  to  that end,  such  terms of reference  shall
duly  incorporate  the  requirements  of  the  Bank's  Safeguards  Policies  then  in
force,  as  applied to the advice  conveyed through  such technical  assistance.

- 10  -

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

C. 

1. 

The  Borrower,  through  MIPA,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the
Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and on the basis  of theindicators  acceptable  to the
Bank.  Each  Project  Report shall  cover the period  of six (6)  months  and  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one  (1) month  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by such report.

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the
execution  of the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall
be  furnished to the  Bank not  later than  six (6)  months.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrowershall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  MIPA  to prepare  and  furnish to the  Bank not  later  than
forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year of the  Borrower,
commencing  with the  fiscal  year  in  which the  first withdrawal  was  made  under
the  Preparation  Advance  for the  Project.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for
each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later than  nine  months after
the end  of such period.

DLI Audit, DLI Progress Report, DLI  Audit Report

In  implementing  Parts  1(a),  2(a)  and  3(a)  of the  Project, the  Borrower,  through
MIPA,  shall  ensure that  ADISA:

(a) 

(b) 

no  later  than  one  (1)monthafter  the  end  of  each  calendarquarter,or  by
such  later  date  as  agreed  with  the  Bank,  prepares  and  furnishes  to  the
Bank  an interim  unaudited  DLI  Progress Report  satisfactory  to the Bank;

no  later than  one  (1)month  after the end  of eachcalendar  Year,  or by  such
later  date  as  agreed  with  the  Bank,carries  out  an  independent  DLI  Audit

e

- 11 -

which shall,inter alia,certify the  extent to which the DLI  for the pertinent
calendar  Year  covered by  the DLI  Audit has  been  met;  and

(c) 

no  later  than  one  (1)  month  after  the  end  of each  calendar  Year,  or  by
such  later  date  as  agreed  with  the  Bank,  prepares  and  furnishes  to  the
Bank  a complete  DLI  Audit Report  satisfactory to  the Bank, including  all
the  findings  and  results  from  the  DLI  Audit,  as  well  as  any  additional
certifications  from the DLI Audit  as the Bank may reasonably  request.
Procurement

Section  III. 

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for  the Project  and to be  financedout  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project and  to
be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts refer to the corresponding  method  described  in Sections  II and  III of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

InternationalCompetitive Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on the basis of International  Competitive Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Worksand  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other than  InternationalCompetitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of  good,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those  contracts  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive
Bidding  subject  to  the  additional  provisions  contained  in  paragraph  3  of  this
Section; (b)  Shopping and  (c)  Direct  Contracting.

- 12  -

3. 

Modifications  to  the  Borrower's  National  Competitive  Bidding  Procedures.
The  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  ("NCB")  shall  be  based  on  the
Open  Tendering  procedures  as  defined  in the  Public  Procurement  Law  ("PPL")
of Albania  (Law  No.  9643  dated  November  20,  2006,  as  amended),  provided,
however,  that  such  procedure  shall  be subject  to  the  provisions  of Section  I and
Paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  the  following
additional  provisions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

(k) 

"Open  Tendering"  procedures  as  defined  in  the  PPL  of  Albania  shall
apply  to all contracts  financed  by the Bank.

Foreign bidders  shall  not be  precluded  from  bidding and  no preference  of
any  kind  shall  be  given  to  national  bidders  in  the  bidding  process.
Government-owned  enterprises  in  Albania  shall  be  permitted  to  bid only
if  they  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous  and  operate  under
commercial  law of the Borrower.  Registration  shall  not be  used to assess
bidders'  qualifications.

Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public  in  one  location,  immediately  after  the
deadline  for  submission  of bids  in  the  presence  of the  representatives
who choose  to attend.

The  procuring  entities  shall  use  sample  bidding  documents  as  approved
by the Bank.

In  case  of higher  bid  prices  compared  to  the  official  estimate,  all  bids
shall  not be rejected  without the prior concurrence  of the  Bank.

A  single-envelope  procedure  shall  be  used for the submission  of bids.

Post-qualification  shall  be  conducted  only  on  the  lowest  evaluated
time  of  bid  opening  on
bidder;  no  bid  shall  be  rejected  at  the 
qualification  grounds.

Bidders  in  the  form  of a joint venture  shall  be  held jointly and  severally
liable.

Before  rejecting all  bids  and  soliciting new bids, the prior concurrence  of
the Bank shall  be  obtained.

lowest  evaluated,  substantially
the 
Contracts  shall  be  awarded  to 
responsive  bidder  who  is  determined  to  be  qualified  to  perform  in
accordance  with  pre-defined  and pre-disclosed  evaluation  criteria.

Post-bidding  negotiations  shall  not  be allowed  with the  lowest  evaluated
or any other bidder.

- 13  -

(1) 

(in) 

(n) 

(o) 

Contracts  of  long  duration  (more 
appropriate  price adjustment  provisions  acceptable to the Bank.

than  18  months)  shall  contain

Bid  and contract  guarantees shall  be  in the  format included  in the bidding
documents  referred  to  in  (d)  above.  The  bid  guarantee  shall  be  valid  for
twenty-eight  (28)  days  beyond  the  original  validity  period  of the bid,  or
beyond  any  period  of extension  if requested.  No  advance  payments  shall
be made  without a  suitable advance  payment  guarantee.

The  bidding  document  and  contract  as  deemed  acceptable  by  the  Bank
shall  include  provisions  stating  the  Bank's  policy  to  sanction  firms  or
individuals,  found  to  have engaged  in  fraud  and  corruption  as  defined  in
the Procurement  Guidelines.

In  accordance  with  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  each  bidding  document
and  contract  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  provide  that
bidders,  suppliers  and  contractors,  and  their  subcontractors,  agents,
personnel,  consultants,  service  providers,  or  suppliers,  shall  permit  the
Bank  to inspect  all accounts,  records,  and  other documents  relating to  the
submission  of bids  and  contract  performance,  and  to  have  them  audited
by  auditors  appointed  by  the  Bank.  Without  limitation to  the  provisions
set  forth  in  paragraph  1.16  (a)  (v)  (bb)  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
acts  intended  to  materially  impede  the  exercise  of the Bank's  inspection
and  audit  rights  provided  for  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines  shall
in  the  Procurement
constitute  an  obstructive  practice  as  defined 
Guidelines.

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Budget; 
Qualifications,  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms;  (f) Procedures  set
forth  in paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  for the  Selection of
Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

-14

- 14  -

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which shall  be  subject to  the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table in paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each Category.

A. 

1. 

2. 

Category 

services, 

Expenditures 
(1)Eligible 
Program  under  Parts  1(a), 
2(a) and 3(a) of the  Project 
(2)  Goods,  works,  non- 
and
consulting 
consultants' 
services,
and  Operating
Training 
Costs  under Parts  1(b),  1(c),
2(b),  2(c)  and3(b) and (4)  of
the Project
of 
Refund 
(3) 
Preparation  Advance 

the 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in Euro) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

22,895,000 

4,431,750 

100%up to the DLI  Amount
in Annex 2 to  Schedule  2 of
the Agreement
100%

1,900,000 

Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.07  (a) of the
General  Conditions

- 15  -

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  Euro) 

(4) Front-end  Fee 

73,250 

Percentage of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

Amount payable  pursuant
to Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount due pursuant to
Section  2.08(c) of this
Agreement

(5) Interest Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

B. 

1 .

made for:

29_300_000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

to 

the  date  of 

this  Agreement  except
payments  made  prior 
thatwithdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  E 5,860,000
may be made for payments  made prior to this date but on or after January
1, 2015  for  Eligible  Expenditures  Programs  under  Category  (1) for  the
first  disbursement  provided  that  the  Borrowerhas  met  the  conditions
referred to in (b)  and (c)  below;

payments  under  Category  (1)until  the  Borrower  has  furnished  evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that  DLI 5 has  been met;  and

payments  under Category (1) with respect  to each DLI metand  for which
a  withdrawal  request  has  been  submitted,  unless  the  Borrower  has
furnished  evidence  satisfactory to  the Bank and  defined  in the Operations
the
Manual 
to  this
Borrower's  sector  budget 
the
Agreementhave  been  made  by  the  Borrower  in  accordancewith 
Borrower's  applicable  laws and regulations  and Operations Manual.

that  payment  for  Eligible  Expenditures  Programunder 
lines  set  forth 

in  Schedule  4 

2. 

Without  limitation  to the  provision  set  forth  in  paragraph  1 of Section  IV.B  of
this  Schedule,  withdrawals  by  the Borrower  under Category  (1) shall  be  made  in
the  amount  specified  in  the  "DLI  Amount"  row  of  the  table  in  Annex  2  to
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  subject  to  submission  to  the  Bank  of evidence
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the  DLI  (and  for  which  a  withdrawal  request  has
been  submitted)  has been achieved.

- 16-

3. 

In connection  with the  foregoing,  if the  Bank  determines,  based on the evidence
referred  to  in Section  IV.B.1  (c)  and 2  above  that:

4. 

Notwithstanding  the foregoing:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

DLI  5 has  been  met  as  provided  in  paragraph  1 (b) above  but  DLI  1
through  DLI  4  have  not  been  met  orhave  been  partially  met,  then  the
proportion  of  the  corresponding  DLI  Amount  shall  be  reduced  in
proportion  to  the  respective  degree  of  DLI  achievement  in  accordance
the  Operations  Manual,  and  any
with  the  formula  set  forth 
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  withdrawal  requested  for  said  Year  in
respect  of  such  unmet  or  partially  met  DLI  shall  remain  available  for
subsequent withdrawal;  and

in 

DLI  5  has  not  been  met  as  referred  to  in  Section  IV.B.1  (b) of  this
Schedule,  the  DLI  Amount  of  E 4,495,000  shall  remain  available  for
subsequent  withdrawal  once  DLI 5 is  met in  a manner  satisfactory  to the
Bank, or may be cancelled  by the Bank.

If the  Bank  has  not  received  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  DLI
5has  been  met  and  has  withheld  disbursement  of Loan  proceeds  under
Category  (1) in  respect  of DLI  1 through  DLI  4  that has  been  achieved,
the Bank, at  its  sole discretion,  may:

(i) 

(ii) 

at  a  later  date  when  the  Bank  has  received  evidence  satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  indicating  that  DLI  5has  been  met,  authorize
withdrawal  of the  Loan proceeds  so  withheld  in respect of DLI  1
through DLI 4; or

at  any time,  by notice  to  the  Borrower,  cancel  the  amount  of the
Loan  proceeds  so withheld  in respect  of DLI  1 through  DLI 4 or
reallocate said  amount to other DLIs.

(b) 

the  Borrower  under  Category 

If  the  Bank  determines,  at  any  time,  that  any  portion  of the  amounts
for
disbursed  by 
reimbursement  of expenditures  that  are  not  eligible  under  the EEPs  or  not
in compliance  with  the provisions  of paragraphs  1(c)and 2  of Section  IV.B
of this  Schedule,  the Borrower  shall  promptly  refund  any  such  amount  to
the Bank as  the Bank shall  specify by  notice to the Borrower.

(1)  was  made 

5.  The Closing  Date is  December  31,  2020.

Annex 2
Disbursement  Linked Indicators

Borrower's  Fiscal Year  following  Effective Date

DLI  Description,  Targets 
and  Amount 

Baseline 

FY 15 

FY16 

FY17 

FY18 

FY19 

FY20 

(Euromillion)

DLI  DsitTotal

proportion  of
Loan  amount

Number 

0 

DLI  1 
Number of 
new online 
services with
Level 3
Automation  DLI

Amount
expressed 
in  Euro
million)

um50 

15  in 
addition  to 

35 
(20  in 
addition to 
target to  be 
achieved  in 
previous 
Year) 

55 
(20 in 
addition to 
target to  be 
achieved  in 
previous 
Year) 

75
(20  in
addition
to target
to  be
achieved
in Year3)

2.750 

1.800 

0.900 

0.900 

6.350

DLI 2 
Number of 
Priority 
Public 

Number 

0 

0 

BPR To-Be  BPR To-Be 
maps of 50  maps of 70 
services 
produced 

services 
produced 

BPR To-
BPR plan  for  Be maps
70  services
executed 

of 100
services

- 18-

and 
approved 

(20  in 
addition  to 
target  to be 
achieved  in 
previous 
year) 

produced
(30  in
addition
to target
to be
achieved
in
previous
year)

2.750 

0.900 

0.900 

0.900 

5.450

90 
0 
(20  in 

to 
target to be 
in 

previous 
year) 

110
(20  in 
addition 
aaddition
to target 
to  be 
achieved 

in 
previous 
year)

13
(20in

to target
to  be
achieved

in
previous

1.400 

0.900 

0.500 

0.500 

3.300

0 

0 

Promotional 
Plan 
pan 
prepared  for 
70  services 

Promotional
Pa
Plan
executed 
for 70
ser. 7
services

90 

110 

130

Services 
with 
Business 
Processes 
Re- 
engineered 
(BPR) 

DLI 3 

improved 
customer 
service/ 
front office 
interface 

DLI  4 

Number of 

DLI
Amount
expressed 
in Euro
million)

DLI 
Amount
expressed 

in  Euros
million)

Number 

Number  of 
services 
sferes wachieved 

Number00070addition 
Number 

0 

0 

0 

70 

services with  DLI
information  Amount  in
available  on  Euro 
multiple 
platforms

million)

Institutional
prerequisites
for Citizen

.eric 

Institutional  Centric 
prerequisites  Deliver
Delivery
for Citizen 
Rfn
Centric 
Program
Service-
Delivery 
Reform 
Program 
achieved 

DLI
Amount
expressed 
in  Euro

million)

Total 

No 

Yes

- 19-

1.300 

0.500 

0.500 

0.500 

0.500 

3.300

4.495 

0 

0 

0 

0 

4.495

4.495 

6.800 

4.600 

3.200 

2.800 

1.000 

22,895,000

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred to  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,
to which a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each January  15  and July  15

Beginning January  15,  2023, 
through  January  15,  2035

On July  15,  2035 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

3.85%

3.75%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of such  date in accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment Date falling  after the date  of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the Bank  by  multiplying  the amount of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table in  paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date, such  amounts repayable  to be  adjusted, as  necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment Date  shall,  for  the purposes  solely of calculating  the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date commencing
with the second  Principal  Payment Date  following  the date of withdrawal.

-21-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a due  date  billing system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank by  multiplying  such  amount in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the Conversion by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate  that reflects  the amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is  denominated  in more than  one Loan Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply separately  to the amount denominated  in each
Loan.

- 22  -

SCHEDULE  4

Eligible  Expenditure Programs
Sector Budget  Lines

Eligible  Expenditure Program - Public Non  Budgetary Institutions

Agency 
Institutions

-

Public  Non-BudgetaryObetCd&Dsciio

Immovable  Property  Registration  Office 

60Slre 
601  Social  Security  Contribution

n

Eligible  Expenditure Program - Budgetary  Institutions

Agency  - Budgetary 
Institutions 

Line  ministry /  Object Code & 
Institution code 

Description 

Program 
Code 

Program
Description

Ministry  of Interior 

.

16 / Municipality 
coe 
codes 

National  Agency  for 
Information  Society 

87/1087006 

Agency  for Delivery of 
Integrated  Services  in 
Albania (ADISA)Contribution

87/1087017 

600  Salaries
601  Social 
euiy01170 
Security 
Contribution
600  Salaries 
601  Social 
Security
Contribution
600  Salaries
601  SoalGna
601  Social 
Security 

Civil Register
reod
records

01140 

Information
Society

01160 

General  Public
Services  II

- 23  -

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"ADISA"  means  the  Borrower's  agencyfor  delivery  of  integrated  public  services
establishedpursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Council  of  Ministers  Decision  No.  693,  dated
October  22, 2014 (as amended)  or its legal  successor thereto.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits and Grants",
dated October  15,  2006and revised in January 2011.

"Bank's  Safeguards  Policies"  means  the  Bank's  operational  policies  and  procedures,  set
forth  in  the  Bank's  operational  manual  and  identified  as  OP/BP  4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10,
4.11,  4.12, 4.36, 4.37,  7.50 and 7.60,  as  said manual  is amended  from time to time.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Call  Center"  meansa  centralized  office  used  by  the  Borrower  to  respond  to  incoming
telephone  inquiries  about citizen'sadministrative  services.

"Citizen  Service  Center"  or  "CSC" means  the  designated  physical  space  where  citizens
obtain  services,  directly or indirectly  managed by  ADISA.

"Citizen  Centric  Service Delivery  Reform Program"  means  the Borrower's  proposed plan
forimproving  public  services  outlined  in  the  Reform  Policy  Document:  Innovation
against Corruption Program2016-2020.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  fBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and Grants  by  World Bank  Borrowers"
datedJanuary  2011  (revised July 2014).

"Disbursement-Linked  Indicators"  or  "DLIs"  means  a  set  of  indicators  specified  in
Annex  2  to  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  in the  Operations  Manual  (as  hereinafter
defined),  as  such  indicators  refer  to  specific  output  and  outcome  indicators  measuring
improved  quality and  access to  the Borrower's  administrative  services.

"DLI  Audit  Report"  means  any  of  the  reports  prepared  and  furnished  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to Section II.C. 1 (c)  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"DLI  Amount"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  proceeds  set  forth  in  the  rows  entitled
"DLI  Amount"  in  the  table  in  Annex  2  to  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  for  the
corresponding  calendar year.

"DLI  Progress  Report"  means  any  of  the  interimunaudited  reportswith  details  on  the
measurement  of the  level  of achievement  of the  DLIs  referred to  in  Section  II.C.  I (a)  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

- 24  -

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

"EEPs"  or  "Eligible  Expenditure  Programs"  means  a  set  of  defined  expenditures  for
salaries  and  Social  Security  Contributions  incurred  by  the  Borrower  in  connection  with
the  Participating  Agencies as indicatedunder  the Borrower'ssector budget linesset  forth  in
Schedule  4 to this  Agreement,  in respect of Parts  1(a), 2(a) and  3(a)  of the Project:

"E-filing"  means  an electronic  based  system for  the storage,  cataloguing,  and  retrieval  of
documents  in  which  citizens  can  file  applications  and  other  documents  via  a  webbased
interface.

the  Borrower's  plan
"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  "EMP"  means 
"Environmental Plan for new  Construction of Public Service  Mall "datedApril  2015  in
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,including  guidance  for  mitigating  potential
environmental  impactswhich might  arise from  carrying  out  minor  refurbishments  of front
officesunder  Part  2  (c)  of the  Project,  giving  details  of measures  to  manage  potential
environmental  risks  and  mitigate,  reduce  and/or  offset  adverse  environmental  impacts,
together  with  adequate  institutional,  monitoring  and  reporting  arrangements  capable  of
ensuring  proper  implementation  of, and  regular  feedback  on  compliance  with,  its  terms,
as  such  plan may  be  amended  and/or  supplemented  from  time to  time  with prior written
approval  of the Bank.

"E-payment"  means electronic  payments  made for  online transactions.

"FY"  means  the Borrower's  Fiscal Year

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions 
modifications  set forth  in Section  II of this Appendix.

the 

"International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction  and
for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the

"General  Directorate  of Civil  Status"  means  the  Borrower's  civil  registries  established
and  operating  pursuant  to  Law  No.  10129  dated  November  11,  2009  (as  amended)or  its
legal successor  thereto.

"ICT" means  Information Communication Technology.

"Institutional  Prerequisites  for  Citizen  Centric  Service  Delivery  Reform  Program"
meansthe  actions  and activities  referred to  in Part  3 (a) of the  Project.

"Inter-Ministerial  Public  Service  Committee"  or  "IPSC" means  a  committee  established
by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Order No.  176  dated  October  16,  2013  for coordinating  and
overseeing  the  process  of  introducing  reforms  in  public  services,  and  referred  to  in
Section I.A.4 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"IPRO"  means  the  Borrower's  Immovable  Property  Registration  Officeor  its  legal
successor thereto.

including
"Level  3  Automation"  means  services  with  transactional  web  presence, 
electronic  authentication,  e-filing  and  e-payments  and defined  in the  UN  e-Government
http://unpan3.un.org/egovkb/Portals/egovkb/Documents/un/2014-Survev/E-
(2014): 
Survey 
Gov  Complete  Survey-2014.pdf.

- 25  -

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

"MI"  means the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Interior  or its  legal successor  thereto.

"Ministerial  Working  Groups"  means  a  group  of ministerial  officials  established  and
operating pursuant  to  the Prime Minister's  Order, No. 236  dated September  24,  2014  and
referred to  in Section  1.A.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"MIPA"  means 
Administration  or  itslegal  successor thereto.

the  Borrower's  Minister  of  State 

for  Innovation  and  Public

"National  Agency  for  Information  Society"  means  an  institution  established  pursuant  to
the Decision  of the Council  of Ministers, No. 703  dated  December 29, 2014 (as  amended)
or the  legal successor  thereto.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  incremental  expenses  arising  under  the  Project
and  consisting  of expenditures  for  the  maintenance  of equipment,  purchasing  of office
equipment,  supplies,  communication  costs,  advertising  and  fuel  costs  for  field  visits
(excluding  salaries of Government  civil servants).

"Operations  Manual"  means  the Borrower's  manual  satisfactory  to the  Bank  and adopted
by  the  Borrower,  and  referred  to  in  Section  1.A.5  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,
including  all appendices  and schedules thereto,  as the same  may be amended  from time  to
time with the prior written  approval  of the Bank.

"Participating  Agencies"  means  the  following  Borrower's  institutions,  namely,  ADISA,
IPRO,  National  Agency  for  Information  Society  and  Ministry  of  Interior's  General
Directorate  of Civil Status.

"PMU" means  the  Project Management  Unit  referred to  in  Section  I.A. 1 of Schedule 2  to
this  Agreement.

"Preparation  Advance"  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  Section  2.07  (a)  of the  General
Conditions,  granted  by  the  Bank/  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  executed  letter
agreement  approved by  Parliament on June  11,  2015.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits  and Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  datedJanuary  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated  June
18,  2015  and  referred  to in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and paragraph
1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with the  provisions of said paragraphs.

"PSC" means  the Project  Steering Committee  referred to  in  Section  1.A.2  of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement.

"Selected  Administrative  Services"  means the  list  of services  selected  by the Borrower  in
accordance  with  criteria set  forth in the Operations  Manual,  as the  same may  be amended
from to  time  with the Bank's prior  written concurrence.

- 26  -

38. 

39. 

1. 

2. 

"Social  Security  Contribution"  means  a  financial  contribution  provided  by the  Borrower
for  the  citizens'  benefits  in  accordance  with  Law.  No.  7703  dated  May  11,  1993  (as
amended).

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  associated  with  the training,  workshops  and  study
tours,  participation  of personnel  involved  in  Project  activities,  said  costs  to  consist  of
travel  and  subsistence  for training,  costs associated  with  securing the  services  of trainers,
rental  of training  and  workshop  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of training  and
workshop  materials,  and  other  costs  directly  related  to  training  courses  (but  excluding
costs of consulting services).

Section II. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are  hereby modified as  follows:

In the  Table of Contents, the references  to Sections,  Section names and  Section numbers
are modified to  reflect the  modifications  set forth  in the paragraphs  below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Banka  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate  specified  in the  Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment Charge").  The Commitment Charge  shall  accrue  from a  date sixty
days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective  dates  on  which
amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.
The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each
Payment Date."

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and paragraphs
are modified,  as necessary,  to reflect the modification  set forth  in paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following definition
of "Commitment Charge",  and renumbering  the subsequent paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

