OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8353-BR

Loan Agreement

(Espirito  Santo  Integrated Sustainable Water Management  Project -
Programa de Gestdo Integrada das Aguas e da Paisagem do Espirito Santo)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

STATE  OF ESPIRITO  SANTO

Dated 

,g 

, 2015

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

rAf 2015,  between  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  "Bank")  and  the  STATE  OF
ESPIRITO  SANTO  (the "Borrower").  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

a 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as defined  in the Appendix  to this  Agreement)  constitute
an integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings  ascribed  to them  in the General  Conditions  or in the  Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions  set  forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of two  hundred  twenty  five  million
Dollars  ($225,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through a  Currency  Conversion in accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 2.07
of this Agreement  ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule
1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in accordance  with Section
IV  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.  The Borrower's  Representative  for purposes
of taking any  action required  or permitted to be taken pursuant to this  Section is its
Secretary  of Finance.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee payable  by the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread
provided,  that upon  a  Conversion of all or  any portion of the  principal amount  of
the Loan,  the  interest payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be calculated as provided in Section  3.02 (e)  of the General
Conditions.

2.05.  The  Payment Dates are February  15  and August  15  in each year.

2.06.  The principal amount  of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance  with the provisions

of Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time,  in  each  case  with prior  non-objection  of
the  Guarantor,  through  the  Secretariat  of  the  National  Treasury  of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions
of the terms  of the Loan in order  to facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the interest  rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from a Variable  Rate to a  Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B) all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread to a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Reference Rate  and
the Variable  Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to  a Variable Rate based  on a Fixed Spread;  and  (iii) the setting  of
limits on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate applicable  to  all or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn and  outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable Rate  or the  Reference Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this Section that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from the  Loan Account  and  pay to  itself the  amounts
required to  pay any premium payable  in accordance  with  Section 4.05  (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated  from time to time for
the purpose  in the table  in Section IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower shall:

-2-

through  C-GIP,  coordinate  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  and  carry  out
Part 4  of the Project;

through  SEAMA,  carry  out  Parts  1 (excluding  1 (g))  and  3  (a)  of the
Project;  and

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

cause:

(i) 

(ii) 

CESAN  to  carry out Parts  1 (g)  and 2  of the Project;  and

INCAPER to carry  out Part  3 (b)  of the  Project;

all in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article V of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that
CESAN  and/or INCAPER  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with any  of its  obligations
under the pertinent Subsidiary Agreement,  so as to affect  materially and adversely,
in the  opinion of the  Bank, the Borrower's  ability to perform  its obligations  under
this  Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following, namely,  that any
of  the  events  specified  in  paragraph  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  and  is
continuing  for a period  of 120 days after notice of the event  has been given by the
Bank to  the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Legal Matters  consist  of the following:

(a) 

that  the Borrower, through a legal opinion  satisfactory to  the Bank,  issued
by  the  Borrower's  counsel  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  indicates  that  the
CESAN  Subsidiary Agreement  and the INCAPER  Subsidiary Agreement
have been duly authorized  or ratified by,  executed  and delivered  on behalf
of the  Borrower  and  is legally  binding  upon the  Borrower  in  accordance
with  its respective  terms;

-3-

(b) 

that  CESAN  and  INCAPER,  through  a  legal  opinion  satisfactory  to  the
Bank, issued by  CESAN  and  INCAPER's  respective  counsels, acceptable
to the Bank,  indicate that  its pertinent Subsidiary Agreement  has been duly
authorized  by,  and  executed  and  delivered  on  behalf  of  CESAN  and
INCAPER  and  is  legally binding  upon  CESAN  and  INCAPER, all  as the
case  may  be,  in accordance  with  its respective terms;  and

(c) 

that  the Loan  has been  duly registered  with the Guarantor's  Central  Bank.

5.02.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness

Deadline  is the  date  ninety (90)  days  after the date  of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

in  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement, 

the  Borrower's

6.01. 

Except  as  provided 
Representative  is  its  Governor.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  address  is:

Govemo do Estado do  Espirito  Santo
Praga Joao  Climaco,  s/n - PalAcio  Anchieta
29015-110  Vit6ria, Espirito  Santo
Brazil
Facsimile:  (55-27)  3636-1036

With copy to:

Minist6rio  do  Planejamento,  Orgamento  e  Gestdo
SEAIN  - Secretaria  de Assuntos  Intemacionais
Esplanada dos Minist6rios  - Bloco  K - 50 andar
70040-906  Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Facsimile:  (55-61)  2020-5006

Secretaria  da Fazenda
Av. Jer6nimo  Monteiro,  96 - 70  andar
29010-002  Vit6ria,  Espirito  Santo
Brazil
Facsimile:  (55-27)  3636-3885

-4-

6.03. 

The Bank's  address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
of the day  and  year first above  written. 

6W&ULe,_  &4Y 

/1

,  as

INTERNATIONAL  B 
RECONSTRUCTIO 

K  FOR
D  DEV  OPMENT

By

Authorized  Representative

STATE  OF  ESPiRITO  SANTO

By 

I, 

IA 

\

Authorized  Representative

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (a)  improve  sustainable  water  resources

management,  and (b)  increase  access  to sanitation,  in the Borrower's territory.

The Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part  1:  Integrated  Water Management  and Disaster Risk Management

Improve  water  resource  management  and  metropolitan  coordination  and planning
mechanisms  for  the  management  of urban  water,  and  develop  adequate  planning  and
monitoring  instruments  for risk reduction  as well  as  preparedness  and response to  adverse
natural events  in the Borrower's  territory,  by:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Developing a State  Water Resources  Management  Plan.

Developing  and/or  revising River  Basin Management  Plans  for  the  River
Basins.
Strengthening  the  Borrower's hydrological  and water  quality monitoring
network  and  institutional  capacity  by,  inter  alia,  (i)  expanding  and
and
upgrading 
(ii)  expanding  the  Borrower's  capacity  to  monitor  its  water  sources  and
coastal  pollution  for  water  resources  planning  by  establishing  a  water
strengthening
laboratory  within  SEAMA, 
quality  analyses 
environmental  and  water resources  management.

the  Borrower's  hydrological  monitoring  network, 

and 

Strengthening  coastline  management  by  implementing  the  Borrower's
coastline modeling  system.

Mapping  groundwater  resources  by  developing  an  online  platform  for
individual  self-reporting  of well  and  groundwater  usage  in  the Borrower's
territory.

(i)  developing  a  state  environmental
Strengthening  SEAMA  by 
management  plan,  (ii) providing  training  on  environmental  and  water
resources  management  and  on  integrated  urban  water  management,
(iii) developing  studies  on,  and  designs  for,  the  development  of  an
(iv)  acquiring
environmental  management 
equipment  for SEAMA's environmental  management  information  system.

information  system,  and 

(g) 

Strengthening  the Borrower's  capacity  in formulating  state  and  municipal
public policies  in integrated urban water management  in the GVMR.

-6-

(h) 

Strengthening  the  Borrower's  disaster risk  management  capacity  by,  inter
alia: (i) developing  methodologies  and  guidelines  for  assessing  hazard,
vulnerability  and  risk;  (ii) developing  guidelines  for  incorporating  risk
into territorial  planning and public  investments, including the carrying  out
of workshops;  (iii)  designing and implementing  an  integrated  information
system  to  identify  and  monitor  risks;  (iv) strengthening  the  State  Civil
Defense  System  and 
the  State  Monitoring  and  Alert  Center;  and
(v) establishing  an integrated  operations  center.

Part 2:  Efficient Water  Supply Services  and  Increased  Access to  Sanitation

Increase  the  efficiency  of water  supply  services  and  the  coverage  of  sewage

collection and  treatment  services  in the Borrower's  territory by,  inter alia:

Developing an operational  efficiency  strategic plan for CESAN.

Carrying  out:  (i)  sewerage  investments  for  wastewater  collection  and
treatment  in  Selected  Urban  Areas,  and  (ii) 
its  Household  Sewerage
Connection  Program,  including supervision  thereof.

Part 3:  Watershed  Management  and Restoration  of Forest Cover

Improve 

the  quality  of  surface  and  coastal  waters 

through  coordinated

interventions in  selected  watersheds  in the Borrower's  territory by,  inter alia:

Inducing  land  use  change  in  selected  watersheds  by  supporting  and
extending  implementation  of, and  strengthening  the  Borrower's  capacity
in implementing,  Reflorestar.

in 

Implementing  the Mangarai  River Pilot aimed  at reducing  sediment  load
originating 
the  Mangarai  River  Sub-watershed,  by  combining
reforestation  and improved  land  management  (through  Reflorestar) with
interventions  that  include improvements  to roads'  construction,  operation
and  management,  as well as to water  supply, sanitation and  solid waste in
the  Mangarai  River  Sub-watershed, 
including  impact  evaluations  of
selected interventions.

Part 4:  Project Management,  Supervision  and Institutional  Strengthening

Strengthening  the  Borrower's  capacity  in  Project  management  and
implementation, 
including  the  provision  of  training  and  technical
assistance  for  the  carrying  out  of  activities  associated  with  Project
execution,  monitoring  and evaluation  of the  Project  and the  provision  of
technical,  administrative  and  financial  management  support  for  Project
supervision.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

-7-

(b) 

Strengthening  ARSI's  capacity  by developing  an  economic  and  financial
regulatory model for water supply  and sewerage  services.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

The Borrower shall,  until  completion  of the Project:

(a) 

(b) 

operate  and maintain  the  Project Steering  Committee, with qualified  staff
in  adequate  numbers,  funds  and  resources,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to
enable  it  to  execute  its  consultative  and  decision  making  powers  for
carrying  out  the  general  supervision  of  the  Project,  and  for  developing
strategies  during Project implementation;

operate  and  maintain  an Executive  Secretariat,  headed by the Borrower's
Subsecretaria de  Captaqdo de  Recursos, to  assist 
the  Project  Steering
Committee  the  Coordenagdo Institucional and C-GIP  in  the  carrying  out
of  its  respective  functions  under  the  Project,  and  to  be  responsible  for
accompanying  Project  implementation  and liaising  with  the  Bank  on the
Borrower's  obligations  under the  Project,  including  procurement  matters
and  implementation  of the Procurement  Plan (including  the use of SEPA);

(c) 

operate and maintain  SEG, with qualified  staff in adequate numbers,  funds
and resources,  acceptable  to  the Bank, to  enable  it to carry out:

(i)  the  coordination  of  the  Project  in  its  capacity  as  the  Coordenaqdo

Institucional; and

(ii)  the  necessary budget  planning in  accordance  with the plans  approved
by  the  Project  Steering  Committee  and  requested  by  C-GIP  and  the
arrangements  for  budgeting  and  transferring  funds  and  resources  to
enable the  execution  of the Project pursuant  to C-GIP's  requests;

(d) 

operate  and  maintain  C-GIP  within  the  Coordenaqdo Institucional with
qualified staff in  adequate numbers  headed by a project  coordinator, funds
and  resources,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  enable  C-GIP  to  discharge  its
responsibilities  under  the  Project  which  include,  inter alia, the  overall
executive  coordination  of the  Project,  management,  planning,  oversight,
evaluation  and  dissemination  of results,  financial  management  under the
Project;  and

(e) 

operate  and  maintain  the  Project  Management  Unit  within  C-GIP,  with
qualified  staff  in  adequate  numbers  (including,  inter  alia,  a  project

-9-

2. 

3. 

4. 

manager,  one  staff  to  carry  out  administrative-financial  management
responsibilities,  one staff to  carry  out procurement, and  one  staff to carry
out environmental  and social supervision),  funds and resources,  acceptable
to  the  Bank,  to  enable  the  Project  Management  Unit  to  discharge  its
responsibilities  which include,  inter alia, the carrying  out  of the  financial
management  aspects  of  the  Project  and  the  overall  management,
coordination,  execution,  procurement,  supervision,  and  monitoring  and
evaluation  of the  Project.

The  Borrower  shall,  through  the  Project  Steering  Committee,  establish,  and
thereafter  operate and maintain, until completion of the Project, a Special Bidding
Commission,  with:  (a)  functions  and  responsibilities,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
including  the responsibility  to  ensure  the  carrying  out of the procurement  aspects
under the Project; and (b) adequate professional and administrative assistance, and
consisting  of  representatives  from  CESAN,  SEAMA,  SECONT,  SEDURB,
SEPAM,  Subsecretaria de Estado de Saneamento e Habitaqdo and the  Executive
Secretariat.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  CESAN  and  INCAPER  to  maitain  adequate  staff in
sufficient  numbers,  acceptable  to  the Bank,  to  carry  out  the  activities  under  the
Project  which  fall  within  their  respective  administrative  jurisdiction,  and  to
operate,  at  all  times  during  Project  implementation,  with  powers,  functions,
capacity  and  resources  satisfactory to  the  Bank to  discharge  such functions  under
the
the  Project 
Operational  Manual  and the pertinent provisions  of this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the  respective  Subsidiary  Agreement, 

The Borrower shall  carry out Parts  1 (excluding  1 (g))  and 3 (a)  of the Project, and
shall  cause  CESAN  and  INCAPER  to  carry  out  the  activities  under  the  Project
which fall  within their  respective  administrative jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with
the  Operational  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  which shall  include,  inter alia:
(a) detailed  description  of the  roles  and  responsibilities  of CESAN,  INCAPER,
SEAMA,  Coordenaqdo Institucional, C-GIP,  Executive  Secretariat,  and  Project
(b)  specific  details  on  monitoring  and  evaluation
Steering  Committee; 
responsibilities  under  the  Project,  including  data  collection  requirements,  and
timing;  (c)  implementation  arrangements,  including  financial  management  and
procurement  arrangements  and  guidelines;  (d) the  monitoring  indicators  for  the
Project;  and  (e)  a  summary  of  the  environmental  and  social  procedures  and
instruments  adopted  by the  Borrower, CESAN  and INCAPER.  In the  event  that
any provision  of the  Operational  Manual  shall  conflict  with  this Agreement,  the
terms  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

-10-

5. 

(a) 

For the  purpose  of carrying out Part  3 (a)  of the Project,  and prior to  the
provision  of any  Environmental  Services,  the  Borrower  shall,  through
SEAMA,  enter into an Environmental  Services Agreement with each Land
User on terms and conditions,  acceptable to the Bank, which shall include,
inter alia, the  obligation of said  Land  User  to  comply  with the pertinent
provisions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement,  including  compliance  with  the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and  the  provisions  set forth in  Section  I.C  of
this  Schedule,  as applicable.

(b) 

The Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights and carry out its obligations  under
each Environmental  Services  Agreement  in  such manner as to protect  the
interests of the  Borrower and the Bank and to  accomplish the purposes  of
the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any
Environmental  Services  Agreement  or any of their provisions thereof.

Subsidiary  Agreement

B. 

1 .

To  facilitate the carrying out of Parts  1 (g)  and  2 of the Project by CESAN,  and of
Part  3  (b)  of  the  Project  by  INCAPER,  the  Borrower  shall  make  part  of  the
proceeds  of the Loan  available to  CESAN  and to INCAPER,  respectively, under  a
separate  Subsidiary  Agreement  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  each
CESAN  and INCAPER (the "CESAN  Subsidiary Agreement" and the "INCAPER
Subsidiary Agreement",  respectively),  all under terms  and conditions  approved by
the Bank, which  shall include:

(a) 

the  obligation  of CESAN  and  INCAPER  to:  (i)  carry  out  the  activities
which  fall  within  its  respective  administrative  jurisdiction  under  the
Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with sound
technical,  economic,  environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices
satisfactory to the Bank (as the case may be),  including in accordance  with
the  provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;  (ii)  maintain  adequate
staff in sufficient  numbers  to  carry  out its  respective  parts of the  Project,
with powers, functions,  capacity  and resources  satisfactory  to the  Bank to
discharge such functions under the Project in accordance with the pertinent
Subsidiary  Agreement  and  the  Operational  Manual;  (iii) comply  with the
pertinent  provisions  of this  Agreement  as  applicable  to  CESAN  and/or
INCAPER;  (iv)  provide promptly,  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for
the  carrying  out  of  its  respective  parts  of  the  Project;  (v)  (1) carry  out
certain  procurement  responsibilities  for procuring  the goods,  works,  non-
consulting  services  and  consultants'  services  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  transferred  to  CESAN  and/or  INCAPER 
in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement;  and  (2)  have  the
procurement  of  those  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and
consultants'  services  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the

- 11 -

Bank,  in accordance  with terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank, and
furnish the resulting audit report to the Bank not later than six months after
the  end  of each one  fiscal year  of the Borrower;  (vi) maintain procedures
adequate to enable it  to monitor and evaluate in accordance  with indicators
acceptable  to the Bank, the  progress of their respective parts of the Project
and  the  achievement  of  its  objectives;  (vii)  (1)  maintain  a  simplified
financial management  system and records  in accordance with consistently
applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  both  in  a  manner
adequate  to  reflect  the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  related  to
their  respective  parts  of  the  Project;  and  (2)  at  the  Bank's  or  the
Borrower's  request,  have  the  resulting  financial  statements  audited  by
to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with
independent  auditors  acceptable 
consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and
promptly  furnish  the  statements  as  so  audited  to  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank;  (viii) enable  the  Borrower  and/or the  Bank  to  inspect  the  carrying
out of its respective  parts  of the Project, its respective  operations  and any
relevant  records  and  documents;  and  (ix) prepare  and  furnish  to  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank  all  such  information  as  the  Borrower  and/or  the
Bank shall reasonably  request relating  to the  foregoing;  and

(b) 

the  Borrower's  rights  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of  the  Bank,
including  the  right  to  suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  CESAN  and/or
INCAPER  to  use the  proceeds  of the  Loan transferred  to  CESAN  and/or
INCAPER,  or obtain a refund of all or any part of such amount of the Loan
then withdrawn,  upon CESAN  and/or INCAPER's  failure  to perform any
of its obligations  under the respective  Subsidiary Agreement.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the
pertinent  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such manner  as  to  protect  the interests  of the
Borrower  and the Bank and to accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.  Except as the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,
terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Subsidiary  Agreement  or  any  of their
provisions  thereof.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

-12-

Safeguards

D. 

1. 

Environmental  Management  Framework  and  Environmental  Management
Plan

The Borrower  shall  implement  Parts  1 (excluding  1 (g))  and  3 (a)  of the Project,
and  cause  CESAN  and  INCAPER to  carry  out  the  activities  which fall  within  its
respective  administrative  jurisdiction  under  the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the
Environmental  Management Framework and Environmental  Management  Plan, all
in a manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

2. 

Involuntary Resettlement  Framework and Involuntary Resettlement  Plan

(a) 

(b) 

The Borrower  shall  implement  Parts  1 (excluding  1 (g))  and 3 (a)  of the
Project, and cause CESAN  and INCAPER to carry out the activities which
fall  within  its  respective  administrative jurisdiction  under  the  Project,  in
accordance  with the Involuntary  Resettlement  Framework, and implement
and/or  cause to be  implemented,  the Involuntary  Resettlement Plan or the
pertinent resettlement  action plan, all in a  manner acceptable  to the Bank.

The  Borrower,  shall  ensure,  and/or  cause  CESAN  and  INCAPER  to
ensure,  that  the  terms  of reference  for any  consultancy  in respect  of any
Project  activity  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  following  its  review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference  shall  duly incorporate  the
requirements  of  the  Bank  Safeguards  Policies  then  in  force  and  as
applicable.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators  set forth in the Operational  Manual.  Each
Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not later  than  45  calendar  days  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by such report.

B. 

1 .

Financial Management, Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

- 13-

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish to  the  Bank  not  later  than  45  calendar  days  after  the  end  of
each  calendar  year  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project
covering the  quarter, in form and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements shall cover the period of one  fiscal year of the Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such period  shall be furnished  to  the Bank
not later than six months  after the end  of such period.

Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the  Project and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and to
be  financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines, or Sections II,  III,  IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the  case may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as otherwise provided in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded on the  basis of International  Competitive Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding, which may be  used for goods, works  and non-
consulting  services.  The Procurement  Plan  shall  specify the  circumstances  under
which  such methods may be used:

-14-

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding  (including  the  method  known  as  "pregdo
eletr6nico", as provided  in  the  Guarantor's  Law  No.  10520,  of July  17,
2002, under  any e-procurement  system acceptable  to  the Bank),  subject  to
the  following  additional  procedure,  namely,  that  the  bidding  documents
shall be acceptable  to  the Bank

(b)  Shopping
(c)  Framework  Agreements
(d)  Direct  Contracting
(e)  Community  Participation  in  Procurement  procedures,  as  set  forth  in  the

Operational  Manual

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the circumstances  under which such methods  may be used:

Procurement Method

(a) Quality-based  Selection
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget
(c)  Least  Cost  Selection
(d)  Selection based on Consultants'  Qualifications
(e)  Single  Source Selection
(f)  Selection of Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts which  shall be subject  to  the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds  of  the Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article II  of the General Conditions, this  Section, and such additional

- 15-

instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated May  2006, as  revised
from time to  time by the Bank and  as made applicable  to  this Agreement  pursuant
to  such instructions),  to  finance Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth in the  table in
paragraph  2 below.

2. 

The following  table specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the Loan to  each  Category, and  the percentage  of expenditures  to be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category.

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Goods, works, consulting
services,  non-consulting
services  and  Training under
Part 1 of the Project
(2)  Works under Part  2 of the

Proj ect

Proect133,400,000 

(3)  Goods,  consulting services,

non-consulting  services  and 
Training  under Part 2 of the
Project

(4)  Goods,  works, non-

consulting, consulting
services  and Training under
Part 3 (b) of the Project
(5)  Environmental  Services

Payments  under Part 3 (a) 
of the Project

(6)  Goods,  consulting  services,
non-consulting  services  and 
Training under Part 4 of the
Project

(7)  Front-end Fee 

(8)  Interest  Rate Cap or Interest 

Rate  Collar premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

225,000,000

65%

80%

50%

100%

Amount payable pursuant
to  Section  2.03 of this
Agreement  in accordance
with Section 2.07  (b)  of
the General Conditions
Amount due  pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

8,100,000 

6,337,500 

23,800,000 

562,500 

- 16-

3. 

For  the purposes  of this  Schedule:

(a) 

(b) 

the  term "Training"  means  expenditures,  other than those for  consultants'
services,  incurred  in connection  with  the provision of training,  including
trainers'  fees,  logistics, materials,  and the reasonable recurrent travel  costs
and  per diem of participants;  and

the term "Environmental  Services Payment" means the payments  made by
SEAMA  to Land  Users  under Reflorestar in exchange  for  Environmental
Services  provided by said Land  Users.

B. 

1 .

2. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed  $20,000,000 equivalent  may
be made  for payments  made prior to this  date but on or after October  1, 2013,  for
Eligible Expenditures.

The  Closing Date is April  30, 2021.  The Bank will only grant  an extension  of the
Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has informed  the Bank that
it agrees  with  such extension.

-17-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount  of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the  Installment  Share for each Principal  Payment Date, such
repayable  amount  to be adjusted,  as necessary, to  deduct  any  amounts  referred to
in paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to which a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

February  15,  2015 
August  15,  2015 
February  15,  2016 
August  15,  2016 
February  15,  2017 
August  15,  2017 
February  15,  2024 
August  15,  2024 
February 15,  2025 
August  15,  2025 
February  15,  2026 
August  15,  2026 
February  15,  2027 
August 15,  2027 
February  15,  2028 
August  15,  2028 
February  15,  2029 
August  15,  2029 
February  15,  2030 
August  15,  2030 
February  15,  2031 
August 15,  2031 
February  15,  2032 
August  15,  2032 
February  15,  2033 
August  15,  2033 
February  15,  2034 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)
0.22%
0.22%
1.02%
1.02%
1.02%
1.02%
1.42%
1.42%
1.42%
1.42%
1.42%
1.42%
1.42%
1.42%
3.64%
3.64%
3.64%
3.64%
3.64%
3.64%
3.77%
3.77%
3.77%
3.77%
3.77%
3.77%
3.77%

- 18 -

Principal Payment Date 

August  15,  2034 
February  15,  2035 
August  15,  2035 
February  15,  2036 
August  15,  2036 
February  15,  2037 
August  15,  2037 
February  15,  2038 
August  15,  2038 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)
3.77%
4.00%
4.00%
4.00%
4.00%
4.00%
4.00%
4.00%
4.12%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have not been fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent  that any proceeds  of the Loan have been withdrawn  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn  within two  calendar months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal  and  shall be repayable  on each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions

-19-

3. 

(a) 

of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the  adoption of such billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all or  any  portion of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any Principal Payment Date  occurring during  the Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination immediately  prior to  the Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the Conversion;  or  (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange rate  component of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is denominated  in more  than one Loan  Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule  shall  apply separately to the amount  denominated
in each Loan Currency,  so as  to produce a  separate amortization  schedule for each
such amount.

-20-

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and IDA
Credits and  Grants", dated  October  15,  2006,  and revised  in January  2011.

"ARSI"  means Agincia Reguladora de Saneamento Bdsico e Infraestrutura Vidria
do  Espirito Santo, the  Borrower's  Regulatory  Agency  for Water,  Sanitation  and
Road  Infrastructure  related  to  SEDURB,  created  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's
complementary  law No. 477, dated  December 29,  2008, as amended to  the date of
this Agreement,  or any successor thereof.

"Bank Safeguards Policies" means the Bank's operational  policies and procedures,
set  forth in the Bank's operational  manual  and identified as  OP/BP 4.01,  4.04,  4.09,
4.10.  4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60,  as  said  manual  is  published  under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means a category  set forth in  the table in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"CESAN"  means  Companhia Espirito Santense de Saneamento, the  Borrower's
sanitation  company,  created  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  law  No.  2.282,  dated
February  8, 1967,  as  amended to  the date of this Agreement.

"CESAN  Subsidiary  Agreement"  means the agreement  referred to in  Section I.B. 1
of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement,  or any successor  thereof.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.
"C-GIP" means the Borrower's  Coordena(do-Geral de Implementagdo do Projeto
established  pursuant 
the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  3450-R,  dated
December 4, 2013,  and  referred  to  in  Section I.A.1(d)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any successor thereof.

to 

to 

the  Borrower's  Decree  No. 

"Coordenagdo  Institucional"  means  the  Borrower's  Coordenaqdo Institucional
established  pursuant 
3450-R,  dated
December 4,  2013,  and  referred  to  in  Section I.A.1(c)  (i)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any successor  thereof.
"Environmental  Management  Framework"  means  the  framework  adopted  by the
Borrower  and  CESAN  on  October  3,  2013, 
and  by  INCAPER  on
October 4, 2013,  acceptable  to  the  Bank, as  published and  available  to the public

-21-

and  on 

at  http://www.cesan.com.br/, 

on  the  Borrower's  website  at  http://www.meioambiente.es.gov.br/,  on CESAN's
INCAPER's  website  at
website 
which  contains  the  environmental  protection
http://www.incaper.es.gov.br/, 
measures  in respect  of the Project, including:  (a)  guidelines  for works  and activities
further  detailed  and  identified  during  Project  implementation,  related  studies  and
policy  work;  (b)  good  practices  and  procedures  for  treatment  of  Quilombola
communities  in accordance  to  national  and  local  legislation;  (c) the  identification
indirect
of  existing  environmental  conditions  and  potential  direct  and 
environmental  impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project;  (d) guidelines
for  the  carrying  out  of  environmental  assessments  and  the  preparation  of
environmental  management  plans,  when  applicable;  (e)  the  recommendation  of
mitigation  measures  for  each  negative  impact  identified;  and  (f)  measures  for
enhancing  each  identified  positive  impact,  as  said  framework  may  be amended
from time to  time with  the Bank's prior approval.

"Environmental  Management Plan"  means the plan adopted by the  Borrower and
CESAN  on October  3, 2013,  and by INCAPER on October  4, 2013,  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  as published  and  available  to  the  public  on  the  Borrower's  website  at
at
http://www.meioambiente.es.gov.br/, 
at
and 
http://www.cesan.com.br/, 
the  environmental  protection
http://www.incaper.es.gov.br/,  which  contains 
measures  applicable  to  the  Project,  including:  (a)  protection  of natural  habitats;
(b) forests;  (c)  pest management;  and  (d) protection of physical  cultural resources,
as said plan may be amended from time  to time with the  Bank's prior approval.

CESAN's 
INCAPER's 

website 
website 

on 

on 

"Executive  Secretariat"  means  the  Borrower's  secretariat  established  pursuant  to
the  Borrower's  Decree No.  3450-R,  dated  December  4, 2013,  and  referred  to  in
Section I.A. 1(b)  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Environmental  Services"  means the  services  provided  by Land  Users  including,
inter alia, reforestation,  forest  conservation,  and  adoption  of  environmentally
friendly  productive land uses such as agroforestry and/or  silvopastoral practices.

"Environmental  Services Agreement"  means  any of the agreements  referred  to  in
Section  I.A.5  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

"GVMR"  means  the  Greater  Vit6ria  Metropolitan  Region  in  the  Borrower's
territory.

"Household  Sewerage  Connection Program" means CESAN's  "Programa se Liga
na Rede " dated  May  30, 2012,  to  increase  household sewerage  connection  in the
Borrower's  territory.

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

-22-

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"INCAPER"  means  Instituto  Capixaba de  Pesquisa, Assistincia  T&nica  e
Extensdo  Rural,  the  Borrower's  Rural  Technical  Assistance,  Research  and
Extension  Institute,  created  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  law  No.  3.006,  dated
November  11,  1975,  as  amended  to  the date  of this  Agreement,  or  any successor
thereof.

"INCAPER  Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section
I.B. 1 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Involuntary  Resettlement  Framework"  means  the  framework  adopted  by  the
Borrower and  CESAN  on October  3, 2013,  and by INCAPER on October  4, 2013,
acceptable  to the Bank, as published  and  available to  the public on the Borrower's
website  at  http://www.meioambiente.es.gov.br/, 
on  CESAN's  website  at
http://www.cesan.com.br/, 
at
http://www.incaper.es.gov.br/,  outlining  general 
implementation  procedures,
mitigation measures and monitoring procedures  for involuntary resettlement  under
the  Project,  including  the  procedures  for the  preparation  and  implementation  of
resettlement plans, as said framework  may be amended  from time to time  with the
Bank's  prior approval.

INCAPER's 

website 

and 

on 

"Involuntary  Resettlement  Plan"  means  the plan  adopted  by  CESAN  on October
3, 2013,  acceptable  to  the  Bank, as  published  and  available  to  the  public  on  the
CESAN's website at http://www.cesan.com.br/,  for involuntary resettlement under
the  Project,  and/or any  other plan, all  prepared  following  the requirements  of the
Involuntary  Resettlement  Framework,  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  CESAN
and/or  INCAPER,  as the case  may be,  during  Project  implementation,  acceptable
to the  Bank.

"Land User" means an individual or entity using the land or a land owner providing
Environmental  Services,  according  to  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual.

"Mangarai  River Pilot" means the Borrower's  pilot program to reduce  silt loads in
the Magarai  River  Sub-watershed.

"Mangarai  River  Sub-watershed"  means  the  sub-watershed  of  approximately
17.400  hectares  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  located  within  the  Santa Maria da
Vit6ria  river  basin,  with  87  percent  of  said  sub-watershed  located  in  the
municipality  of Santa Leopoldina and  13  percent of said  sub-watershed  located  in
the  municipality of Cariacica.

"Operational  Manual"  means the Borrower's  manual  dated February  11,  2014, for
the  operation  of the  Project  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

-23-

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated January 2011.

"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
February  7,  2014 and referred  to in paragraph  1.18  of the Procurement  Guidelines
and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated  from
time to time in accordance  with the provisions of said paragraphs.

"Project  Management  Unit" means  Unidade de Gerenciamento de Projeto - UGP,
the  unit  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  3450-R,  dated
December 4, 2013,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1(e)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Project  Steering  Committee"  means  Comit  Diretivo do  Programa de  Gestdo
Integrada das Aguas  e  da  Paisagem, the  Borrower's  committee  assigned  with
consultative  and decision making  powers for carrying out  the general  supervision
of  the  Project  and  for  establishing  strategies  during  Project  implementation  as
the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  3450-R,  dated
established  pursuant 
December 4, 2013,  and  referred  to  in  Section I.A.1(a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

to 

"Reflorestar"  means  the  Borrower's  program  of  payments  for  environmental
services  established by the Borrower's law  No. 9864, dated July 26,  2012.

"River  Basins"  means the  river basins  of Sdo Mateus, Ita6nas and Itapemirim in
the Borrower's  territory,  and/or  any other  river  basin  in  the  Borrower's  territory,
acceptable  to the  Bank, in addition to, or in substitution of, any of the river basins
referred  to herein.

"River  Basin  Management  Plans"  means  the  plans  identifying  and  targeting
priority investment  needs  for water resources  infrastructure,  and developing water
allocation  scenarios for River Basins, to be developed or revised under the Project.

"SEAMA"  means Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente  e Recursos Hidricos,
the  Borrower's  Secretariat  of  the  Environment  and  Water  Resources,  or  any
successor thereof.

"SECONT"  means  Secretaria de  Controle  e  Transparincia, the  Borrower's
Secretariat  for Control and  Transparency, or  any successor  thereof.

"SEDURB"  means  Secretaria  de  Estado  de  Saneamento,  Habitaqdo  e
Desenvolvimento Urbano, the  Borrower's  Secretariat  of Sanitation,  Housing  and
Urban Development,  or any successor thereof.

-24-

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

"SEG" means Secretaria de Estado de Governo, the Borrower's  State  Secretariat
of  Government,  or  any  successor 
the  institutional
coordination  of the Project pursuant  to the Borrower's  Decree No. 3450-R,  dated
December  4,  2013,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.l(c)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

thereof,  assigned  with 

"Selected  Urban  Areas"  means the municipalities  of Vila  Velha  and Cariacica in
GVMR, and  nine municipalities  located in  the interior  of the Borrower's  territory
in  the  Caparad region  and  the  Santa Maria da  Vit6ria and Jucu river  basins,
namely,  the  municipalities  of Ibatiba, Irupi, Dores do Rio Preto, Divino de  Sdo
Lourenqo,  Itna,  Conceiqdo  do  Castelo,  Santa  Maria  de  Jetibca,  Marechal
Floriano, Santa  Leopoldina,  and/or  any  other  municipality  in  the  Borrower's
territory,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  addition  to,  or  in substitution  of, any  of the
municipalities referred  to  herein.

"SEPA" means  the  Bank's procurement  plans  execution  system.

"SEPAM"  means  Secretaria Extraordindria de Projetos Especiais e Articulagdo
Metropolitana,  the  Borrower's  State  Secretariat  of  Special  Projects  and
Metropolitan  Management,  or any successor  thereof.

"Special  Bidding  Commission"  means  Comissdo  Especial de  Licitagdo,  the
Borrower's commission  established  by the Borrower's Portaria No. 002-S,  dated
February 6,  2014, and referred  to in Section I.A.2  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"State  Civil  Defense  System"  means  the  Borrower's  institutional  and  physical
infrastructure  to prepare for, and respond to,  disasters  and mitigate risks.

"State  Monitoring and Alert Center"  means the system used for monitoring  natural
hazards  and for alerting the  population at risk.

"State  Water  Resources  Management  Plan"  means  the  plan  establishing  strategic
objectives  for the  Borrower's  water  resources  sector,  including  identification  of
critical  areas  and specific  regional  needs in water  infrastructure  and the necessary
institutional  arrangements  and guidelines  for executing  the plan.

"Subsecretaria de  Estado de  Saneamento e  Habitaqdo" means  the  Borrower's
subsecretariat  for sanitation  and housing, established  within  SEDURB.

"Subsecretaria de  Captaqdo de Recursos " means  the Borrower's  subsecretariat
for revenue,  established  within SEPAM.

-25-

46. 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  either  the  CESAN  Subsidiary  Agreement  or  the
INCAPER  Subsidiary Agreement,  as the case may be, pursuant to  Section I.B. 1 of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

-26-

