OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8515-EC

Loan Agreement

(Sustainable  Family Farming Modernization  Project - Proyecto de Irrigación Tecn'ficada
para Pequeños y Medianos Productores y Productoras, como parte del Macro-Proyecto
"Fomento a la Producción Agrícola a través de la Implementación de Sistemas de Uso y
Aprovechamiento del Recurso Hídrico para el Desarrollo Rural y la Soberanía Alimentaria")

REPUBLIC  OF ECUADOR

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8515-EC

Loan Agreement

(Sustainable Family Farming Modernization  Project - Proyecto de Irrigacidn Tecnificada
para Pequehios y Medianos Productores y Productoras, como parte del Macro-Proyecto
"Fomento a la Producci6n Agricola a travis de la Implementacidn de Sistemas de Uso y
Aprovechamiento del Recurso Hidrico para el Desarrollo Ruraly la Soberania Alimentaria")

REPUBLIC  OF ECUADOR

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

O  T066t 

, 2015

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

the  REPUBLIC  OF
ECUADOR  ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower and the  Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

between 

,  2061 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have

the  meanings  ascribed  to  them in  the General  Conditions.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and conditions  set forth  or referred
to  in this  Agreement,  the amount  of eighty  million  United  States  Dollars ($80,000,000),  as
such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in
financing  the project  described  in Schedule  I  to this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee  not  later  than
60 days  after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The  intcrcst  payable  by  the Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be at  a rate equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid when  due and  such non-payment  continues  for a  period of thirty (30)  days, then  the
interest payable  by the Borrower shall  instead be calculated  as provided in  Section 3.02  (e)
of the  General  Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment  Dates are  June  15  and  December  15  in  each  year.

2.07.  The principal  amount of the Loan shall  be repaid in accordance  with amortization  schedule

set  forth in  Schedule  3 to  this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the interest
rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from a  Variable  Rate  to a  Fixed Rate,  or  vice versa; or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa; or (C)  all of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on  the Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate  applicable  to all or any portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding by  the establishment  of an Interest Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion requested pursuant  to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower,  through MAGAP,  declares  its commitment  to the objectives  of the Project.
To this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of
Article V  of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower and  the Bank shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall ensure  that the  Project
is  carried out  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF  THE BANK

4.01. 

The Co-financing  Deadline  for  the effectiveness  of the Co-financing  Agreement  is June  1,
2016, or such  later date as  the Bank shall  establish  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist  of the following:

(a) 

The  Operational  Manual  has  been  approved  by  the  Bank.

-2-

(b) 

The  central  unit  of the  PIU  has  been  established  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline is the date ninety  (90) days  after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its Ministry  of Finance.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Avenida  10 de  Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador

Facsimile: 

(5932)  2503-111
2558-232

6.03.  The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at 
first above written.

L1M A 

_ 

_l_-<._ 

, as  of the  day  and  year

REPUBLIC  OF ECU  DOR

By

Title: 

6 

O 

(,' 

ci

INTERNATIONAL  ANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTIO 

ND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Name: 

Title: 

1  -3 P 

-

~$LAe)
: 

-

J 

v 

'i 

?- 

t 

P(

-4-

SCHEDULE  I

Project  Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  enhance  incomes  of small  and  medium  sized  farm

households by  supporting more  productive  and  climate-smart  use for land  and  water.

The Project  consists  of the  following parts:

Part 1  Investments for  Climate-Smart Subprojects

Provision of support (including  pre-investment  studies, investment  and supervision)  for the

carrying  out of Climate-Smart  Subprojects  that  shall  comprise:

(a) 

Irrigation  modernization,  including:  (i)  individual  and/or  collective  small  water
investments  for  modernization  of  irrigation
storages  (ponds);  (ii)  on-farm 
techniques  (drip, sprinkler or modern  gravity techniques)  and;  (iii)  complementary
works  aiming at  improving  off-farm  irrigation  and drainage  networks;  and

(b) 

Complementary 
resources.

investments  supporting  sustainable  management  of  natural

Part 2  Capacity Buildin2  for Institutional Stakeholders  and Beneficiaries'  Organizations

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Provision  of technical  assistance  and  training  to  Water  Users  Organizations  and
Farmers  Organizations  on:  (i)  management  and  optimization  of off- and  on-farm
irrigation  systems  and  water  ponds;  (ii)  adoption  of good  agricultural  practices  to
and  post-harvest
and  productivity,  value-addition 
improve 
improvement  of  market  linkages  and  access  of  small-size
management;  (iii) 
producers  to  agricultural  value  chains;  and  (iv)  environmental  management  at
community  or farm  levels.

production 

Provision  of support  for  the  institutional  strengthening  of  the  main  institutional
stakeholders,  including  MAGAP's  central  and  regional  offices  and  GADs.
Provision  of  support  for,  inter  alia: (i)  the  preparation  of  studies  on  relevant
productive  systems,  agricultural  technologies  and  climate-smart  innovations;  (ii)
the analysis and mapping  of agricultural  value  chains; and (iii)  the characterization
of commercial  opportunities  to  improve  access to  markets  for  Beneficiaries.

Part 3  Proiect  MWanagement

Provision  of support  for the  activities  associated  with  overall  Project  management  by  the
Borrower  and  functioning  of  the  PIU  and  its  seven  Zonal  Zones,  including,  inter alia, Project-
related  audits,  monitoring  and  evaluation,  equipment,  small  works  for  the  refurbishing  of  Zonal
Offices,  technical  assistance,  training  and  staffing.

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arran2ements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall:

2. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

create  and  maintain, until completion  of the  Project  a central  unit within MAGAP,
responsible  for  the  management,  coordination,  supervision,  monitoring  and
evaluation  of the  Project;

not  later  than  twelve  (12)  months  after  Effectiveness  Date,  create  and  maintain
until  completion  of  Project  activities,  as  part  of  the  PlU,  seven  Zonal  Offices
covering 
territory,  responsible 
the  coordination  and
implementation  of Project's  activities  in  Selected  Provinces;  and

the  Borrower's 

for 

cause  the central  unit  and  its  seven  Zonal  Offices  referred  to  in  (a)  and  (b)  above
to  maintain,  until  completion  of the  Project,  a  structure,  responsibilities  and  key
staff  with  functions,  experience,  and  qualifications  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as
described 
in 
the  Operational  Manual, 
financial
management, 
technical  (hydraulics  and  agronomy),  environmental  and  social
specialists.

including:  procurement, 

financial, 

(c)  detailed  social,  economic, 

list  of  environmentally  sensitive  investments  (including 

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  a  manual  (the  Operational
Manual),  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the  rules,  methods,  guidelines,
standard  documents  and  procedures  for  the  carrying  out  the  Project,  including  the
following,  inter alia: (a)  the  detailed  description  of Project  implementation  activities  and
the  detailed  institutional  arrangements  of  the  Project;  (b)  criteria  and  methods  for  the
selection  of  Beneficiaries; 
technical  and
environmental  criteria  for the  evaluation  and  ranking  for selecting  Subprojects,  including
a  negative 
those  that  may
potentially  affect  International  Waterways)  ineligible  for financing under a  Subproject;  (d)
guidelines  for  the  adoption  of an  integrated  pest  management  approach  in  all  applicable
activities  to be  developed  under the  Project;  (e)  guidelines  to  follow in  case  of unexpected
findings  of objects  with  possible  cultural  or archeological  value;  (0  a  model  form  of the
Subproject  Agreement;  (g)  procedures 
land  ownership  of  eligible
Beneficiaries;  (h)  the  Project  administrative,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting,  financial
(including  cash 
thereto),  procurement  and  disbursement
procedures;  (i)  the  monitoring  indicators  for the  Project;  and  (j)  the  ESMF,  IPPF  and  the
RPF.  In  the  event  that  any  provision  of the  Operational  Manual  shall  conflict  with  this
Agreement,  the  terms  of this  Agreement  shall  prevail.  The  Borrower  shall  not  amend,
terminate  or  waive  any  of the  provisions  of the  Operational  Manual  without  the  Bank's
prior  consent.

for  confirming 

flow  aspects 

in  relation 

-6-

3. 

4. 

6. 

The  Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  and  following  the guidelines  set forth  in  the Operational
Manual,  shall  establish  and  thereafter  operate  and  maintain  throughout  the  period  of
implementation  of the pertinent  Subproject  activities,  Provincial  Articulation  Roundtables
(PARs);  said  PARs  shall  have  membership  (including,  inter  alia,  GADs,  NGOs,
resources  and
representative  of  other  MAGAP's  Programs), 
competencies  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as  defined  in  the  Operational  Manual,  as  to  ensure
overall  participation  of  GADs  and  other  stakeholders  in  Project  implementation,  inter-
institutional  coordination  and  establishment  of strategic  alliances  with other  stakeholders,
and  participation  in the evaluation  and  selection of Subprojects.

functions,  powers, 

The Borrower,  through MAGAP,  not later  than six  (6)  months after the Effectiveness  Date,
shall  issue  a  Ministerial  Accord  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  for the  purposes  of
articulating  and  complementing  actions  among  the  different  MAGAP's  Agricultural
Programs  and  the  Project,  and  maximizing  the  impacts  and  sustainability  of the  different
activities  derived  from  said Programs.

The  Borrower, through  MAGAP,  not later  than six (6)  months after the Effectiveness  Date,
shall,  either,  enter into  an  agreement  ("Cooperation  Agreement"),  between  the  ST  and  the
SRD,  or  issue  a  Ministerial  Accord,  all  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  for  the  purposes  of
coordinating  the  land  regularization  process,  as  described  in  the Operational  Manual.

The Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall  on  a date  to be  agreed  with the  Bank, but in  no  case
later  than  twenty-four  (24)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  carry  out  a  review  with  the
Bank  on  the  overall  progress  and  implementation  arrangements  in  the  execution  of the
Project  and  set  out  the measures  and take  any remedial  action  as  a result  of such  review, as
agreed  with the  Bank.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Subprojects

C. 

1. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried out  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

To  'acilItate  the carrying out of  Part  I of the  Project.  the  Borrower,  through  M AGAP,  shall:

in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  and
After  having  selected  a  Subproject 
procedures  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the
the  case  may  be,  with  Participating  Entities
eligible  Beneficiary,  and,  as 
("Subproject  Agreement"),  under terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  and
included  in  the  Operational  Manual,  including  the  Beneficiary's  obligations  to
carry  out  the  operation,  management  and  maintenance  of the  selected  Subproject
and  to  contribute  to  the  cost  of  the  Sub-project,  the  Borrower's  obligation  to
procure  the goods,  works  and services  for the  execution  of the selected Subproject,
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this  Agreement,  and  as  the  case  may  be,  the
Participating  Entities'  obligation  to co-finance  or co-implement  the  Subproject, as
the  case  may  be.

(b) 

(c) 

Exercise  its rights  and  carry  out  its obligations  under  the  Subproject  Agreements
in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower shall  not assign, amend,  abrogate,  waive,  terminate or fail to  enforce
any  Subproject Agreement  or  any provisions  thereof.

Submit to  the  Bank  for  its  non-objection,  all  selected  and  prioritized  Subproject
profiles,  accompanied  by a  technical  report based on  the  evaluations  performed  by
the  Project's evaluation and  coordination  committee.  After  the first year of Project
implementation,  and  only  for  those  profiles  with  similar  technical  designs  to  the
previously  approved  profiles,  only  a sample  of profiles will be  sent  for the Bank's
non-objection.

Safeguards

D. 

1 .

Environmental  and Social  Management  Framework (ESMF)

The Borrower,  through MAGAP,  shall  and shall cause,  as the case may be to: (a)  implement
the Project  in accordance  with the  ESMF (including provisions  for natural  habitats and  pest
management);  (b) adopt the procedures  detailed  in said ESMF for environmental  screening,
evaluation,  implementation  and  monitoring  of Subprojects,  including  the  procedures  for
the  preparation  of  environmental  management  plans,  if  applicable;  and  (c)  implement
and/or  cause  to  be  implemented,  the  pertinent  environmental  management  plan,  in
accordance  with  its terms  and in  a  manner acceptable  to the  Bank.

2. 

Indigenous  Peoples  Planning Framework (IPPF)

The Borrower,  through MAGAP,  shall and  shall cause, as the case  may be to: (a)  implement
the  Project in  accordance  with the  IPPF;  (b) adopt the  procedures  detailed  in  said IPPF  for
screening,  evaluation,  implementation,  and  monitoring  of  Subprojects;  (c)  implement
and/or cause  to be implemented,  the pertinent  Indigenous  Peoples  Plan,  in accordance  with
its  terms  and  in a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.

3 

Resettlement  Policy  Framework (RIPF)

The  Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall and shall cause,  as  the case  may be to:  (a)  implement
in  accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework;  (b)  adopt  the
the  Project 
procedures  detailed 
for  screening,  evaluation,
implementation  and  monitoring  of  Subprojects;  and  (c)  implement  and/or  cause  to  be
implemented,  the  pertinent  resettlement  action  plan  or  abbreviated  plan,  as  the  case  may
be,  all  in accordance  with  its terms  and  in a  manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

in  said  Resettlement  Framework 

4. 

International Waterways

The  Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall  ensure  that  any  Subproject  that  may  use  or
potentially  pollute  the  waters  of an  International  Waterway,  or  the  tributaries  of  such  an
International  Waterway,  will  be  excluded  following  a  process  of environmental  screening
included  in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  will  therefore  not be  supported  under  the  Project.

Section  II. 

Project Monitorini  Reportinl  and Evaluation

A. 

Project  Reports

The  Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project
and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the
General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of the indicators  set  forth in  the  Operational  Manual.
Each Project Report  shall  cover the period of one  calendar semester,  and  shall  be furnished
to  the  Bank not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the end of the period  covered  by  such
report.

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports  and  Audits

The  Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,  through
MAGAP,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Bank  as  part  of the  Project  Report  not  later than
forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial
reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank, as  set forth  in the Operational  Manual.

The Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall have  the Financial  Statements  of the Project  audited
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each
audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the period  of one  fiscal year  of the  Borrower
or  any  period  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank.  The  audited  Financial
Statements  for each  such period  shall be furnished  to  the  Bank not  later than six  (6)  months
after the end  of such  period.

For  purposes  of paragraph  3  above,  the  Borrower,  through  MAGAP,  shall:  (a)  send  audit
TORs  for  the  Bank's  no  objection  not  later  than  four  (4)  months  after the  Effective  Date;
(b)  select  and  contract,  by  no  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  and
throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  the  services  of  a
thereafter  maintain, 
qualilled  and  CpCrienced  auditor,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  under  terms  of  reference
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  serve  as  independent  external  auditor  for  a  period  of at  least
three  (3)  consecutive  years.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

I. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of this  Section.

2. 

3. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in Sections  I and IV  of the Consultant  Guidelines  and
with the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods or methods  of review  by  the Bank of particular contracts  refer to  the
corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or
Sections  II,  Ill, IV  and  V of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  case  may be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise provided  in  paragraph  2 below,
goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on
the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of  Procurement of Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding  (subject  to  the  additional
the  Procurement  Plan: 
provisions  referred  to  in  Section  IlI.E of this Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement);  (b)  Shopping;
and  (c)  Direct  Contracting.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2  below,
consultants'  services  shall be procured  under contracts awarded  on the basis  of Quality  and
Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services.  The  following  methods, other
than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of  consultants'
services  for those contracts  which are  specified  in the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based
Selection;  (b)  Selection  under a  Fixed  Budget;  (c)  Least Cost  Selection;  (d)  Selection  based
(c)  Single-source  Selection  of'  consulting  finus;  (1)
on  Consultants'  QUalifications. 
Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the
Selection  of Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be subject  to  Post  Review  by  the Bank.

E. 

Special  Provisions

In  addition  and  without  limitation  or  restriction  to  any  other  provisions  set  forth  in  this
the
Section  or  the  Procurement  Guidelines, 

the  following  provisions  shall  govern 

-I  0-

procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  under  National  Competitive
Bidding (NCB)  procedures  under this  Section:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

Each  bid  shall  be  evaluated  and  the  corresponding  contract  awarded  to  the
responsive  bidder  which  meets  appropriate  technical  and  financial  standards  of
capability  and  whose  bid has  been  determined  to  be  the lowest  evaluated  bid  in  a
manner  satisfactory  to  the Bank.  Such  determination  shall  be made  exclusively  on
the basis  of the  specifications,  conditions  and  evaluation  criteria,  stipulated  in the
bidding documents.  For  purposes  of bid evaluation  and  comparison,  the  only  bid
amount  or  amounts  to  be  used  as  a  factor  shall  be  the bid  amount  or amounts  as
quoted  in the  corresponding  bid, including  correction  of arithmetic  errors.

No  reference  value  shall  be required  for publication  in  the  bidding  documents  or
used  for  the purposes  of evaluation.

There  will  be  no  prescribed  minimum  number  of bids  submitted  for  a  contract  to
be  subsequently  awarded.

to  the  Bank,  and  include  the
The  bidding  documents  shall  be  acceptable 
anticorruption  clauses  as  provided by  section  1.16  of the  Procurement  Guidelines.

Foreign  bidders shall be allowed  to participate  in  NCB  without restriction and  shall
not  be  subject to  any  unjustified  requirement  which  will  affect  their ability  to  bid
such  as, but not limited to, the requirement  to authenticate  (legalizar) their bidding
documents  or  any  documentation  related  to  such  bidding  documents  with  the
the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  or  any
Ecuadorian  Consulate, 
authority  as a  prerequisite  of bidding,  or be  required  to  enter  into  a joint  venture
agreement  with  local  bidders.

No margin  of preference  shall  be  granted  for  any  particular  category  of bidders.

The  single  envelope  procedure  shall  be  used.

All  bids  shall  be  opened  at  the  stipulated  time  and  place  in  accordance  with  a
procedure  acceptable  to  the  Bank.

A  merit  point  system  shall  not  be  used 
qualification  of bidders.

in  the  pre-qualification  and  post-

The award  of contracts  for goods,  works and  non-consulting services  shall be  based
exclusively on price and, whenever  appropriate,  shall also take  into account  factors
similar  to  those  referred  to  in  paragraphs  2.52  and  2.53  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  provided,  however,  that  the  bid  evaluation  shall  always  be  based  on
factors  that can be quantified objectively,  and  the procedure  for such  quantification
shall  be  disclosed  in  the  invitation  to  bid.

(k) 

Whenever  a  discrepancy  shall  occur  between  the  amounts  in  figures  and  the
amounts  in  words  of a  bid, the  amounts  in  words  shall  govern.

(1) 

In  the  event  that  a  bidder  whose  bid  was  evaluated  as  the  bid  with  the  lowest
evaluated  price  withdraws  its  bid,  the  contract  may  be  awarded  to  the  second
lowest  responsive  evaluated  bid.

(m) 

The  Borrower  shall  use  standard  bidding  documents  and  standard  evaluation
formats,  all  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

2. 

In  addition  and  without  limitation  or  restriction  to  any  other  provisions  set  forth  in  this
the
Section  or  the  Consultant  Guidelines, 
procurement  of consultants'  services:

the  following  provisions  shall  govern 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  use  standard  requests  for  proposals  and  standard  evaluation
formats,  all  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  invitation  to  submit  proposals  should be  sent  to the consulting  firms  included
in  a  short  list  only  as  approved  by  the  Bank.  The  invitation  to  submit proposals
should  not be open  to any  other consulting  firm.

Foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  take  an  action  that  could  deter  their
ability  to  participate  such  as,  but  not  limited  to,  be  locally  registered,  give  any
participation  to  or  enter  into  a  joint  venture  with  a  local  firm  or  individual,
authenticate  (legalizar) any  documentation  related  to  their  participation  in  the
selection  process  with Ecuadorian  authorities  or to  be registered  in the Borrower's
National  Registry  of Suppliers  (Registro Nacional de Proveedores).

(d) 

Consultants  (firms  and  individuals)  shall  not  be  required  to  present  proposals
securities  as  a condition  to present  proposals.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of  Loan  Proceeds

A. 

General

The  Borrower  shall  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article  11  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised from  time  to  time by  the  Bank and  as
made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  2  below.

2. 

The  following table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be  financed
out of the proceeds  of the  Loan ("Category"),  the  allocation of the  amounts  of the  Loan to
each Category,  and the  percentage of expenditures  to be financed  for Eligible  Expenditures
in  each  Category.

-12-

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 
67,700,000 

Percentage  of  Expenditures
to  be  financed
(exclusive  of Taxes)
100%

5,600,000 

100%

6,700,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  Works,  Non- 
consulting  Services  and
Consultant's  Services  required
for Climate-Smart  Subprojects
under  Part  I of the Project.
(2)  Goods,  Non-consulting 
Services,  Consultant's
Services,  and Training
required  under  Part  2  of the
Project.
(3)  Small  works,  Goods,  Non- 
consulting Services,
Consultants'  Services,
Operating Costs  and Training
under  Part  3  of the  Project.
TOTAL  AMvOUNT 

For the  purposes  of this  Section:

80,000,000___________

(a) 

(b) 

the  term  "Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  incremental  operational  costs
(which  would  not have  been  incurred  absent the  Project)  incurred  by  the Borrower,
through  MAGAP,  related  to  Project  technical  and  administrative  management,
monitoring  and  supervision  required  under  the  Project,  including  inter  a/ia,
remuneration  for  operational  and  technical  staff (excluding  the  Borrower's  civil
servants),  office  equipment,  supplies,  travel  costs  (including  accommodations,
transportation  costs  and  per  diem),  printing  services,  communication  costs,
utilities,  maintenance  of  office  equipment  and  facilities,  vehicle  operation  and
maintenance  costs,  and  logistics  services" and

siterViS)
the term "Trainin"  means  expenditures  (other  than  thoS 
tiAGAP,  in  connection  with  the  carryIng  OLIt
InCuned  by  tihe  Borrower. thIoU l 
of training,  sinars, and  workshops,  Including  the  reasonable  travel  costs  (e.g.
accommodations,  transportation  costs  and  per  iem)  of trainees  and  trainers  (if
logistics  and
applicable),  catering,  rental  of  training  facilities  and  equipment, 
printing  services,  as  well  as  training materials  and equipment  tinder  the  Project.

for cnultn 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section, no  withdrawal  shall  be made  from
this  Agreement;  and  (b)  until  the  Bank  has
the  Loan  Account:  (a)  prior  to  the  date  o 
received  payment  in  full of the Front-end  Fee.

2. 

The  Closing  Date  is  June  30,  2021.

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following table  sets  forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates of the  Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have been  fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share  for each Principal  Payment Date, such repayable  amount to be adjusted, as  necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Repayment  Date 

December  15,  2033 
June  15,  2034 
December  15,  2034 
June  15,  2035 
December  15,  2035 
June  15,  2036 
December  15,  2036 
June  15,  2037 
December  15,  2037 
June  15,  2038 
December  15,  2038 
June  15,  2039 
December  15,  2039 
June  15.  2040 
December  15,  2040 
June  15,  2041 
December  15,  2041 
June  15,  2042 
December  15,  2042 
June  15,  2043 
December  15,  2043 
June  15,  2044 
December  15,  2044 
June  15,  2045 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)
32.1037%
21.7972%
14.7995%
10.0484%
6.8225%
4.6322%
3.1451%

2.1354%
1.4499%
0.9844%
0.6684%
0.4538%
0.3081%
0.2092%
0.1420%
0.0964%

0.0655%
0.0445%
0.0302%
0.0205%
0.0139%

0.0094%

0.0064%

0.0044%

-14-

Repayment  Date 

Installment Share
(Exressed  as  a  Percentage)
0.0030%

December  15,  2045 
June  15,  2046 
December  15,  2046 
June  15,  2047 
December  15,  2047 
June  15,  2048 
December  15,  2048 
June  15,  2049 
December  15,  2049 
June  15,  2050 

0.0020%

0.0014%

0.0009%
0.0006%
0.0004%
0.0003%

0.0002%
0.0001%
0.0001%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have  not  been fully  withdrawn  as  of the first  Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  Borrower  shall repay  the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as
of such  date in  accordance  with  paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the  date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the original  Installment  Share specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within two calendar months prior  to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on  the second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment Date  following  the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (a)  of  this  paragraph,  if  at  any
time the  Bank adopts  a due date  billing system  under which  invoices are  issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no longer apply  to  any  withdrawals  made after the adoption of such
billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance to  an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,  shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (a)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (b)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply separately to  the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency,  so  as to produce  a  separate amortization  schedule  for each such  amount.

-16-

APPENDIX

Section  1. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Beneficiary"  means  small  and  medium-sized  family  farmers  (including  indigenous
peoples)  organized  into  a  legally  established  private  association,  including  Water  Users
Association  and/or Farmers'  Organizations,  all of which,  upon meeting the criteria  set forth
in the  Operational  Manual,  are eligible to  receive support,  on behalf of its  members,  for the
carrying out  of the  respective  Sub-Project.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Climate-Smart  Subproject"  means  subproject  aimed  at  rehabilitating  and  modernizing
irrigation  systems, eligible  for  fifiancing  under Part  1 of the Project,  in  accordance  with  the
criteria  set  forth in the Operational  Manual.

"Co-financier"  means  the Agencia Espahlola de Desarrollo y  Cooperaci6n Internacional
(AECID).

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of paragraph  16  of  the  Appendix  to  the  General
Conditions,  an  amount  of $20,000,000  to  be  provided  by  the  Co-financier  to  assist  in
financing  Parts  I and  3  of the  Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower
and  the Co-financier  providing for  the Co-financing.

"Consultant Guidelines"  means  the "GuIidelines:  Selection  and  Employment of Consultants
under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January
2011  (revised  Rly  2014).

"Cooperation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in Section  1.A.5  of Schedule 2
to this  Agreement.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  or  ESMF"  means  the  Borrower's
framework  dated May  2015,  acceptable  to  the  Bank, published and available  to  the public
on the  website  www.agricultura.gob.ec,  and  on Bank's  InfoShop  on  May  31,  2015, which
contains  the  environmental  protection  measures  in  respect  of  the  Project,  including:  (a)
measures  for chance  findings  of cultural  property;  (b)  protection  of natural  habitats  and pest
management;  (c)  guidelines  for the  identification  of existing  environmental  conditions  and
potential  direct  and  indirect  environmental  impacts  resulting  from  the  carrying  out  of  the
Project  (including  Subprojects);  (i)  guidelines  for  the  carrying  out  of  environmental
assessments  and  the preparation  of  eivironmental  management  plans,  when  applicable;  (e)

-17-

i1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

the  recommendation  of mitigation  measures  for  each  negative  impact  identified;  and  (f)
measures  for enhancing  each identified  positive impact.

"Farmers  Organizations  or  FO"  means  farmer-based  organizations  vested  with  legal
personality  and/or  a  group  of  farmers  organized  into  a  legally  established  private
association.

"GAD"  means  Gobiernos Aut6nomos Decentralizados, any of the Borrower's  autonomous
decentralized  governments  as  per the  Borrower's  constitution.

"General  Conditions"  means  the "International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  modifications  set  forth  in
Section  II  of this  Appendix.

to 

the  Bank,  published  and  available 

"Indigenous  Peoples'  Planning  Framework  or  IPPF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,
the  website
acceptable 
www.agricultura.gob.ec  and  InfoShop  on May  31,  2015,  satisfactory to the  Bank, detailing
measures  to  mitigate  any  adverse  impact  on indigenous  peoples  as  a  result of any  activity
carried  out under the  Project  (including  Subprojects)  and  to  ensure  that  they  benefit  from
the  Project,  including  procedures  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of the  pertinent
Indigenous  Peoples  development  plans.

to  the  public  on 

"International  Waterway"  means:  (a)  any  river,  canal  lake,  or  similar  body  of water  that
forms  a  boundary  between,  or any  river  or  body  of surface  water  that  flows  through,  two
or  more  international  states;  (b)  any  tributary  or  other  body  of  surface  water  that  is  a
component  of any waterway  described in (a)  above; and  (c)  any bay,  gulf, strait, or channel
bounded  by  two  or  more  international  states  or,  if  within  one  state,  recognized  as  a
necessary  channel  of communication  between  the open  sea  and other  states,  and  any  river
flowing  into such  waters.

"MAGAP"  means  Ministerio  de  Agricultura, Ganaderia, Acuacultura y  Pesca,  the
Borrower's  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Livestock,  Aqua-Culture  and  Fisheries  or  any
successor  thereto.

"MAGAP's  Agricultural  P1rograms"  means 
in  agriiCUlture
development  managed  by  MAGAP:  (a)  Hombro a Honbro Program  (national  extension
program  for  family  farming);  (b)  the  agricultural  component  of the  Plan Nacional Buen
Vivir  2013-2017;  and  (c) 
the  program  on  participative  technological  innovation  and
production  in agriculture (Provecto de Innovaci6n Tecnol6gica Participativay Producci6n
Agricola).

the  following  programs 

"Non-consulting  Services"  means  the services  which are  of non-intellectual  nature and that
can  be  procured  on  the  basis  of performance  of  measurable  physical  outputs,  including
unskilled-labor  communications  campaigns,  production  of  videos,  and  installation  of
equipment.

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

"Operational  Manual"  means  the manual prepared  by the Borrower for  the operation  of the
Project referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  of Schedule 2  to  this Agreement.

"Participating  Entities"  means  the  entities  referred  to  in  Section  LC  (a)  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement  that  may participate  as  co-financiers  and/or  co-implementing  entities with
respect  to  the  Subprojects,  and  may  include,  inter  alia:  GADs,  NGOs,  bilateral  and
multilateral  cooperating  agencies,  as  well  as  implementing  agencies  of  MAGAP's
Agricultural  Programs.

"PLU"  means  the  central  unit  within  MAGAP  and the  seven  Zonal  Offices  referred  to  in
Section  I.A. 1(a)  and  (b)  of  Schedule  2  of  this  Agreement  and  to  be  created  under  the
responsibility of its  Sub-secretary  of Irrigation  and  Drainage.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January 2011  (revised July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for the  Project,  dated  March
25,  2015  and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and paragraph
1.25  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with the  provisions of said paragraphs.

"Provincial  Articulation  Roundtables  or  PARs"  means  the  roundtables  referred  to  in
Section I.A.3  of Schedule 2  to  this Agreement  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

"Resettlement  Policy Framework  or RPF"  means  the document  prepared  by  the Borrower.
published  and  available  to  the  public  on  the  website  www.agric-ultura.gob.ec  and  on
InfoShop  on  May  31,  2015  and  outlining  general  implementation  procedures,  mitigation
measures  and  monitoring  procedures  for involuntary  resettlement  and/or  land  acquisition
under  the  Project,  including  the  procedures  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of
resettlement  plans,  as  said framework  may  be amended  from time  to time  with  the Bank's
prior approval.

"Selected  Provinces"  means  the  following  provinces  within  the  Borrower's  territory:  (a)
i)(hibura,  Pichincha,  Coropoxi,  Tunwgurahua,
Provinces  of  Sierra 
Chimborazo,  Bolivar.  Canar, Azuav  and  Loja;  and  (b)  Provinces  of  Costa  region
Esmeraldas, Manabi, Guayas, Santo Domingo de las Tscichilas, Los Rios, Santa Elena and
El Oro.

region:  Carchi, 

"SRD"  means  Sub-Secretaria  de  Riego  y  Drenaje, MAGAP's  Under-Secretariat  of
Irrigation  and  Drainage  or any successor  thereof

"ST"  means  Subsecretaria de  Tierras,  MAGAP's  Under-secretariat  of  land,  or  any
successor  thereto.
"Subproject  Agreement"  means  "Convenio de  Ejecucion", each  of the  agreements  to  be
the  Borrower  and  an  eligible  Beneficiary  for  Climate-Smart
entered 
Subprojects  as  specified  in Section  1.C  of  Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement.

into  between 

-19-

30. 

31. 

32. 

3. 

4. 

"USL"  means  Subsecretaria de  Tierras, MAGAP's  Under-Secretariat  of  Land  or  any
successor  thereof.

"Water  Users  Associations"  means  the  associations  formed  by  irrigation  water  users
operating  at  the  irrigation  scheme  level,  vested  with  legal  personality,  in  charge  of
irrigation  system  administration,  operation  and  management,  water  distribution  and  the
collection  of fees.

"Zonal  Offices"  means  the  PIU zonal  offices  referred  to in  Section  .A. 1(b)  of Schedule 2
to  this  Agreement,  covering  the  following  provinces:  (a)  Zone  1:  Esmeraldas, Carchi,
Imbabura and Sucumbios; (b) Zone  2:  Pichincha, Napo and Orellana; (c)  Zone  3: Pastaza,
Cotopaxi, Tungurahua and Chimborazo; (d)  Zone  4:  Manabi and Santo Domingo de los
Tscichilas; (e)  Zone  5:  Guayas, Los  Rios,  Santa Elena and Bolivar; (f) Zona  6:  Azuay,
Caihar and Morona Santiago, and (g) Zone  7:  El Oro, Loja and Zamora Chinchipe.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the  General Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are hereby  modified  as  follows:

1. 

In  the  Table  of  Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are  modified  to reflect the  modifications  set forth in  the paragraphs  below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at  the  rate

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower shall pay  the Bank  a  commitment charge  on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement  to the  respective  dates on  which amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from
the  Loan  Account or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually
in  arrears  on each  Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified,  as necessary,  to  reflect the  modification  set forth  in paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for  the purpose  of Section  3.0 1(b)."

-20-

5. 

6. 

7. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph 49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the Appendix,  the  definition
of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section  3.01  with  Section
3.01(a).

In the renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of the  term "Loan Payment"  Is  modified to  read as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including (but  not limited
the  Front-end  Fee,  the
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest, 
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and any Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."
In the renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the Appendix,  the  definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge  are"  after  the word "interest".

-21-

