LOAN  NUMBER  8518-HR

Loan Agreement

(Innovation atd Entrepreneurship  Venture Capital  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF CROATIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dai:ed 

,  2015

LOAN  NUMBER  8518-HR

Agreement  dated 

("Borrower")  and 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  The Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby  agree  as follows:

,2015,  between  REPUBLIC  OF CROATIA
INTER  NATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

LOAN  AGREEMENT

8 

ARTICLE  I  -

- GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Condit  ons (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to  this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of t- is Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context r  quires  otherwise, the  capitalized terms  used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  end to  the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to in  this  A,reement, the  amount  of twenty  million  Euros  (E20,000,000),
as  such  amount  rr ay  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this  Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  this
Agreement  ("Projec:").

2.02.  The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with  Section

IV  of Schedule  2  to  :his Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of 1he  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee
not  later than sixty  (10)  days after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The Commitment  C  iarge payable  by the Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one quarter  of

one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Refereice  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  intere:t  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  Ie  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
'or a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
payment  continues 

-2-

Borrower  shall  instead be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of the General
Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment Dates  are May  15  and November  15  in  each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amont  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrow er may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in  order to facilitate  prudent  debt management:

(i) 

(ii) 

a cl  ange of the Loan  Currency of all or any portion of the principal
am.unt  of the  Loan, withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Cur -ency;

a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any
pori ion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
out, tanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;
or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
witldrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Ref .rence  Rate  and the Variable  Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based
on z Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the Variable Spread,  or vice  versa;
or  (C) all  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
out,tanding  from a  Variable Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to a
Var  able  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Spread;  and

(iii) 

the  setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate
applicable to all  or any portion  of the principal  amount of the Loan
witi drawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest
Rati  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the
Ref.rence  Rate.

(b) 

Any conver  -ion requested  pursuant  to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  cf Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower declai es its commitment  to the objective  of the  Project.  To this  end,
the  Borrower  shall  ause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  HAMAG-BICRO  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions  and  the
Project Agreement.

-3-

3.02.  Without  limitation  ipon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as the Borrower  and the Bank shall  otherwise agree,  the Borrower, through
MoEC,  shall ensure  that the Project is carried out in  accordance  with the provisions
of Schedule  2  to thi:  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Eve,it of Suspension  consists of the following:

(a) 

The  Project 
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and
adversely,  n 
the  ability  of  the  Pro  ect
Implementi  ig  Entity  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the  Proj ect
Agreement.

the  opinion  of  the  Bank, 

(b) 

The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  have  failed  to comply  with  any  of
its  obligatio  is  under the  Subsidiary  Agreement.

4.02. 

The Additional Evei  it of Acceleration  consists of, namely,  that any  event specified
in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of thirty
(30)  days  after notice  of the event  has  been  given by  the  Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Con Jition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower
(through  MoF  and  MoEC)  and  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  a  manner
satisfactory  to the Bank;

HAMAG-B[CRO  has  established  a  Project  Implementation  Unit ("PIU")
as  referred  :o  in  Section  I,  Part  A,  paragraph  2  to  the  Schedule  of the
Project  Agreement;  and

(c) 

The  Project  Operations  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  (through
MoF  and MoEC)  and the  Bank,  has  been  adopted by  HAMAG-BICRO.

5.02. 

The Additional  Lega:l  Matters  consist of the following:  namely, that the Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  HAMAG-
BICRO  and  is  leg  illy  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  HAMAG-BICRO  in
accordance  with  its  erms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Rerresentative  is  its  Minister  of Finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Adress  is:

Ministry  of -inance
Katan6ideve  5
10000 Zagrcb
Republic  of Croatia

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

862-21215 
862-21833

(385-1)  4922-598

Internationa  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  addre  s: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Zagreb,  Repub  ic  of Croatia,  as  of the day  and year  first above written.

-5-

RE  IUBLIC  OF  CROATIA

By

By

Authorized  Representalive

Name: 

3/ 

0  4/o 

c

Title:  f7,' 

?c-~/ Are

IN1  ERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title: 

_ 

__

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  oft] ie Project  is to  strengthen  risk capital  financing  in the territory

of the Borrower  for  innovative  SMEs  and  Startups.

The Project  consi! ts  of the following parts:

Part A.  Pilot Venture Capital Fund

Establishing  a  Pilot  Venture  Capital  Fund  to  provide  financing  to  innovative
including  PVC

Investments), 

investments 

for  equity 

(PVC 

SMEs  and  Startups 
Management  Operating  Cos :s.

Part B. 

Seed  Co-Investment  Fund

Providing risk  car,ital  financing  for  productive  purposes,  through  the  Seed  Co-
Investment  Fund,  alongside  private  co-investors  to  innovative  SMEs and  Startups, through
the provision  of SCI  Sub-fin ancing.

Part C.  Technical  Assistf  nee

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Global  Adv  sory  Network:  Establishing  a  network  of experts  to  provide
advice  and  ;uidance  for  the  implementation  of the Pilot  Venture  Capital
Fund  and the Seed Co-Investment  Fund.

Capacity  Bilding  and  Networking:  Developing  capacity  of  the  main
actors  involved  in the risk  capital  financing  industry  in  the territory  of the
Borrower  ai  d  strengthening  social  capital  and  networks.

Monitoring  and  Evaluation:  Monitoring  and evaluating  the use  of Project
funds.

Proiect  Mar agement  and  Audit:  Establishing  the  PIU,  providing  support
for  Project  management  and  implementation,  carrying  out  outreach
activities  with  respect  to  Project  activities,  conducting  audits  required  by
the  Project.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

A. 

1 

2. 

B. 

1 .

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrargements

The  Borrower,  through  MoEC,  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by
HAMAG-BICRO  (the  "Project  Implementing  Entity").

The  Borrower,  thro,igh  MoEC,  shall  ensure  that  the Project  Implementing  Entity
carries  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  this  Agreement  and  the  Project
Operations  Manual  ,md shall  ensure that, except  as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree,
the Project Implementing  Entity  shall not amend,  abrogate,  waive  or fail  to enforce
any  provision  of  he  Project  Operations  Manual  without  the  prior  written
agreement  of the Bank.

3. 

(a) 

The Borrower, through  MoEC,  shall establish,  by no  later than two  months
after  the  d,,te  of  this  Agreement,  and  thereafter  maintain,  throughout
Project  imp ementation,  a  Project  Steering Committee  responsible  for the
coordinatioi 
and  supervision  of  the  Project,  with  membership  (as
described  ir  (b)  below) and terms  of reference  acceptable to the  Bank.

(b) 

The  Projec  Steering  Committee  shall  include  representatives  of  the
Borrower's  MoF,  Ministry  of  Economy,  MoEC,  Ministry  of  Science,
Education  znd  Sports,  and  Ministry  of  Regional  Development  and  EU
Funds.

(c) 

The Project  Steering Committee  shall be  chaired  by a representative  of the
Borrower's  MoEC.

Subsidiary Agreen  ent

To  facilitate  the can ying out  of the  Project, the  Borrower shall  make the  proceeds
of  the  Loan  availa!le  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  under  a  subsidiary
agreement  between 
Implementing  Entity
("Subsidiary  Agree  nent"),  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank,
which  shall  include  :he  following:

the  Borrower  and 

the  Project 

(a) 

The Project  Implementing Entity will not be  required to  repay  the proceeds
of the  Loan  received  from  the Borrower.

(b) 

The obligations  of the Project Implementing  Entity  to:

-8-

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

con  ply  with  the  pertinent  provisions 
app  icable  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity;

in  this  Agreement,  as

procure  a  private  venture  capital  management  firm  to  act  as  the
mar ager  of the  PVC  Fund,  with  terms  of reference,  experience
and  qualifications  acceptable  to  the  Bank  ("PVC  Management
Firri"),  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  set  forth  in  Section  III
of this  Schedule;

the  PVC  Fund  with 

esta:)lish 
and
resronsibilities  acceptable to the Bank  and  in  accordance  with  the
Alternative  Investment  Fund  Act,  the  Companies  Act,  and  the
Gui  lelines on  State  Aid  to  Promote  Risk  Finance  Investments;

a  structure, 

functions 

including,  inter alia: (A) 

as  part  of  the  establishment  of  the  PVC  Fund,  enter  into  an
agrc ement  with the  shareholders referred  to in  Section  IV,  Part  B,
parzgraph  1(b)(v)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  (the  "PVC
Fun  i  Agreement")  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the
Ban, 
the  obligation  of  the  Project
Imp  ementing  Entity  to,  upon  approval  of  any  given  PVC
Inve stment, make  available to the  PVC  Fund a portion  of the Loan
proceeds  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as  set
forth  in  the POM,  including, inter alia, compliance  with  the Anti-
Con uption Guidelines;  and (B)  the obligation  of the PVC  Fund to,
upon  approval  of  any  given  PVC  Investment,  provide  equity
finaicing  (the  PVC  Sub-financing)  to  the  corresponding  PVC
Ben .ficiary  for  purposes  of  financing  the  PVC  Investment
purs iant  to  the  pertinent  agreement  (the  "PVC  Sub-Financing
Agnement")  to  be  entered  into  between  the  PVC  Fund  and  said
PVC  Beneficiary on terms and conditions,  acceptable  to the Bank,
inch ding,  inter alia, those set  forth  in  subparagraph  (vii)  below.

(v) 

(vi) 

ensure  that  the  PVC  Management  Firm,  on  behalf  of the  PVC
Fund,  approves  PVC  Investments  and  the  related  PVC  Sub-
financing  in  accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria  and  terms  set
fortt  in the  Project  Operations  Manual;

ensu-e  that  the  PVC  Management  Firm,  on  behalf  of the  PVC
Fun(,  maintains, 
implementation,  pre-
scre( ning,  evaluation  and  supervision  procedures 
for  PVC
Inve  ftments,  acceptable  to  the  Bank;

throughout  Project 

(vii) 

ensu  e  that  each  PVC  Sub-Financing  Agreement  shall  include,
inter alia, the following  terms and  conditions:

(1) 

the  PVC  Fund  shall  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its
interests  and those of the Project Implementing  Entity, the
Borrower,  and the Bank,  including  the right to:

(A) 

terminate  the right  of the PVC Beneficiary  to  use
the proceeds  of the PVC Sub-financing,  or  ob:ain
a  refund  of all  or  any  part  of the  amount  of the
PVC  Sub-financing  received,  upon  the  PVC
Beneficiary's 
to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under 
the  PVC  Sub-financing
Agreement;  and

failure 

(B) 

require  each  PVC  Beneficiary  to:

-9-

(1) 

social 

efficiency 
sound 

its  operations  with  due
carry  out 
diligence 
and 
and 
in
accordance  with 
technical,
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental 
and 
standards
(including  any  EIAs,  EMPs  or  other
documents 
required 
under 
the
Environmental 
Management
Framework) 
all
satisfactory 
to  the  Bank,  including  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to
recipients  of loan  proceeds other  than  the
Borrower;

practices, 

and 

(II) 

provide,  promptly 
as  needed, 
resources  required  for  the purpose;

the

(III)  maintain 
adequate 
evaluate 
with  indicators  acceptable  to  the Bank;

policies 
procedures
to  enable 
it  to  monitor  and
its  operations,  in  accordance

and 

(IV)  maintain  a financial  management  system
and  prepare 
financial 
in
accordance  with  consistently  applied
accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  both 
in  a  manner  adequate  to
reflect 
resources  and
expenditures;

its  operations, 

statements 

-10-

(V) 

at  the  Bank's  or  the Borrower's  request,
have  such  financial statements  audited  by
independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently
applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  and  promptly 
the
statements  as  so  audited  to the  Borrower
and the Bank;

furnish 

(VI) 

(VII) 

the  Borrower, 

enable 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  the  Bank  to
inspect  the  Beneficiary's  operation  and
any  relevant  records  and  documents;  and

prepare  and  furnish  to  the Borrower  and
the  Bank  all  such  information  as  the
Borrower  or  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request  relating to the foregoing.

(2) 

the  PVC  Management  Firm,  on  behalf of the PVC  Fund,
shall  exercise  the  rights  and  carry  out  the obligations  of
the PVC  Fund under each  PVC  Sub-financing  Agreerent
in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Pro  ect
Implementing  Entity,  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.  Except  as the Bank
and 
the  PVC
Management  Firm,  on behalf of the  PVC  Fund, shall  not
assign,  amend,  terminate,  abrogate,  waive  or  fail 
to
enforce  any  PVC  Sub-financing  Agreement  or  any  of its
provisions.

the  Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree, 

(viii)  mar  age  the Seed Co-Investment  ("SCI") Fund pursuant to  criteria
and limitations  set  forth in  the Project  Operations  Manual;

(ix) 

dec  de which  investments  the SCI  Fund will  make consistent  with
the  -riteria  set  forth  in  the Act  on  the  Small  Business  Promotion
DeN elopment  and  the  Agreement  on  the  Merger  of the  Business
Innivation  Agency  of the  Republic  of Croatia  with  the  Croatian
Agc ncy  for SMEs  and  Investments;

(x) 

ensi ire that the SCI  Fund approves  SCI  Subprojects  and the  related
SCI  Sub-financing  in  accordance  with  the eligibility  criteria  and
tern is set  forth in  the Project  Operations  Manual;

-11-

(xi) 

(xii) 

ma ntain, 
throughout  Project 
eva[uation  and  supervision  procedures 
acc,-ptable  to  the  Bank;

implementation,  pre-screening,
for  SCI  Subprojects,

upcn  approval  of any  given  SCI  Subproject,  make  each  SCI  Sub-
fin  ncing  pursuant 
to  the  corresponding  SCI  sub-financing
agr  ement 
the
respective  SCI  Beneficiary  on  terms  and  conditions  approved  by
the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the  following:

(the  "SCI  Sub-financing  Agreement")  with 

(1) 

the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  shall  obtain  rights
adequate  to protect  its interests  and those  of the Borrower
and  the  Bank, including  the right to:

(A) 

terminate 

suspend  or 
the  right  of  the  SCI
Beneficiary  to  use  the  proceeds  of the  SCI  Sub-
financing,  or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or any  part  of
the  amount  of  the  SCI  Sub-financing 
then
withdrawn,  upon  the SCI  Beneficiary's  failure  to
perform  any of its obligations  under the SCI  Sub-
financing  Agreement;  and

(B) 

require  each  SCI  Beneficiary  to:

(1) 

and 

social 

efficiency 
sound 

carry  out  its  SCI  Subproject  with  due
diligence 
and 
in
accordance  with 
technical,
economic, 
financial, 
managerial,
environmental 
and 
standards
(including  any  EIAs,  EMPs  or  other
documents 
required 
under 
the
Environmental 
Management
Framework) 
all
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to
recipients  of loan proceeds  other than  the
Borrower;

practices, 

and 

(II) 

(III) 

provide,  promptly 
as  needed, 
resources  required  for the purpose;

the

procure  the  goods  and  services  under  the
pertinent  SCI  Subproject  to  be  financed
out  of 
in

the  SCI  Sub-financing 

-12-

(IV) 

(V) 

(VI) 

accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this
Agreement;

and 

maintain 
policies 
procedures
adequate  to  enable 
it  to  monitor  and
evaluate 
SCI 
Subproject 
in
accordance  with  indicators  acceptable  to
the Bank;

the 

statements 

maintain  a  financial  management  system
and  prepare 
financial 
in
accordance  with  consistently  applied
accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  both 
to
reflect 
and
expenditures;

in  a  manner  adequate 

its  operations, 

resources 

at  the  Bank's  or  the  Borrower's  request,
have such  financial  statements audited  by
independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently
applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish 
the
statements  as  so audited  to the Borrower
and the  Bank;

(VII) 

the  Borrower, 

enable 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  the  Bank  to
inspect  the  SCI  Subproject,  its  operation
and  any  relevant records  and  documents;
and

(VIII)  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and
the  Bank  all  such  information  as 
the
Borrower  or  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request  relating to  the foregoing.

(2) 

the  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  exercise  its  rights
and  carry  out 
its  obligations  under  each  SCI  Sub-
financing  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  :he
interests  of the Borrower  and the Bank  and to  accomplish
the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree,  the Project  Implementing
Entity shall not assign,  terminate, amend,  abrogate,  walve

-13-

or  fail to  enforce  any  Sub-financing  Agreement  or any  of
its  provisions.

The  Borrower  shal  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the
Subsidiary  Agreem.nt  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the interests  of the Borrower
and  the  Bank  and  t)>  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agr( e,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  terminate,  amend,  abrogate,
waive  or  fail  to enfc  rce  the Subsidiary  Agreement  or  any of its  provisions.

The  Borrower  shall,  and  shall  cause the  Project Implementing  Entity  to,  carry  out
the Project  in accordance  with the provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

2. 

D. 

1 .

C. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower,  thr)ugh  MoEC,  shall  ensure  that  Project 
in
accordance  with the Environmental  Management  Framework,  and shall ensure that
no  provision  of the  EMF  is  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived
without  prior appro''al  by  the Bank.

is  carried  out 

2. 

(a) 

The  Borrov  er,  through  MoEC,  shall  ensure  that  prior  to  any  PVC  Sub-
financing  o  - SCI  Sub-financing,  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  or  the
PVC  Fund,  is the case  may  be, screens potential  PVC  Beneficiaries  or SCI
Beneficiaries for environmental  and social  impacts  to determine eligibility
of  a  proposed  Sub-financing 
in  accordance  with  the  Environmental
Managemer  t Framework.

(b) 

For each  pr  iposed  Sub-financing  requiring  an  EIA  or an  EMP,  or both  an
EIA and an  -MP, pursuant to the provisions  set forth  in  the Environmental
Managemer  t Framework,  the Borrower, through  MoEC,  shall  ensure  that
the  Project  mplementing  Entity  or the  PVC  Fund,  as the  case  may  be,  is
responsible  for ensuring that:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

an  I IA  or  an  EMP, or  both an  EIA  and an  EMP, is/are  carried out
and prepared,  respectively;

such  EIA  or EMP,  or both the EIA  and the EMP, comply  with the
pro  isions  of the  Environmental  Management  Framework;

mezningful  consultations  are  conducted,  and  the  EIA  or  EMP,  or
botlh  EIA  and EMP,  are  adequately  disclosed;  and

-14-

(iv) 

tha  each  PVC  Beneficiary  or SCI  Beneficiary,  as the case may  be,
car ies  out  its  activities  in  compliance  with  such  EIA  or  EMP  or
bota  EIA  and  EMP,  and  in a  manner  acceptable  to the Bank.

3. 

No  PVC  Investmert  or  SCI  Subproject  shall  be  eligible  for  Sub-financing  if  it
involves:

(a) 

(b) 

any  activit  es  involving  the  involuntary  taking  of  land  resulting  in
relocation  or  loss  of  shelter,  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets,  loss  of
income  soUrces  or  means  of  livelihood,  or  involving  the  involuntary
restriction  c f access  to  legally designated  parks  and  protected  areas;  or

any activitic s likely  to have significant  adverse environmental  impacts that
are  sensiti-  e,  diverse,  or  unprecedented,  that  would  be  classified  as
'Category  A' 
in  accordance  with  the  Bank's  applicable  policies  and
procedures.

The Borrower,  throt  gh  MoEC,  shall  ensure that:  (a)  the terms  of reference  for any
consultancies  relate  I to  the technical  assistance  under  Part  C  of the Project  shall
be  satisfactory  to th-  Bank  and,  to that  end,  such  terms  of reference  shall  require
that  the  advice  corveyed  and  documentation  prepared  through  such  technical
assistance be  consis-ent with the requirements  of the EMF; (b)  technical  assistance
activities  are  screet  ed  for  environmental  and  social  impacts  and  to  determine
eligibility 
in  accor  lance  with  the  EMF;  and  (c)  if  applicable,  the  required
environmental  docu  nentation, such as  an EMP,  is prepared  as part  of the technical
assistance.

Section  II. 

Project Monitorin2 Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  HAMAG-BICRO  to  monitor  and evaluate  the progress
of the  Project  and  rprepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions  and on the basis  of indicators  acceptable  to
the  Bank.  Each  Pr  ject  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester,
and  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of the
period  covered  by  sich  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  ,ause  HAMAG-BICRO  to maintain  or cause to  be maintained
a  financial  managen  ent  system in  accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09
of the General  Conditions.

4. 

B. 

1. 

-15-

Without  limitation  Dn  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  MoEC,  sha I cause  HAMAG-BICRO  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Bank,
not  later than  forty-  ive (45)  days  after  the end of each  calendar  semester,  interim
unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and
substance  satisfacto  *y to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shal  cause  HAMAG-BICRO  to  have  the  Financial  Statements
audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General
Conditions.  Each  a idit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the period  of one
fiscal year of the Bo rower.  The audited Financial  Statements  for each  such  period
shall be furnished  to  the Bank  not later than six months after the end of such  period.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  HAMAG-BICRO  and  the  PVC  Fund  maintain
financial  manageme it systems and prepare  financial  statements in  accordance  with
consistently  applied  accounting standards  acceptable to  the Bank, both  in a manner
adequate  to reflect tl  e operations  and  financial condition  of HAMAG-BICRO,  and
the  PVC  Fund  sepa  ately,  including  their operations,  resources  and  expenditures
related  to the Projec;.

The  Borrower  shall  have  the  financial  statements  of HAMAG-BICRO,  the  PVC
Management  Firm  end the  PVC  Fund audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable
to  the Bank,  in  accoi dance  with consistently  applied  auditing standards  acceptable
to the  Bank.  Each  audit  of these  financial  statements  shall  cover the  period  of one
fiscal  year  of HAM 4G-BICRO,  the  PVC  Management  Firm  and  the  PVC  Fund
respectively,  comm  mcing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  first  withdrawal  is
made  for the Project.

The  Borrower,  throiugh  MoEC,  shall  ensure  that  the  audited  financial  statements
of HAMAG-BICRO,  the  PVC  Management  Firm  and  the  PVC  Fund  for  each
period  are:  (a)  furni! hed  to  the Bank  not  later than  six (6)  months  after the end  of
the  period;  and  (b)  nade  publicly  available  in  a  timely  fashion  and  in  a  manner
acceptable  to  the Ba ik.

Section  III. 

Procuremeit

General

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for the Proj  -ct and  to be  financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be
procured  in  accordace  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I
of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Servi ,es.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the Project  and  to
be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

-16-

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

the  requirements  sel  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The cal  italized terms used below in this Section to describe  particular
procurement  methoc  s  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corres  onding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Sections  II, Ill, IV  and V  of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case may  be.

Particular Method,  of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods  anc  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basi.  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following methods,  other than  International  Competitive  Bidding, may be  used  for
procurement  of gocds  and non-consulting  services  for those contracts  specified
in  the  Procurement  :lan:

(a) 

(b) 
(c) 
(d) 

National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  additional  procedures
stipulated  in  the Annex to this  Schedule;
Shopping;
Direct  Conti acting;  and
Well-establi  ;hed  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial
Practices  wf ich  have  been  found  acceptable  to the Bank.

Particular Metho]s  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-')ased  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultant,'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  thE  n  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts  which  are  specified  in  the
Procurement  Plan:

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 

Quality-bascd  Selection;
Selection  urder a  Fixed  Budget;
Least  Cost  . election;
Selection  besed on  Consultants'  Qualifications;
Single-sour<  e Selection  of consulting  firms;

-17-

(f) 

(g) 

Procedures  s et forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and 5.3  of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants;  and
Single-sourc  e procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by  the Bank  of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to :he
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawa. of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  II  of the General  Conditions,  this  Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbu 'sement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised
from  time to time  by  the  Bank and as  made  applicable to this  Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the table  in
paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loat  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligiblc  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  Euro) 

Percentage of
Expenditures  to  be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

A. 

1. 

2. 

Category 

(1)  PVC  Investments 

(2)  PVC  Management 
Operating  Costs

(3)  SCI  Subprojects 

(4)  Consultants'  Services, 
Training  and Operating
Costs

(5)  Unallocated 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

12,000,000 

3,600,000 

2,500,000 

1,500,000 

400,000

20,000.000

100%

100%

100%

100%

-18-

B. 

Withdrawal Condi  ions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be

1. 
made:

(a) 

from  the Lo  in Account  until the Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of Lhe
Front-end  Fie;  or

(b) 

for Contributions  to the  PVC  Fund  under Category  (1)  unless:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

the  PVC  Management  Firm  has  been  selected  and  hired  as
pro  ided  in  Section  I, Part  B,  paragraphl(b)(ii)  of this Schedule;

the  :VC  Management  Firm  has  been  authorized  by  HANFA  or
has  notified  HANFA  of  its  authorization  by  another  European
Union regulator;

the  'VC  Fund  has  been  established  as provided  in  Section  I, Part
B,  p iragraph  I (b)(iii)  of this Schedule,  with by-laws  acceptable  to
the  3ank;

the  PVC  Fund  has  been  authorized  by  HANFA 
accc ptable  to the  Bank;

in  a  manner

priv ite  shareholders 
aggiegate  of at  least four million  Euros  (E4,000,000);

in  the  PVC  Fund 

have  committed  an

the  nanagement  agreement  between  the  PVC  Fund  and  the  PVC
Mar agement  Firm  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  has  been  signed,  and
complies  with  the  Borrower's  Alternative  Investment  Fund  Act;
and

(vii) 

a Pr vate  Placement  Memorandum  is  in  place  for the PVC  Fund.

2. 

The Closing  Date  is  September  30,  2021.

Section  V. 

Other Und  rtakings

1 .

If the conditions set  forth  in  Section  IV,  Part  B,  paragraph  1(b)  have  not been  met
within  two  (2)  year:;  after  the  "Effective  Date",  the  Borrower  may,  pursuant  to
Section  2.08  of the  General  Conditions,  and  provided  the  Bank  determines  that
there  is  an  estimate(  shortfall  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  under Categories
(3)  and/or  (4),  requ  st  the  Bank  to  reallocate  the  Loan  proceeds  allocated  under
Category  (1) to  any  )f said  Categories to  address the estimated  shortfall.

-19-

2. 

In the event  that the ieallocation  mentioned  in  paragraph  I (above)  is not requested
immediately  after  tl  e  two  (2)  year  deadline  referred  to  in  said  paragraph,  or  if
requested,  the  criter  a  mentioned  therein  is  not  met  as  determined  by  the  Bank,
pursuant to  Section  ".01  of the General  Conditions,  the Borrower  hereby  requests
the  Bank to immediE tely cancel  the  amount  of the Loan  allocated to  Category  (1).

-20-

ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE  2

Additional  Provisions  for National  Competitive  Bidding

For the  purposes  of  following  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  in  :he
procurement  of goods,  work;  and  non-consulting  services  to be  financed  under the  Loan,
and  to  ensure  broader  consistency  with  the  provisions  of Section  I of the  Procurement
Guidelines,  the following  m  difications  and additions  shall  apply:

(i) 

Procedures

The  open  competiti,  e  bidding  method  shall  apply  to  all  contracts.  Invitations  to
bid shall be  advertised  in the  Borrower's Official  Gazette (Narodne Novine), in  at least one
widely  circulated  national  d,.ily  newspaper,  or  on  a  widely  used  website  with  free  access
(including  the  Borrower's  vebsite),  allowing  a  minimum  of  thirty  (30)  days  for  the
preparation  and  submission  of bids.

(ii) 

Pre-qualification

When  pre-qualificat  on  shall  be  required  for  large  or complex  works,  invitations
to  pre-qualify  for bidding  sh  il  be  advertised  in  the Borrower's  Official  Gazette (Narodne
Novine),  in  at  least  one  wid,.ly  circulated  national  daily  newspaper,  or  on  a  widely  used
website with  free access  (inc  uding the Borrower's  website), allowing a  minimum  of thirty
(30)  days  for  the preparatior  and  submission  of pre-qualification  applications.  Minimum
experience  and  technical  an  I financial  requirements  shall  be  explicitly  stated  in  the  pre-
qualification  documents,  which  shall  be  determined  by  a  "pass/fail"  method,  not  through
the  use  of a  merit  point  syst-m.  Where  pre-qualification  is  not  used,  the  qualifications  of
the  bidder  who  is  recomn  ended  for  award  of  contract  shall  be  assessed  by  post-
qualification,  applying  minimum  experience,  technical  and  financial  requirements  which
shall  be  explicitly  stated  in  the bidding  documents.

(iii) 

Participation  of Gov  rmment-owned  Enterprises

Government-owned  enterprises  located and  operating  on  the  Borrower's  territory
shall  be  eligible  to  participate  in  bidding  only  if  they  can  establish,  to  the  Bank's
satisfaction,  that  they  are  le. rally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under commercial
laws  and  are  not  a dependent  agency  of the Borrower.  Said  enterprises  shall  be  subject  to
the  same bid  and performan  e  security  requirements  as other  bidders.

-21-

(iv) 

Bidding Documents

Bank.

(v) 

Bid Submission,  Op.ning  and Evaluation

The Borrower  shall  use  appropriate  bidding  documents  that are  acceptable to the

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

Bids  shall  he  submitted  in  a  single  envelope  containing  the  bidder's
qualificatior  information, technical  and  price  bids, which  shall  be  opened
simultaneou,,ly  at the public  bid opening.

)e  opened 

in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline  for
Bids  shall 
submission  of bids.  The  name  of the  bidder, the total  amount  of each  bid
and  any  discounts  offered  shall  be  read  aloud  and recorded  in the minutes
of the public  bid  opening.

The  evaluation  of bids  shall  be  done  in  strict  adherence  to  the monetarily
quantifiable  criteria specified  in  the  bidding  documents  and  a  merit  point
system  shall  not  be used.

Extension  o-  bid  validity  shall  be  allowed  once  only  for  not  more  than
thirty (30)  d tys. No further  extensions  should be  granted  without the  prior
approval  of  he  Bank.

Contracts  shall  be  awarded  to  qualified  bidders  having  submitted  the
lowest evalLated  substantially  responsive bid.

(6) 

No preferen:e  shall  apply under National  Competitive  Bidding.

All  bids  shall  not  te  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  Bank's  prior

(vi) 

Reiection  of All  Bid;

written  concurrence.

(vii) 

Price Adjustment

(viii) 

Securities

Civil  works  contract3  of long  duration  (e.g.,  more  than  eighteen  (18)  months)  shall

contain  an  appropriate  price  adjustment clause.

Bid  securities  shall  not  exceed  two  percent  (2%)  of  the  estimated  cost  of the
contract  and  performance  3ecurities  not  more  than  ten  percent  (10%).  No  advance
payments  shall  be  made  to  <ontractors  without  a  suitable  advance  payment  security.  The

-22-

wording  of all  such  securiti(s  shall  be  included  into  the  bidding  documents  and  shall  be
acceptable  to the Bank.

(ix) 

Right to  inspect and  audit

Each  bidding  docum ent and contract  financed  from the proceeds  of the  Loan  slall
provide  that  the  bidders,  s ippliers  and  contractors,  and  their  subcontractors,  agents,
personnel,  consultants, servi.e  providers,  or suppliers,  shall  permit the Bank,  at its request,
to  inspect all  accounts, records,  and other  documents  relating to the submission  of bids and
contract  performance,  and tc  have  them  audited  by  auditors  appointed  by  the  Bank.  Acts
intended  to  materially  imp  de  the  exercise  of  the  Bank's  inspection  and  audit  rights
provided  for in the Procurem  ent Guidelines  constitute an  obstructive  practice  as defined  in
the  Procurement  Guidelines.

(x) 

Fraud  & Corruption

Any bidding  documi  nt and  contract deemed  acceptable  by  the  Bank  shall  include
provisions stating the Bank's policy  to sanction firms or individuals,  found to have  engaged
in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coll  sive,  coercive,  and  obstructive  practices  as  defined  in  the
Procurement  Guidelines.

(xi) 

Conflict  of Interest

Any bidding docum, nt and  contract  deemed  acceptable  by  the  Bank shall  include

provisions  stating the Bank'!  policy  of conflict  of interest.

-23-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Instillment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn as of the :irst Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount of the  Loan
repayable by  the Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined by
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first Principal
the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
Payment Date;  by (b) the Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such
repayable  amount  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred  to
in  paragraph 4  of thi;  Schedule, to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a  Percentage)

On  each  May  15  ar d November  15

Beginning  November  15,  2019 
through No vember  15,  2024

On May  15,  2025 

8.33%

8.37%

2. 

If the proceeds  of th: Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the exter t that any proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  withdrawn as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balan:e  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amoun:  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  n amounts  determined  by the Bank by multiplying  the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Ins  ailment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  fo-  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such

-24-

3. 

(a) 

date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  refirred  to in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  ipplies.

Amounts  of :he  Loan withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months prior  to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  air  ounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
withdrawn  mnd  outstanding  on 
following th,- date  of withdrawal  and shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Dite  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following th - date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstan  ling the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time t ie Bank adopts a due date billing system  under which invoices
are issued or  or after the respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the provisions
of such sub-  aragraph  shall no  longer apply to any withdrawals  made after
the adoption  of such billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2 of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversio  i of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency.  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any  Pri icipal  Payment Date occurring during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  imme4 liately prior  to the Conversion  by either:  (i) the exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Cur  ency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to the  Conversion;  or  (ii) if
the  Bank  so  deterr  ines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Lcan  Balance  is  denominated  in more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of thi;  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Curren -y, so as  to produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

-25-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Act  on  the  Small  Business  Promotion  Development"  means  the  legislation
promulgated  by the  Iorrower  in  the  Official  Gazette  29/2002,  as amended,  which
regulates  the  basis ft r the implementation  of economic  policy  incentives  aimed  at
the development,  restructuring  and  market  adjustment of small  businesses  and the
establishment  of the  Croatian Agency  for SMEs  and  Investment.

"Agreement  on the Merger  of the  Business  Innovation  Agency  of the Republic  of
Croatia (BICRO)  wiih the Croatian Agency  for SMEs  and Investments  (HAMAG-
INVEST)"  means  tle  agreement  of the  same  name  dated  April  8, 2014,  which
regulates  mutual  rig  its  and  obligations  of the  parties  of the  Agreement  (BICRO
and  HAMAG-INVEST)  arising  from  the  transfer  of the  entire  assets,  rights  and
liabilities  of the merged  agency  (BICRO) to  the acquirer  (HAMAG-BICRO).

"Alternative  Investnent  Fund  Act"  means  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  Act
enacted  by  the  Borrower  in  January  2013,  which  sets  forth  the conditions  for  the
investment  funds  ("AlFs")  and
establishment  and 
alternative  investmeit  fund  managers  ("AIFMs"),  and  regulates  the  method  of
issue  and  redemptio  i of units  of AlFs,  marketing  of units  of AlFs,  delegation  of
duties to third parties  and  supervision  of the operation  and management  of AIFN4s,
AlFs, depositaries  aid persons marketing  units  in  AlFs.

:peration  of  alternative 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  ar d  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

in
"Companies  Act"  neans  the  Borrower's  Companies  Act 
June  2013  (Official  3azette  68/2013),  which  regulates  different  types  of business
forms (public  partne  ship,  closed  partnership,joint  stock company,  limited liability
company,  and  ecoromic  interest  grouping)  and  contains  rules  on  groups  of
companies,  mergers.  divisions,  transformations  of companies  and  the  legal  status
of foreign companie;.

last  amended 

"Consultant  Guideliies"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  Ja -uary  2011  (revised July  2014).

-26-

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

site-specific
"Environmental 
environmental  impact assessment  carried  out, as  required,  in  accordance  with the
EMF.

Ir  pact  Assessment"  or  "EIA"  means  any 

"Environmental  Management  Framework"  or  "EMF"  means  the  framework
prepared  by the  Bor -ower, dated  February  2015,  in  form,  substance  and  manner
satisfactory to the Benk, and disclosed on March  17,  2015,consisting  of, inter alia:
the set  of mitigation, monitoring, institutional  and screening  measures required  for
the support to  be pro  vided under the Project as  well as under Subprojects  and to be
taken  to eliminate  a( verse  environmental  impacts,  offset them,  or reduce  them  to
acceptable  levels,  as  well as actions  needed to implement said measures,  including
information  required  for  the  preparation  of  site-specific
the  measures  and 
environmental  management  plans.  The  EMF  may  be  amended  from  time  to tine
with the agreement  < f the  Bank.

site-specific
"Environmental  M inagement  Plan"  or"  EMP"  means  any 
environmental  mane  gement  plan  prepared,  as  required,  in  accordance  with  the
EMF.

"General  Condition  ;"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set  forth  in Section  II of this Appendix.

"Guidelines  on  Sta e  Aid  to  Promote  Risk  Finance  Investments"  means  the
guidelines  of the sarie  name  adopted  by  the  European  Commission  effective  July
1, 2014  (OJ C19,  da ed January  22,  2014).

"HAMAG-BICRO"  or the  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  legal  enlity
established  by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's
Legislation,  or any  1.gal  successor thereto.

"HANFA"  means  the  Borrower's  Financial  Services  Supervisory  Agency,  or any
legal  successor  therc to.

"Ministry  of  Entrerreneurship  and  Crafts"  or  "MoEC"  means  the  Borrower's
Ministry  of Entrepre neurship  and Crafts,  or any  legal  successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Financc " or "MoF"  means the  Borrower's  Ministry of Finance, or any
legal  successor  ther  to.

"Operating  Costs"  rr eans the reasonable  incremental  expenses  incurred  on account
of Project implemen  ation, management  and monitoring, including  office supplies,
the  cost  of  publica  ion  of  procurement  notices,  vehicle  operation,  office  and
equipment  maintena ice and  repair, communication,  translation  and  interpretation,
travel  and supervisic n costs,  and other miscellaneous  costs  directly  associated with

-27-

Project,  as  determined  by  the  Bank  but  excluding  salaries  of  officials  and
employees  of the Bo-ower or the  Project  Implementing Entity.

"PIU"  means  the  Project  Implementation  Unit  established  within  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  responsible  for  implementation  of the  Project,  and  referred
to  in  Section  I, Part  A,  paragraph 2  of the Schedule  to the Project Agreement.

"Private  Placement  viemorandum"  means  the  prospectus  for  shares  in  the  PVC
Fund, detailing all  of  the terms of the investment,  requirements  of the investor, and
proper  disclaimers  a  id  disclosures  related  to the  business  and  the equity.

"Pilot  Venture  Capial  Fund"  or  "PVC  Fund"  means  the  private  venture  capital
fund  to be  established  pursuant to  Part  A  of the  Project.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and Grants  by
World  Bank Borrow-rs"  dated  January  2011  (revised  July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  -neans the Borrower's  procurement  plan  for the Project, da-ed
June 9, 2015  and  ref ,rred to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of tl- e  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from
time to time  in  accot dance  with the  provisions of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Implementi  ig Entity's Legislation"  means  the Act on the Amendments  to
the  Small  Business  Promotion  Development  (Official  Gazette  56/2013)  and  the
Agreement  on  the 1N erger  of the  Business  Innovation  Agency  of the Republic  of
Croatia with  the Croatian  Agency  for SMEs  and  Investments  dated  April  8, 2014.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  or  "POM"  means  the  project  operations  manual,
acceptable  to the  Ba lk  setting forth  procedures  and requirements  for carrying  out
the Project,  and ado  )ted by  the Project  Implementing  Entity,  as the  same  may  be
amended  from time  o  time with  the agreement  of the Bank.

"Project  Steering  C< mmittee"  means  the  Project  Steering  Committee  established
.ccordance  with  Section  1, Part  A,  paragraph  3 of Schedule  2
by  the Borrower  in 
to this  Agreement.

"PVC  Fund  Agreenient"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I, Part  B,
paragraph  (1)(b)(iv)  of Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

"PVC  Investment"  rieans any  equity  investment made  by the PVC Fund  in  a PVC
Beneficiary  which  h is met the eligibility  criteria set  forth  in the POM.

"PVC  Beneficiary"  neans any  SME  or Startup which  has  met the  eligible  criteria
set forth  in the POM  to be  eligible  for a  PVC  Sub-financing.

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

-28-

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

irm"  means  the  firm  selected  to  manage  the  PVC  Fund  and
"PVC  Management 
referred to in Sectior  I, Part B,  paragraph  1(b)(ii)  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

"PVC  Management  Operating  Costs"  means  the  costs  of  establishing  and
operating  the PVC  F ind to  be  paid to the PVC  Management  Firm.

"PVC  Sub-financing " means  a payment  made  out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan to  a
PVC  Beneficiary  in  ,xchange  for a  PVC  Investment.

"PVC  Sub-financing  Agreement"  means  any  agreement  between  the  PVC  Fund
and  a  PVC  Beneficiary  pursuant  to  Schedule  2,  Section  1, Part  B,  paragraph
1(b)(iv)  of this Agre,ment.

"SCI  Subproject"  m  .ans the  productive  purpose  operations  of a  SCI  Beneficiary
which  have  met  the cligibility  criteria  set  forth in  the POM

"SCI Beneficiary"  means  an  SME  or Startup  which  has met the eligible  criteria  set
forth  in  the POM  to  ie eligible  for a  SCI  Sub-financing.
"SCI Sub-financing"  means  a loan made  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  to an  SCI
Beneficiary,  for  the  purpose  of financing  up  to  sixty  percent  (60%)  of  a  SCI
Subproject.

"SCI  Sub-financing  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  between  the  Project
Implementing  Entit)  and  an  SCI  Beneficiary  pursuant  to  Schedule  2,  Section  1,
Part  B, paragraph  1( ))(xii)  of this  Agreement.

"Seed  Co-Investmert  Fund"  or "SCI  Fund"  means  the  financial  vehicle  through
which  SCI  Sub-finai icing  is  provided  to  SCI  Beneficiaries  and  referred  to  in  Part
B  of the Project.

"SMEs"  means  any  nicro,  small  or medium-sized  enterprise  as  defined  in  Annex
I  to  European  Comriission Regulation No.  651/2014.

"Startups"  means an, / SMEs  in the process of becoming  operational or any existing
SME  that  has  yet  to  sell  its  product  or service  commercially,  as  set  forth  in  the
POM.

"Sub-financing"  meins any  PVC  Sub-financing  or any  SCI  Sub-financing.

"Subproject"  means  any PVC  Investment or any  SCI  Subproject.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I, Part  B  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the Loa  available  to the Project  Implementing Entity.

-29-

43. 

1 .

2. 

"Training"  means  Pr)ject-related  training and  includes training  courses, seminars,
workshops  and  othcr  training  activities,  not  included  under  service  providers'
contracts,  including  costs  of  training  materials,  space  and  equipment  rental,
reasonable  and  nece:,sary  local  and international  travel  by  participants  in  training
lodging  and  accommodation,  subsistence  and  local  and
activities,  reasonabl 
international  per  diem  of trainees  and trainers, registration,  tuition and  facilitators'
fees,  translation  and interpretation,  and  other training  related  miscellaneous  costs,
all based on  budgets acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditi:)ns  are  hereby modified  as  follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modifie Ito reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section  3.01. 

(Fr( nt-end Fee) is  modified to read  as follows:

"Section  3.C 1.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
(a) 
amount  at tf e rate  specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdram  n  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement
(the  "Comrr itment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from
a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  wHich  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in  irrears  on each  Payment Date."

3. 

4. 

5. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  mo  ified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  m:dified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Comr  itment Charge",  and  renumbering the  subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:

"Cc  mmitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

"19. 
in  the Loan  Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  )aragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Froni-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

-30-

6. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition of the tern  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified to  read  as  follows:

"Lo,,n  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties
"68. 
to the Bank T ursuant to the Legal  Agreements  or these General  Conditions,
including (bi  it not limited to) any amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end  Fee, the Commitment Charge,  interest at the Default
Interest  Rate  (if any),  any prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a
Conversion  jr  early  termination  of  a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread
Fixing  Char  )e  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount
payable  by t le Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  raragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Paymu  nt  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the words  "and  Com nitment  Charge  are"  after the  word "interest".

