OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8540-DO

Loan Agreement
(Support to the National Education  Pact Project)

DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated:  October  8, 2015

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  October  8,  2015,  between  DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

("Borrower")  and 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower and  the Bank hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General  Conditions (as  defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute

an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used  in this Agreement
have the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the General  Conditions  or  in the  Appendix
to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
the  amount  of  fifty  million  Dollars  (USD
referred  to  in  this  Agreement, 
50,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist in financing  the project  described  in  Schedule  I  to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may  withdraw the proceeds  of the Loan  in accordance  with Section

IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the Borrower  shall be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge payable  by the  Borrower shall be equal to one  quarter of

one percent (0.25%)  per annum on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;  provided,
that  upon  a  Conversion  of all or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
the interest payable  by the Borrower  during the Conversion  Period on such amount
shall be determined  in  accordance  with the  relevant provisions of Article IV  of the
General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment
continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment Dates are February  15  and August  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule  set forth in  Schedule 3  to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable  Rate based on  a Variable
Spread to  a  Variable Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the  setting of
limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to all  or  any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on the
Variable  Rate or the Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph (a)  of this Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the  General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution  Date for  an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw from the  Loan Account and  pay to itself the amounts
required  to  pay any  premium payable  in accordance  with  Section  4.05 (c)
of the General  Conditions  up to the amount  allocated from time to time for
the purpose  in the table in  Section  IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower declares  its commitment  to the objective  of the Project.  To this  end,
the Borrower  shall  carry out the  Project through  MINERD,  with the  participation
in
of  IDEICE,  INAIPI,  INABIE, 
accordance  with  the provisions  of Article V  of the General  Conditions.

INEFI  and  ISFODOSU, 

INAFOCAM, 

-2-

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project is  carried  out in accordance  with the provisions of Schedule
2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that the
National  Education Pact has been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated, or waived  so as
to  affect  materially and  adversely,  in the  opinion of the Bank,  the execution  of the
Project.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for a
period  of  60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement,  but  in  no  case  later  than  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's
approval  of the Loan which expires  on  March 30,  2017.

ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

For  the  purposes  of  Section  10.02  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  Borrower's
Representative  who,  inter alia, may  agree to  modification  of the  provisions  of this
Agreement  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  through  exchange  of  letters  (unless
otherwise  determined  by the Borrower and  the Bank),  is its Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's Address  is:

Ministerio de  Hacienda de la  Rep6blica Dominicana
Av.  M6xico 45,  Gazcue
Santo Domingo de  Guzman, Distrito  Nacional
Republica  Dominicana

Facsimile:
809-688-8838

-3-

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Santo  Domingo,  Dominican  Republic,  as of the day  and year  first

above  written.

DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC

By

By

Name:  Simon  Lizardo Mezquita

Title:  Minister of Finance

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

F'.4TFprsentativ~

Name:  McDonald  P.  Benjamin

Title:  Country Manaaer

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  the  Borrower's  capacity  to:  (i)  recruit
and train primary  and  secondary  school teachers;  (ii)  assess student learning  in primary  and
secondary  education;  (iii)  evaluate  the  quality  of  service  provided  by  Public  Early
Childhood  Development  Center;,  and  (iv)  enhance  the  process  for  decentralizing  public
school management.

The  Project  consists  of  the  provision  of  financing  of  EEPs  to  support  the

implementation  of the National  Education  Pact,  as  set forth  in  the following parts:

Part  1. 

Improving  Capacity to  Recruit  and Train Primary and  Secondary  School Teachers

Carry  out a  comprehensive  revision  of MINERD's  primary  and  secondary  school
teacher  recruitment and  training  activities  based  on professional  standards  for teachers  set
forth  in the  POM,  with a  focus  on:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Pre-service  training  through,  inter alia: (i)  the  revision  of ISFODOSU
teaching  degree  curricula  and  competence  profiles;  (ii)  the  creation  of
specialized  degrees for secondary  school  teachers;  (iii) the implementation
of  a  quality  assurance  and  monitoring  system  for  ISFODOSU;  (iv)  the
implementation  of  a  scholarship  program  to  attract  high-performing
secondary 
the
implementation  of a revised  remedial  program  for admitted  students  with
skill  gaps;  and  (vi)  the  revision  of  the  career  structure  and  promotion
schemes  of ISFODOSU  teachers.

ISFODOSU  pre-service  degrees; 

students 

(v) 

to 

Human  resources  management,  including,  inter alia: (i)  the  design  and
implementation  of a competitive  induction exam and  selection process  for
public school teachers, administrators  and  staff; (ii)  the launch  of an online
teacher  recruitment  system;  and 
launch  of  web-enabled
management  information  systems.

(iii) 

the 

The  teaching  career,  through  supporting,  inter  alia,  the  design,  and
adoption  of:  (i)  guidelines  for  the  teaching  career;  (ii)  a  revised  teacher
evaluation  based  on 
the
implementation  of key  aspects  of the teacher  career,  including,  inter alia,
a  certification  system.

international  best  practices;  and 

(iii) 

In-service training,  through  supporting,  inter alia: (i) the  development  and
piloting  of  in-service  training  programs  for  current  teachers  through

-5-

INAFOCAM;  (ii)  the  revision  of guidelines  and  evaluation of existing  in-
service  programs; 
institutional  capacity  strengthening  for  the
INAFOCAM  evaluation  office;  and  (iv)  an  impact  evaluation  of
INAFOCAM  in-service  programs  with  randomized  assignment.

(iii) 

Part  2.  Improving  Capacity  to  Assess  Student  Learning 
Education

in  Primary  and  Secondary

Support the strengthening  of student assessment  system  through:

Development  and  implementation  of a  national  strategy  for  pre-tertiary
student  assessments.

Participation  in  and  dissemination  of international  assessments.

Technical  improvement  of national  student  assessments.

Design  and  implementation  of a  system  for  dissemination  of results  and
use of assessment  data.

(e) 

Development and  implementation  of a national assessment in  early grades.

Part 3.  Improving  Capacity  to  Evaluate  the  Quality  of Service  Provided  by  Public  Early
Childhood  Development  Centers

Support  the  organizational  design  and  institutional  strengthening  of  INAIPI,
through:

Developing  a  strategic  plan  for INAIPI  and  quality  standards  systems  for
Public  Early Childhood  Development  Centers and  personnel.

Development  and  implementation  of an information  and  communications
strategy  to  disseminate  within  the  Public  Early  Childhood  Development
Centers  standards  of quality  service  delivery,  public understanding  of the
QEC  Program,  and  improve  parenting practices.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

-6-

Part 4.  Improving  Capacity  to  Enhance  the  Process  for  Decentralizing  Public  School
Management

Support the decentralization  of MINERD's  functions and  resources  through:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Supporting the  increase of established  School Management  Committees in
public  schools through  Transfers  to  SMCs.

Supporting  the  review  of  regulations  and  processes  to:  (i) 
increase
efficiency in  establishing SMCs;  and (ii)  streamline SMC account  opening
procedures.

Implementation  of a  functional  expenditure  system  for SMCs.

Improving  the training  of SMCs to develop  school improvement  plans and
annual  work plans.

Improving  financial  and  procurement  practices  at  the  school  level.

Revising  school  auditing  guidelines  and procedures.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  vest  the  overall  responsibility  for  the  implementation  of the
Project  in  MINERD,  and  the  responsibility  for  coordination,  monitoring  and
evaluation 
the
implementation  of  the  Project,  OCI  with  powers,  functions,  capacity,  staffing,
terms  of reference,  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  fulfill  its respective
functions  under the Project,  as  set forth  in  the Project  Operations  Manual.

the  Borrower,  shall  maintain  during 

in  OCI.  To  this  end, 

The Borrower,  through  MINERD,  shall establish  not later than  February  28, 2016,
and 
thereafter  maintain,  a  Project  Steering  Committee  with  composition
(consisting  of,  inter alia: (i)  a  representative  of OCI; (ii)  a  representative  of the
MINERD's  Vice-Ministry  of Planning;  (iii)  a  representative  of the  MINERD's
Vice-Ministry  of Technical  and  Pedagogical  Services;  and  (iv)  a  representative  of
the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance),  functions  and  responsibilities,  acceptable  to
the  Bank.  The  Steering  Committee's  responsibilities  shall  include,  inter alia: (i)
providing  strategic  guidance  to  MINERD  for overall Project  implementation;  (ii)
regularly  reviewing  Project  monitoring  and  evaluation data  to determine  progress
and  proposing  adjustments  to  MINERD  to  ensure  satisfactory achievement  of the
Project  objective;  (iii)  monitoring  MINERD's  sufficient  budgetary  allocation  for
the carrying  out the audit  and verification  obligations under the Project  in a manner
satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  (iv)  overseeing  the  reporting,  documentation  and
submission  of  DLI  achievement,  and  the  timely  submission  of  withdrawal
applications;  and  (v)  overseeing  the  coordination  of technical  and  decentralized
units of MINERD  and  respective  key  stakeholders  on  key  policy  issues  related  to
Project  implementation.

3. 

No  later than six  (6)  months from  the  Effective  Date, the  Borrower  shall  cause  its
Ministry  of Finance  and  MINERD  to  enter  into  an  inter-institutional  agreement,
under  terms and  conditions  acceptable  to the  Bank,  which  shall include,  inter alia
(i)  the  obligation  of  the  Borrower  to  allocate  sufficient  resources  from  the
Borrower's  Budget  to  MINERD  as  required  to  enable  MINERD  to  carry  out  the
Project;  and  (ii)  the  obligation of MINERD  to  maintain  the  OCI  under  terms  and
conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  allocate  budget resources  for  the carrying
out of the  Borrower's reporting  obligations under this Agreement.

-8-

Project Operations Manual

B. 

1. 

Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Article V of the General  Conditions and
Section  I.A.  of this  Schedule,  and  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Borrower,  through  MINERD,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
terms of the Project  Operations  Manual,  which  shall  include,  inter alia:

(i) 

(ii) 

their
the  detailed  description  of  Project 
sequencing,  timetable,  benchmarks  and  the  institutional  arrangements  of
the  Project;

implementation  activities, 

the  Project  administrative,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting,  financial
(including  cash  flow  aspects 
in  relation  thereto),  procurement  and
disbursement  procedures  (including  all  pertinent  standard  documents  and
model  contracts  in  relation  thereto);

(iii) 

the plan  for the monitoring  and  supervision  of the  Project;

(iv) 

arrangements 
implementation, 
achievement;

for  monitoring,  evaluation,  and  reporting  of  Project
to  confirm  DLI

including  Verification  Protocols 

(v) 

the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the  entities 
implementation;

involved 

in  Project

(vi) 

the indicators  to  evaluate  the performance  of the Project;

(vii) 

the criteria  for the preparation  of Customized  Statements  of Expenditures
Reports;  and

(viii) 

the  SMCs  Operations  Manual.

2. 

3. 

Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree  in writing,  the Borrower
shall  not abrogate,  amend,  suspend,  terminate,  waive  or  otherwise  fail to  enforce
the  Project  Operations  Manual  or any  provision thereof.

In the case  of any conflict  between the terms of the Project  Operations  Manual and
those  of this Agreement,  the terms of this Agreement  shall prevail.

-9-

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower,  through  MINERD,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the
Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Section
5.08 of the  General Conditions  and  on the  basis  of the indicators  acceptable  to the
Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and
shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank not  later  than  forty  five  (45)  days  after the  end  of
the period  covered  by  such  report.

Financial  Management,  Financial  Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause  to  be  maintained  a financial  management
system 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  MINERD,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of the  Project
Report after the end  of each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial reports
for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  MINERD,  shall have  its Financial  Statements in respect  of
the  Project  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the
General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall cover the  period
of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements for each  such
period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later than  four  months  after the  end  of
such  period.

Independent Performance Audit

No  later  than  three  months  prior  to  the  submittal  of a withdrawal  request  as  set
forth  in  Section  IV  below,  the  Borrower,  through  MINERD,  shall  engage,  under
terms of reference and with  qualifications  satisfactory to  the Bank, a Project Audit

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

C. 

1. 

-10-

2. 

3. 

A. 

1  .

2. 

B. 

1  .

Consultant,  for  purposes  of carrying  out  the  Independent  Performance  Audit  in
respect of DLIs  16  and 20,  set forth  in Schedule  4 to  this Agreement.

The  Borrower,  through  MINERD,  shall  ensure  independent  monitoring  and
evaluation  of the  Project, through  the carrying  out of an  Independent Performance
Audit  certifying  the  extent  to  which,  in  respect  of DLIs  16,  and  20:  (a)  Eligible
Expenditures  under  the  Project  have  been  incurred  in  compliance  with  the
arrangements  provided  for in  this  Agreement,  and  in  the  Operations  Manual;  (b)
the  Disbursement-Linked  Indicators  have  been  met;  and  (c)  the  Additional
Instructions have  been adhered  to by  the Borrower.
No  later than  November  I  of each  calendar year  during  Project  implementation,
the Borrower  shall furnish to  the Bank a complete  Independent  Performance  Audit
Report  including  all the  findings  and  results  from  the  Independent  Performance
Audit,  as well  as the  certifications  from the  Project Audit Consultant  of the degree
of achievement  of the  Disbursement  Linked  Indicators.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the  Project and to  be financed  out of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I  of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

Methods  of Procurement of  Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods  may  be  used  for  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  financed  under  the  SMC  Transfers:  (a)  Shopping;  and  (b)
Direct  Contracting.

-11-

C. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All  contracts  shall  be subject  to Post  Review by  the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article 11  of the General  Conditions, this Section,  and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised
from time  to time by  the Bank and  as  made  applicable to  this Agreement pursuant
finance  Eligible
to  such 
Expenditures under EEPs, as  measured against  specific  DLIs,  all as  set  forth  in the
table  in  paragraph  2 below.
The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed for  Eligible Expenditures  in each  Category.

instructions)  (the  "Additional 

Instructions"), 

to 

Category 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

(1)  Payments  for EEPs 

49,875,000 

(2)  Front-end  Fee 

125,000 

(3)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

0 

50,000,000

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed

100%  up to  the amount  of the
Loan  allocated  to  each DLI,
as set forth  in  Schedule  4 to
this Agreement
Amount payable  pursuant  to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

-12-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  ten million  Dollars
(USD  10,000,000)  may  be  made  for  payments  made  up  to  twelve  (12)
months  prior to the date  of this Agreement;  and

for  any  DLI,  until  and  unless  the  Borrower  has  furnished  evidence
satisfactory  to the Bank that  said  DLI  has  been achieved.

With  respect  to  withdrawals  under  Category  1,  and  as  provided  under  paragraph
B. 1(b)  of this  Section,  payments  shall  be  made  in  November  of,  or  a  soon  as
practicable  thereafter  in,  each  year  during  Project  implementation  upon  timely
submittal  by  the  Borrower  of a  withdrawal  request  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and
pursuant  to  the  Additional  Instructions.  Such  withdrawal  request  shall  include
evidence  in  form  and  substance  acceptable  to  the  Bank of:  (i)  EEPs  incurred,  as
presented  in  a Customized  Statement  of Expenditures  Report;  and  (ii)  supporting
documentation  confirming  the  Borrower's  achievement  of the  respective  DLI,  as
referred  to  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement,  and  as  set  forth  in  the  Verification
Protocols.  The  Bank  may  accept  withdrawal  requests  submitted  pursuant  to  the
provisions  of this  section,  in  respect  of any  DLI,  except  Scalable  DLIs,  achieved
prior to the  date  by which  such  DLI  is set to be  achieved.

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  B.1(b)  and B.2 of this Section,  if the
Bank  is  not  satisfied  that  any  DLI  under  Category  (1)  has  been  achieved  by  the
date  by which  the  respective  DLI  is  set to  be  achieved,  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  4
to  this  Agreement,  the  Bank  may  at  any  time,  and  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,
decide,  in  its sole discretion  to:

(a) 

in  respect  of Scalable  DLIs  (DLIs 4,  8,  12,  16,  20):

(i) 

the  withdrawal  of  such 

the
authorize 
unwithdrawn  proceeds  of  the  Loan  then  allocated  to  the  said
Scalable  DLI  which,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  corresponds  to
the  degree  of achievement  of said  Scalable  DLI  calculated  as  set
forth  in the Verification  Protocols;

lesser  amount  of 

-13-

(ii) 

that 

the  unwithdrawn 

the
authorize 
corresponding  disbursement  for a partially  achieved  Scalable  DLI
to  the  immediately
had  been  reduced,  be  carried  forward 
subsequent  withdrawal,  pending  further  achievement  of  the
respective  Scalable  DLI;  and/or

amount  by  which 

(iii) 

cancel  all or  a portion  of the proceeds  of the  Loan then  allocated
to  said Scalable  DLI.

(b) 

in respect of any  DLI which  is  not a Scalable  DLI:

(i) 

(ii) 

withhold  the  unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the Loan  then  allocated  to
said  DLI  until  the  Bank is  satisfied  that  said  DLI  has  been  fully
achieved;  or

(1)  reallocate  all  or  a  portion  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  then
allocated  to  said DLI  to  any  other  DLI;  and/or  (2)  cancel  all  or a
portion  of the  proceeds of the  Loan then allocated to said DLI.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  B.1,  B.2, and  B.3  above,  the  Bank
shall  not  be  required  to  make  further  disbursements  if the  Borrower  shall  have
failed  to furnish  to the  Bank, within the  period of time  specified  in Section  II.C of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  any  of the  audit reports required  to  be furnished  to
the  Bank pursuant to  said  Section.

If, at any time, the Bank determines  that any  portion of the  amounts withdrawn  by
the  Borrower  under  Category  (1)  was  made:  (i)  for ineligible  expenditures;  or  (ii)
not  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of part  B.2  of this  Section,  the  Borrower
shall  promptly  refund  any  such  amount  to  the Bank  as the  Bank  shall  specify  by
notice to  the Borrower.  The Bank shall  cancel  such refunded  amount.

6. 

The Closing Date  is June  30,  2020.

-14-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  been fully
withdrawn as  of the first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower on each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date;  by  (b) the Installment  Share for each  Principal  Payment Date,  such
repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in paragraph 4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On each  February  15  and  August  15

Beginning February  15,  2027
through  August  15,  2039 

On  February  15,  2040 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a  Percentage)

3.70%
3.80%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully  withdrawn  as of the first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent  that any proceeds  of the Loan  have been withdrawn  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

-15-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn  within two  calendar months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the date  of withdrawal  and  shall be repayable  on  each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal  Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall  no longer apply to  any withdrawals made after
the  adoption  of such  billing  system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any Principal Payment  Date  occurring  during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to the Conversion  by either:  (i)  the  exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in more  than one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in each  Loan Currency,  so as  to produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

4. 

5. 

-16-

SCHEDULE  4

Disbursement-Linked  Indicators
Disbursement-Linked  Indicators, by  expected  calendar year of completion  (by  October 15  of each year)
DLs eligible for partial achievement  are marked  "Scalable"

2015 

2016 

2017 

2018 

2019

DLI  1:  ISFODOSU's 
revised  standardized 
entrance  examination 
is applied  to all  its 
applicants 
(Value:  USD  2.5 M) 

DLI 5:  Dissemination 
of professional 
standards  for teachers 
started 
(Value:  USD  2.5  M) 

DLI  8:  ISFODOSU 
offers two  new 
degrees  for training 
secondary-level 
teachers 
(Scalable) 
(Value:  USD  2.5  M) 

DLI  2:  MINERD 

DLI  6: MINERD  aligns 

DLI  12: 
INAFOCAM  and 
ISFODOSU's  annual 
financial  reports  are 
prepared  using 
SIGEF 
(scalable) 

(Value: USD  3.0 M) 

DLI  13: 20% of 

DLI  17:  ISFODOSU
has  started the
implementation of its
own  professional
development plan for
its educators
(Value: USD  2.375

M)

DLI  18:

competitive entrance 
exam to hire  teachers 
(Concurso de 
(on 

(Value:  USD  2.5  M) 

teaphers  have  been 
career  and evaluation 
am 
entrance 
evaluated  using the 
system  (based  on 
ith 
Oposiciun) 
eautdsighe 
standards)  has  been 
U-oiin  ih 
teacher career  and 
adopted  by  MINERD 
professional  standards 
eautosyem 
(Value:  UJSD  2.5  M) 
(Value:  USD  2.5 M)(Value: USD  2.5  M) 

chsD25M 

fValue 

in-service  training
programs  based on
results  from
assessments  and/or
impact  evaluations
(Value:  USD  2.5  M)

DLI 3:  PISA  2015 
applied by  MINERD 
(Value:  USD  3.0  M) 

DLI 7:  The 
implementation  of the 
Student assessment 
strategy  has  started 

(Value:  USD  2.5  M) 

DLI  10: MINERD 
pilots,  and  based upon 
the results  of the pilot, 
revises  then 
dissemination 
component  of the 

Student  ssessment 
(Value: USD  2.5  M) 

Improing tassessment for  Public 

functioning  Public

DLI  19:  MINERD's
Student  Assessment
DLI  14:  MINERD 
administers  a  student  Directorate  staff have
received  training on
assessment  for  the 
sampling,  item
first  cycle  of primary 
dsig,  te
e  on 
design,  database
education 

(Value: USD  2.5  M) 

statistical  software

(Value:  USD  2.5  M)

DLI  15: Pilot 

DLI 20:  50% of

Early Childhood 

Early Childhood

Development Centers  Development  Centers

carried  out 
(Value: USD  2.5  M) 

are  assessed  for
quality  standards

(Scalable)
(Value: USD  2.5  M)

DLI  4:  250  additional 
School  Management 
Committees (Juntas de 
Centro)  receive 

Transfers  to  SMCs. 
(Scalable) 
(Value:  USD  2.0  M) 

DLI  11:  New 
functional  spending 
guidelines  for School 
Management 
Commees  ab 
MINERD 
(Value:  USD  2.0  M) 

DLI  16:  1,750  School
Management
Mmitteent
de  Centro)  are fully
functional
(Scalable)
(Value:  USD 2.5  M)

10 mill. 

7.5  mill. 

9.5  mill. 

13  mill. 

9.875  mill

-17-

Improving 
capacity to 
recruit and train 
primary  and
secondary school 
teachers 

Improving 
capacity to 
assess student 
learning in 
primary and 

ep  a on 

evaluate the 
quality ofservice 
provision Public 
Early  Childhood 
Development 
Centers 

Improving 
capacity to 
enhance te 

decentralized 
public school 
management 

Estimated 
disbursementI

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Additional  Instructions"  means  the  additional  instructions  referred  to  in  Section
IV.A. 1  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,  dated  as  of even  date  herewith,  as  such
Additional  Instructions  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and
delivered to  the Borrower.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Borrower's  Budget"  means  the  Borrower's  annual  budget,  approved  by  the
Borrower's  Parliament,  from  time to time.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Customized  Statement of Expenditures Report"  means any report prepared  by the
Borrower  in accordance  with the Additional  Instructions and  set forth in the Project
Operations  Manual  and  referred  to  in  Section  IV.B.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  on  the  spending  status  of  the  EEPs  in  relation  to  the  Borrower's
Budget.

"Disbursement-Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  an  indicator,  set  forth  in
Schedule  4  of  this  Agreement,  the  achievement  of which  is  a  condition  for
disbursement  of Loan  Proceeds,  pursuant  to  Section  IV.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Education  Law"  means  the  Borrower's  Law  66-97,  dated  April  9,  1997,  as
amended  to the  date  of this Agreement.

"Eligible  Expenditure  Programs"  or  "EEPs"  means  a  set of defined  expenditures
within  the  Borrower's  Budget  for  financing  of  (a)  remuneration  of  staff  of
ISFODOSU,  INAFOCAM,  IDEICE,  INABIE,  and  INEFI; (b)  fuel  and  lubricants
for  ISFODOSU's  vehicles  used  in  respect  of  the  Project;  and  (c)  Transfers  to
SMCs.

-18-

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in Section  11  of this Appendix.

"IDEICE"  means  Instituto  Dominicano de  Evaluaci6n  e  Investigaci6n de  la
Calidad Educativa,  the  Dominican  Institute  of  Research  and  Evaluation,
established  as  a  decentralized  entity  of MINERD,  pursuant  to  Order  03-2008  of
the  National  Education  Council  and pursuant  to  Article  78  of the Education  Law,
or any  successor thereto  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

"INABIE"  means  Instituto Nacional de  Bienestar Estudiantil, the  Borrower's
National  Student  Well-being  Institute,  established  as  a  decentralized  entity  of
MINERD,  pursuant to Article  177  of the Education  Law,  or any  successor thereto
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

"INAFOCAM"  means  Instituto  Nacional  de  Formaci6n y  Capacitaci6n del
Magisterio,  the  National  Institute  of  Education  and  Training  of  Teachers,
established  as  a  decentralized  entity  of MINERD,  pursuant  to  Article  129  of the
Education  Law,  or any  successor thereto  satisfactory to the  Bank.

"INAIPI" means  Instituto Nacional de Atencidn Integral a la Primera Infancia,
the  National  Institute  of Comprehensive  Care  for  Early  Childhood,  established  as
a decentralized  entity of MINERD,  pursuant to  Article 7  of the  Borrower's Decree
102-13,  dated  April  12,  2013,  or any  successor thereto  satisfactory  to the Bank.

"Independent  Performance  Audit"  means  the  annual  audit  carried  out  by  the
Project  Audit  Consultant,  referred  to  in  Section  II.C.1  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Independent  Performance  Audit  Report"  means the  report by  the  Project  Audit
Consultant  integrating  the  results  of the  Independent  Performance  Audit,  to  be
prepared  and furnished to the  Bank pursuant to  Section  II.C.3  of Schedule  2 to this
Agreement.

"INEFI" means  Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n Fisica, the  Borrower'  National
Physical  Education  Institute,  established  as  a  decentralized  entity  of MINERD,
pursuant  to the  Borrower's  Law  165-07,  dated  July 4,  2007,  which modified  Law
33-98,  dated  January  16,  1998,  or any  successor thereto  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

-19-

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"ISFODOSU"  means  Instituto  de  Formaci6n  Docente  Salomd  Urefia,  the
Borrower's  Salom6  Urefia  Teacher  Training  Institute,  established  as  a
decentralized  entity  of MINERD,  pursuant  to Decree  427-00,  dated  August  15,
2000,  and  Decree  571-03,  dated  June  16,  2003,  or  any  successor  thereto
satisfactory to the  Bank.

"MINERD"  means  Ministerio  de  Educaci6n,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of
Education,  or any  successor thereto  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

"National  Education Pact"  means  the Pacto Nacional Para la Reforma Educativa
en la Republica Dominicana (2014-2030), dated  April  1,  2014,  set forth pursuant
to  the  Borrower's  National  Development  Strategy  2030  (Law  1-12),  and  Decree
228-13,  a  document  reflecting  a broad-based  consensus  among  the  Borrower's
in  the
key  stakeholders,  and  aimed  at  transforming  the  education  system 
Borrower's  territory.

"OCI" means  Oficina de Cooperaci6n Internacional, the MINERD's  International
Cooperation  Office,  responsible  for  coordinating  and  overseeing  the  Borrower's
internationally  funded  projects  in  the  education  sector,  or  any  successor  thereto
satisfactory to the Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011,  as  revised  in July 2014.

"Project Audit Consultant"  means  an independent  consultant in  charge  of carrying
out the Independent  Performance  Audit.

"Project  Operations Manual"  or "POM"  means the manual referred  in Section  I.B
of Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  setting forth  the  operational  and administrative
responsibilities,  procedures  and  rules for the  implementation  of the  Project.

"Project  Steering Committee"  means the committee  referred  to  in  section  I.A.2  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  tasked  with  overall  guidance  and  coordination
oversight  of the Project.

"Public  Early  Childhood  Development  Centers"  means  Centros de  Atenci6n
Integral para la Primera Infancia (Estancias Infantiles), the Borrower's  centers,
established and  functioning under the QEC Program.

-20-

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

"QEC Program"  means  Sistema Nacional de Protecci6n a la Primera Infancia,
also  referred  to  as  Quisqueya Empieza Contigo, the  Borrower's  program  for the
provision  of early  childhood  development  services  as set  forth  in the  Borrower's
Decree  102-13,  dated  April  12,  2013,  or a  successor  program  satisfactory  to the
Bank.
"Scalable  DLIs"  means  DLIs  4,  8,  12,  16,  and  20,  which,  in  case  of  non-
achievement,  or  partial  achievement  thereof,  may  be  carried  forward  to  a
subsequent  withdrawal  period, with the  Bank's prior approval.
"School  Management  Committees"  or  "SMCs"  means  Juntas de  Centro,  as  set
forth in Article 93  of the  Borrower's  Education  Law.
"SMCs  Operations  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  Manual de  Operaci6n de
Juntas Escolares and the Instructivo para el Manejo de Fondos Transferidos a las
Juntas Regionales, de Distrito y  Centro Educativo, satisfactory  to the  Bank,  and
incorporated  in the  Project Operations Manual.
"Transfers  to  SMCs" means  periodic  transfers  of budgetary  funds by MINERD  to
the account of an  SMC for the purposes  of supporting the development  of schools,
managing of human,  physical,  and  financial resources,  and promoting  community
participation  in  school  activities  and  decisions,  all  in  accordance  with  the  SMCs
Operations  Manual,  and the  Borrower's  applicable  laws  and regulations.
"Verification  Protocols"  means  the  set  of protocols  setting  forth the  actions and
mechanisms  required for verification  of DLIs,  agreed  with  the Bank and  included
in the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement,  as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the  Bank.

Section II. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General Conditions  are hereby  modified as follows:
In the  Table  of  Contents, the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs  below.
(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read as follows:

Section 3.01. 

1. 

2. 

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

-21-

The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate  specified in the Loan  Agreement (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from a date sixty
days  after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective  dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."
In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.
The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."
In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).
In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition of the term  "Loan Payment"  is modified to read as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the  Commitment Charge,  interest at the Default Interest Rate  (if any), any
prepayment premium,  any transaction  fee for a Conversion or early termination  of
a Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable
upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any
Unwinding Amount payable  by the Borrower."
In the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is modified  by  deleting the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the  words "and  Commitment  Charge are" after the word "interest".

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

-22-

