LOAN  NUMBER  8577-IQ

Loan Agreement
(Emergency Fiscal Stabilization,  Energy Sustainability,  and State-Owned
Enterprise Transparency Development  Policy  Loan)

REPUBLIC  OF IRAQ

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2015

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN  NUMBER  8577-IQ

AGREEMENT  dated  hQ 

,  2015,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC
OF  IRAQ  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the purpose  of providing financing  in  support of the  Program  (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis,  inter alia,  of:  (a)  the actions  which the Borrower  has already  taken  under the  Program  and
which  are  described  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower's
maintenance  of  an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
therefore hereby  agree as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an

integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  H - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank agrees to  lend to the Borrower,  on the terms and conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this  Agreement, 
the  amount  of  one  billion  two  hundred  million  Dollars
($1,200,000,000),  as such  amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
Conversion in accordance  with the provisions  of Section 2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program  in

accordance  with Section  II  of Schedule 1  to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable by  the Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one quarter  of one percent

(0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%) per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05.  The interest  payable by the Borrower  for each  Interest  Period shall  be at a rate equal to the
Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all or any portion of the principal  amount  of the Loan,  the interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable by the Borrower shall  instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e)
of the General  Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment Dates are  April  1  and October  1  in  each year.

-2-

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule set  forth  in Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any  of the following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i)  a  change of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn,  to an Approved Currency;  (ii) a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to:  (A)  all or any portion of the principal  amount  of the Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the setting of limits on the Variable  Rate or the
Reference  Rate applicable to  all or any portion of the principal amount  of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment  of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion  requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section  that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and shall  be  effected  in accordance  with the provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar for which the Borrower  has requested  that  the premium  be paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05(c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time to  time  for the purpose  in  the table  in  Section  II  of
Schedule  1  to this Agreement.

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank
may, from time to time,  reasonably request.

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01.  The Borrower declares  its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this end,

and  further to  Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the Borrower and the Bank  shall  from time  to  time,  at the request  of either party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress achieved  in carrying  out the Program;

-3-

(b) 

(c) 

prior to  each  such exchange  of views,  the  Borrower shall  furnish to the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in such detail  as the Bank  shall reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation upon  the provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this  Section,
the Borrower  shall promptly  inform the Bank of any situation that would have  the
effect  of materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the Program  or any  action taken
under the Program,  including any action specified in  Section I of Schedule  1  to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional  Event of Suspension consists of the  following,  namely,  that a situation has
arisen which  shall  make  it  improbable  that the Program,  or  a  significant  part  of it, will  be
carried  out.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness  consists of the following,  namely,  that the Bank
is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved  by  the Borrower  in  carrying  out the  Program  and
with the adequacy of the  Borrower's macroeconomic  policy framework.

5.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline is the date ninety (90)  days after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01.  The Borrower's Representative  is its minister responsible  for finance.

6.02.  The Borrower's Address is:

Ministry of Finance
Hay Alaloom
Bab Al  Mu'dham
Baghdad
Iraq

6.03.  The Bank's  Address is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Washington D.C.,  United States of America, as of the day and year first above

written.

-4-

REPUBLIC  OF IRAQ

Authorized  Representative

Name:  LA  N\ 

./  L  4

Title: 

le:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized Representative

Name: 

&  ZA-04 0

Title:

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan  Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Program

A. 

Actions  Taken Under the Program

The actions  taken by the Borrower  under the Program include the following:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The Council of Ministers  approved  a  new  salary  scale for state and public  sector
employees,  effective  November  1,  2015,  in which  the  salaries  of public  sector
employees  in higher  grades  are  reduced (Council  of Ministers  Decision No.  366
of 2015, dated  October  15, 2015).

The  Borrower's  Prime  Minister  adopted  the  Public  Investment  Management
Framework  which  covers  project  feasibility,  implementation,  operation,  and ex-
post  evaluation phases  (Decree No. 445,  dated October  18,  2015).

The  Borrower's  Minister  of Finance  established  a  debt  management  section
within  the  Ministry  of Finance  (Ministerial  Order No.  4340,  dated  October  19,
2015).

The National  Board  of Pensions implemented  a campaign  to  clean  its retiree data
registry resulting  in the removal  of at least  thirty thousand  (30,000)  non-eligible
retirees.

The Energy  Committee  of the  Council  of Ministers  approved  the implementation
plan proposed  by the  Ministry  of Oil setting  forth targets  for the reduction  of gas
flaring for the period 2015-2018,  in  support of the  objective of achieving  zero gas
flaring by 2030 (Energy Committee Decision  No.  17, dated November  9, 2015).

The  Council  of  Ministers  approved  the  establishment  of  an  inter-ministerial
committee,  including the Ministers  of Oil, Electricity,  and Finance,  which shall be
tasked  with developing  an  action plan  to  utilize  gas  in  electric power  generation
(Council of Ministers  Decision No. 370  of 2015, dated  October  19,  2015).

The Energy  Committee  of the Council  of Ministers  approved  the  implementation
of a new unsubsidized  commercial  tariff for large commercial  consumers  (except
hospitals)  that  choose  to  avail  themselves of continuous  (twenty-four  (24)  hours,
seven (7)  days a week)  electricity supply under bilateral contracts with the Ministry
of Electricity  (Energy Committee Decision No.  6,  dated May 25,  2015).

The  Prime  Minister  established  a  committee  to set  up,  operate,  and  supervise  a
database to monitor the fiscal risks of non-financial  SOEs, and update  and publish
the  financial  and employment  data  of said non-financial  SOEs  (Decree  No. 446,
dated October  18, 2015).

The  Council  of Ministers  issued  a  decision  aimed  at  leveling  the  playing  field
between  public  and  private  banking  institutions  by  expanding  the  range  of

-6-

financial  services  that  private  banks  are  allowed  to  provide  to  government
ministries  and  SOEs  (Council  of Ministers  Decision  No.  370  of  2015,  dated
October  19,  2015).

10. 

The Borrower passed the Combatting of Money Laundering and the Financing of
Terrorism  Law  No.  39  of 2015,  aimed  at  reducing  money  laundering  activities
and the financing  of terrorism.

Section  H. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

B. 

General.  The  Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice to  the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan  (except  for amounts  required  to pay the  Front-
end Fee)  is  allocated  in a single  withdrawal  tranche,  from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals  of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation  of the  amounts of the  Loan to this  end is
set out in the table below:

Allocations 

(1)  Single Withdrawal  Tranche 

(2)  Front-end  Fee 

Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT 

(3)  Amount due pursuant to  Section 2.08(c)  of this 

Amount  of the Loan
(expressed  in USD)

1,197,000,000

3,000,000

0

1,200,000,000

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche  Release  Conditions.  No  withdrawal  shall  be  made of the  Single
Withdrawal  Tranche unless the Bank is  satisfied:  (a) with the Program being carried out by
the  Borrower,  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

D. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may  otherwise agree:

1. 

2. 

all  withdrawals  from the  Loan  Account  shall  be deposited  by the  Bank  into  an
account  designated  by  the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (the  "Deposit
Account");  and

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into the
Deposit Account,  an equivalent  amount  is accounted  for in the Borrower's  budget
management  system,  in  a manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

-7-

E. 

Audit. The Borrower shall:

1. 

2. 

3. 

have the Deposit Account audited by independent  auditors acceptable  to the Bank,
in accordance with consistently  applied auditing standards  acceptable  to the Bank;

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in  any  case  not  later  than  six  (6)
months  after  the  date  of  the  deposit  of the  Loan  into  the  Deposit  Account,  a
certified  copy  of the report  of such audit,  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as the
Bank shall reasonably request,  and make  such report  publicly available in a timely
fashion  and in a manner acceptable  to the Bank; and

furnish  to  the Bank  such other  information  concerning  the  Deposit  Account  and
their audit as the Bank  shall reasonably request.

F. 

Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that  the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that  an
amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,  refund an amount  equal to the amount
of such payment  to the Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  Bank upon  such request  shall be
cancelled.

G. 

Closing  Date.  The Closing Date is  December 31,  2016.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

The following  table  sets forth the Principal  Payment Dates  of the Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the Loan  repayable  by the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a)  Withdrawn Loan Balance  as  of the first Principal  Payment Date;  by (b)  the Installment
Share for each Principal  Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

April  1,  2021 

October  1,  2021 

April  1,  2022 

October  1,  2022 

April  1,  2023 

October  1,  2023 

April  1,  2024 

October  1,  2024 

April  1,  2025 

October  1,  2025 

April  1,  2026 

October  1,  2026 

April  1,  2027 

October  1,  2027 

April  1,  2028 

October  1,  2028 

April  1,  2029 

October  1,  2029 

April  1,  2030 

October  1,  2030 

April  1,  2031 

October  1,  2031 

3.46%

3.55%

3.64%

3.73%

3.82%

3.92%

4.01%

4.11%

4.22%

4.32%

4.43%

4.54%

4.65%

4.77%

4.89%

5.01%

5.14%

5.27%

5.40%

5.53%

5.67%

5.92%

-9-

2. 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent that  any proceeds  of the Loan  have been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal Payment  Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance as
of such date in accordance  with paragraph  1  of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment  Date falling after the date  of such withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount  of each such withdrawal  by a
fraction, the numerator  of which  is the original Installment  Share  specified  in the
table in  paragraph  1  of this  Schedule for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date, such  amounts repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the principal  amounts
payable  on any Principal  Payment Date,  be  treated as withdrawn  and outstanding
on the  second Principal  Payment  Date  following the date of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the Bank adopts  a due date billing system under which invoices  are issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  1  and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,  shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (a)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency payable  by the Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (b)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the Screen Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this Schedule shall  apply separately to the amount  denominated in each Loan
Currency,  so as to produce a separate  amortization  schedule  for each such amount.

-10-

APPENDIX

Section I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"Combatting  of Money  Laundering  and the Financing  of Terrorism  Law No. 39 of 2015"
means the  Borrower's  law  of the  same  name,  approved  by  the Council  of Ministers,  on
September  16,  2015.

"Council  of Ministers"  means the Borrower's  Council of Ministers.

"Council  of Representatives"  means the  Borrower's Council  of Representatives.

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for goods or services supplied under a  contract which any national or international
financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed to finance,  or which the Bank or the Association has  financed or agreed
to  finance under another loan,  credit,  or grant;

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United Nations  in Statistical  Papers,  Series M, No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the SITC), or
any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated by the Bank by notice to  the Borrower:

Group 

Sub-group 

Description  of Item

112 

121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 

897 

971 

Alcoholic  beverages

Tobacco,  un-manufactured,  tobacco refuse

Tobacco,  manufactured  (whether or not
containing  tobacco  substitutes)

Radioactive  and associated  materials

Pearls,  precious  and semiprecious  stones,
unworked or worked

Nuclear reactors,  and parts thereof;  fuel
elements  (cartridges),  non-irradiated,  for
nuclear reactors

Jewelry  of gold,  silver or platinum group
metals  (except watches  and watch  cases) and
goldsmiths'  or  silversmiths'  wares  (including
set  gems)

Gold,  non-monetary  (excluding  gold ores and
concentrates)

718.7 

897.3 

728.43 

Tobacco  processing machinery

-11-

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the manufacture,  use or  import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international  agreements to which the
Borrower  is a party;

on account  of any payment  prohibited by a decision of the United Nations  Security
Council  taken under Chapter  VH of the Charter of the United Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate  action satisfactory to the Bank to address  such
practices  when they  occur.

"General  Conditions" means the "International  Bank  for Reconstruction and Development
General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012,  with the modifications  set  forth  in
Section II  of this Appendix.

"Ministry  of Electricity"  means the Borrower's  ministry responsible  for electricity.

"Ministry  of Finance" means the Borrower's  ministry responsible  for finance.

"Ministry  of Oil" means the Borrower's  ministry responsible  for oil.

"National  Board  of Pensions"  means  the  National  Board  of  Pensions,  the  Borrower's
agency  responsible  for  the  management  and  administration  of  government-sponsored
pension  systems.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  promote
growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the
letter  dated  December  1,  2015,  from  the Borrower  to the  Bank  declaring  the Borrower's
commitment  to the execution  of the  Program,  and requesting  assistance  from the Bank  in
support  of the Program during its execution.

"Public  Investment  Management  Framework"  means  the public  investment  management
framework developed by the Borrower's  Ministry of Planning setting forth procedures  for
the  formulation,  preparation,  implementation,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  public
investment  projects,  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower's  Prime  Minister pursuant  to  Decree
No. 455, dated October  18,  2015.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of Section  II  of
Schedule  1  to this Agreement.

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

"SOEs"  means state owned enterprises.

-12-

1. 

2. 

3. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Section H. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General Conditions  are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table  of  Contents, the references  to  Sections,  Section  names and Section  numbers
are modified  to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs  below.

The last sentence of paragraph  (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications  for Withdrawal)
is deleted  in its entirety.

Sections  2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted  in their
entirety,  and the remaining  Sections  in Article II  are  renumbered accordingly.

4. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay the Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at the rate

(a) 
specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end Fee").

(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a  commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance  at the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement to the respective  dates on which amounts  are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall be payable  semi-annually
in arrears  on each Payment Date."

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits)  are deleted  in their  entirety,  and the  subsequent  Sections  in Article  V
are renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above  and
relating  to  Use of Goods,  Works and Services) is deleted  in its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified  to read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

... 
The Borrower  shall  retain all records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
bills, receipts  and other documents)  evidencing  expenditures  under the Loan  until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives  to examine  such records."

8. 

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified  to read as  follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

-13-

(c) 

The Borrower  shall  prepare,  or cause to be prepared,  and furnish
... 
to the Bank not later than six months  after the Closing Date, a report of such scope
and  in  such detail  as  the Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on the  execution  of the
Program,  the performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of their respective
obligations  under  the Legal Agreements  and the accomplishment  of the purposes
of the Loan."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified, as necessary,  to reflect the  modifications  set forth above.

The Appendix  is  modified by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the remaining paragraphs accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the purpose of Section  3.01(b)."

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of  the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is modified to  read as follows:

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means any  use to  which the Loan  is  put in  support  of the

"37. 
Program,  other than to finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of  the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted  in its  entirety.

In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end  Fee" is modified by replacing
the reference  to  Section  3.01  with Section 3.01  (a).

In paragraph  67 of the Appendix, the definition  of the term "Loan  Payment" is modified to
read as follows:

"67. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to the Legal  Agreements  or these General  Conditions,  including  (but not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any transaction  fee  for a  Conversion or early termination  of a Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any premium payable  upon the establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar,  and any Unwinding  Amount  payable by  the
Borrower."

In paragraph  72 of the Appendix, the definition of "Payment Date" is modified by deleting
the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after  the  word
"interest".

The defined term "Project" in paragraph  75 of the Appendix is modified to read "Program"
and its definition  is modified to read as follows (and  all references  to "Project"  throughout
these General  Conditions are deemed  to be references  to  "Program"):

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of

"75. 
which the  Loan is made."

9. 

10. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

