OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8612-VN

Loan Agreement

(Third Economic  Management and  Competitiveness  Development  Policy Operation)

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF VIETNAM

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2016

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

-

A.  Z 

Agreement  dated 
, 2016,  entered  into  between  SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC  OF  VIETNAM 
("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of  providing
financing  in  support  of the  Program (as  defined in the  Appendix  to  this Agreement).  The
Bank has decided to  provide this financing  on the basis,  inter alia,  of (a)  the actions  which
the  Borrower has  already taken  under the  Program and which  are described in  Section  I of
Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of  an  adequate
macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank therefore  hereby  agree  as
follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as defined  in the Appendix  to this  Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed  to  them in  the General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to lend to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  fifty  million  Dollars
($150,000,000)  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.08  of this
Agreement,("Loan").

2.02.  The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in  support  of the Program

in accordance  with Section  II  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

2.04 

2.05. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

The Commitment  Charge  payable by the Borrower shall  be equal to one  quarter of
one percent  (0.25%) per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal to the Reference  Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;  provided,
that  upon  a  Conversion  of all or any portion  of the  principal amount  of the  Loan,
the interest  payable by the Borrower during the Conversion  Period on such amount
shall  be determined  in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article  IV of the

-2-

General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment
continues  for a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment Dates  are May  15  and November  15  in each year.

2.07.  The principal amount  of the Loan shall be  repaid in accordance  with provisions  of

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at any time request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the terms  of the Loan  in order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or any portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  to a Fixed Rate, or vice  versa;  or (B) all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread to  a Variable  Rate  based on  a  Fixed Reference  Rate and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable  Rate based on a Fixed Spread;  and (iii) the  setting of
limits on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate applicable  to  all or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar  on the
Variable  Rate or the Reference Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion  requested pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is
accepted  by the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To
this end:

(a) 

the Borrower  and the Bank  shall from time to time, at the request  of either
party,  exchange  views  on 
the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework  and the  progress achieved  in carrying out the  Program;

-3-

(b) 

(c) 

prior to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the  Bank of any situation that
would have the effect  of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or  any action taken  under the  Program, including  any  action specified  in
Section  I of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event of Suspension consists  of the  following, namely,  a situation
has  arisen which  shall  make  it  improbable  that the Program,  or a  significant  part
of it,  will be carried  out.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Condition of Effectiveness  consists  of the following,  namely  that
the  Bank is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved  by  the Borrower  in  carrying  out
the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this

Agreement.

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  the  Governor,  or a  Deputy  Governor,  of State
Bank of Vietnam.

6.02.  The Borrower's Address  is:

State  Bank of Vietnam
49  Ly Thai To
Hanoi,  Vietnam

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

VIETBANK 
Hanoi 

412248 
NHTWVT

(84-4)  3825 0612

5.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Hanoi,  Socialist Republic  of Vietnam, as of the day and year

first above written.

SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

L  Ri bt

Title: 

a  vsYnoy

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

0te 

k 

WQV

WC.-

Name: 

Title: 

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Pro2ram

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

4. 

5. 

The actions  taken by the Borrower under the Program  include the  following:

Macroeconomic  Stability

The Borrower, through  State  Bank of Vietnam,  has  publicly disclosed  through  its
official  website the  level  of non-performing  loans in  commercial  banks  by end of
2015  in  accordance  with Circular 02/2013/TT-NHNN  dated January  21,  2013  on
asset  classification  and provisioning  as  amended  by Circular  09/2014/TT-NHNN
dated March  18,  2014 as evidenced through a letter dated March  22, 2016 provided
by State Bank of Vietnam  to the Bank.

The Borrower,  through the Ministry of Finance, has prepared  an updated medium-
term  debt  management  program  for  the  period  2016-20,  with  strengthened  risk
analysis  based  on  additional  scenarios  and  updated  macroeconomic  assumptions
as evidenced through an official  letter of Ministry of Finance and excerpt of Report
11 1/BTC-NSNN  dated  February  19,  2016.

The Borrower, through  State Treasury,  has  implemented Treasury  Single Account
procedures  in  the  State  Bank  of  Vietnam,  Vietcombank,  and  Agribank  as
evidenced  through a number  of official  letters on  implementation provided by the
Ministry  of Finance  to the Bank.

Transparent, Efficient, and Accountable  Public Sector

The Borrower,  through the  Ministry  of Finance  and  State  Economic  Groups,  has
implemented  divestment  of  eighty  (80)  percent  of  five  high-risk,  non-core
businesses 
in  six  State  Economic  Groups  consistent  with  Instruments  on
Restructuring  of  State  Economic  Groups,  as  evidenced  through  a  report  on
implementation  provided by the Ministry  of Finance  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  its  Government,  has  implemented  Decree  Number
61/2013/ND-CP  dated June  25, 2013  which has  been replaced  by  Decree Number
87/2015/ND-CP  dated October  6,  2015  adopting the audited  reports on the public
dissemination  of the  key  financial performance  of all  State  Economic  Groups,  as
evidenced  through  a  report  on  financial  information  disclosure  provided  by  the
Ministry  of Finance  to the  Bank.

6. 

C. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

A. 

B. 

-6-

The Borrower,  through  its National  Assembly,  has  adopted  the Public Investment
Law  Number  49/2014/QH13  dated  June  18,  2014  to  establish  a  comprehensive
legal  framework to  improve  capital spending  efficiency;  reduce public  investment
fragmentation;  and  align  public  investments  with  national development  plans  and
improve public  disclosure  and transparency.

Business Enabling Environment

The Borrower,  through  its  Government  has  adopted  Resolution  19/NQ-CP  dated
March  12,  2015,  on key duties and solutions to  improve business environment  and
national  competitiveness  in  2015  - 2016  and  enhance  the  Borrower's  business
environment through the  simplification  of tax procedures  for taxpayers.

The  Borrower,  through  its Government,  has  adopted  appropriate  Implementation
Instruments  in accordance  with the Amended  Law  on Procurement.

The Borrower, through its Government, has adopted  Decree Number 60/2015/ND-
CP dated June 26, 2015,  eliminating limitations on foreign  investors'  participation
in public  companies  in  selected areas  of the stock market.

Section H. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance
with the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the Bank
may specify by notice to the  Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan  Amounts.  The Loan  (except  for amounts required  to pay the
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set  out in the  table below:

Allocations 

(1) Single  Withdrawal 
Tranche
(2)  Front-end  Fee 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)
$149,625,000

$375,000
$150,000,000

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions

No  withdrawal  shall be made  of the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank
is satisfied  (a)  with the Program  being  carried  out by the Borrower,  and  (b)  with
the  adequacy of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework.

D. 

Deposits  of Loan Amounts.  Except as the  Bank may otherwise  agree:

-7-

1. 

2. 

3. 

E. 

1. 

2. 

F. 

the  Borrower  shall  open,  prior  to  presenting  to  the  Bank  the  first  request  for
withdrawal  from the  Loan  Accounts,  and  thereafter maintain  a deposit  account  in
Dollar ("Foreign Currency Deposit Account")  on terms and conditions satisfactory
to  the Bank.  All  withdrawals  from  the Loan Accounts  shall  be deposited  by the
Bank into the Foreign  Currency  Deposit Account;

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount in Vietnamese  Dong
is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner
acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

the  Borrower,  within  forty-five  (45)  days  after  disbursement,  through  the  State
Bank  of Vietnam,  shall  report  to  the  Bank:  (i) the  exact  sum  received  into  the
Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account  which  forms  part  of the  Country's  official
foreign  exchange  reserves;  (ii)  the  details  of the Treasury  account  to  which the
Vietnamese  dong equivalent of the Credit proceeds will be credited;  (iii) the record
that  an  equivalent  amount  has  been  accounted  for  in  the  country's  budget
management  systems;  and  (iv) the  statement  of receipts  and disbursement  of the
Foreign currency  Deposit Account.

Audit.  Upon the  Bank's request, the Borrower shall:

have  the  Foreign  Currency  Deposit  Account  audited  by  independent  auditors
acceptable  to the Bank, in accordance  with consistently  applied auditing standards
acceptable  to the Bank;  and

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but  in  any  case  not  later  than  four  (4)
months  after the date  of the  Bank's  request  for such  audit,  a  certified  copy of the
report  of such audit,  of such scope and in  such detail  as the Bank  shall reasonably
request.

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower undertakes that the proceeds  of the Loan
shall  not be used to finance Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank determines at  any
time  that  an  amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a payment  for  an  Excluded
Expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly  upon  notice from  the  Bank, refund  an
amount  equal  to  the  amount  of such payment  to the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to
the Bank upon  such request  shall  be cancelled.

G. 

Closing  Date.  The Closing Date is April 30,  2017.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment  Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment  Date shall be determined by
the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date; by (b)  the Installment  Share  for each Principal  Payment Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred  to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,  to  which a Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

On  each May  15  and November  15
Beginning  May 
November  15,  2044
On May  15,  2045 

15,  2026 

through 

2.56%

2.72%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have not been fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds  of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1 of  this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1 of this
Schedule for  said Principal  Payment  Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to  which a Currency
Conversion applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn  within two  calendar months prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the

-9-

principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date  of withdrawal  and shall  be repayable  on each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal  Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after
the  adoption of such billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable on any Principal  Payment Date occurring during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination immediately  prior to the  Conversion by either:  (i)  the  exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank under  the Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

- 10  -

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

"Amended  Law  on  Procurement"  means 
the  Borrower's  Law  Number
43/2013/QH13,  dated  November  26,  2013,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.C.8  of
Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

"Circular  02"  means  the  Borrower's  Circular  Number  02/2013/TT-NHNN  dated
January  21,  2013  issued  by  State  Bank  of Vietnam  on  asset  classification,  risk
provisioning and utilization of provisioning  by credit institutions  and foreign bank
branches,  as  amended  by Circular  Number  09/2014/TT-NHNN  dated  March  18,
2014  issued by  State Bank  of Vietnam,  and referred  to  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.

3. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  has
financed  or  agreed to  finance,  or which  the Bank has  financed  or  agreed
to finance under another credit,  grant  or loan;

for goods  included  in the  following groups  or sub-groups  of the  Standard
International  Trade Classification,  Revision 3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published by
the  United Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)
(the  SITC),  or  any successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions
to  the SITC,  as  designated  by the Bank by notice to the  Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

Sub-group 

718.7 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-
manufactured,  tobacco
refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether  or not
containing  tobacco
substitutes)
Radioactive  and
associated  materials
Pearls,  precious  and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked
Nuclear  reactors,  and
parts thereof;  fuel
elements  (cartridges),

- 11 -

728.43 

897.3 

728 

897 

971 

non-irradiated,  for
nuclear reactors
Tobacco processing
machinery
Jewelry  of gold, silver or
platinum  group metals
(except  watches and
watch cases)  and
goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares
(including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding  gold ores and
concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for  environmentally  hazardous  goods, the  manufacture,  use  or import  of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
agreements  to  which the Borrower is a party;

on account  of any payment  prohibited by a  decision of the United Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the  United
Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,
collusive  or coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by representatives  of the
Borrower  or other  recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action
satisfactory  to the Bank to address  such practices  when they occur.

"Foreign  Currency  Deposit Account"  means  the  account referred  to  in paragraph
I of Section  II.D  of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"Implementation  Instruments"  means  Decree  63/2014/ND-CP  dated  June  26,
2014  detailing  the  implementation  of  a  number  of  provisions  under  Law  on
Procurement  on  bidders  selection,  Decree  15/2015/ND-CP  dated  February  14,
2015  on  Public  Private  Partnership  Investment  Form,  dated  February  14,  2015,
Decree  30/2015/ND-CP  dated  March  17,  2015  detailing  the  implementation  of a
number  of provisions  under Law  on Procurement  on Investor  Selection,  Circular

4. 

5. 

6. 

- 12  -

01/2015/TT-BKHDT  dated  February  14  2015  detailing  the  preparation  of
Requests  for expression  of interest,  Bidding documents,  Dossiers  of requirements
for  consultancy  service,  Circular  03/2015/TT-BKHDT  dated  May  6,  2015
detailing  the  preparation  of  construction  and  installation  bidding  documents,
Circular  05/2015/TT-BKHDT  dated  June  16,  2015  detailing  the  preparation  of
bidding documents for procurement of goods, Joint Circular 07/2015/TT-BKHDT-
BTC  dated  September  8,  2015  detailing  the  online  supply  and  posting  of
procurement  information  and  online  contractor  selection,  Circular  10/2015/TT-
BKHDT  dated October 26,  2015  detailing  contractor selection planning,  Circular
11/2015/TT-BKHDT  dated  October  27  detailing the  establishment  of request  for
proposals  in  case  of direct  contracting  and  competitive  offering,  2015,  Circular
19/2015/TT-BKHDT  dated  November  27,  2015  detailing  the  establishment  of
assessment  report  during  contractor  selection  process,  Circular  23/2015/TT-
BKHDT dated  December 21,  2015  detailing the establishment of evaluation report
of bidding  documents,  and  Circular  02/2016/T-BKHDT  dated  March  1, 2016
guiding  the  preliminary  selection  of projects,  making,  appraisal  and  approval  of
project  proposals  and  feasibility  report  of public  private  partnership  investment
projects;  as referred  to  in Section  I. C.8 of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

"Instruments  on  Restructuring  of  State  Economic  Groups"  means  Decision
Number  320/QD-TTg  dated  February  8, 2013,  Decision  Number  1782/QD-TTg
dated November 23,  2012, Decision Number 314/QD-TTg  dated February 7, 2013,
Decision Number  38/QD-TTg  dated  January  5,  2013,  Decision  Number 753/QD-
TTg dated  May  17,  2013,  Decision  Number  2097/QD-TTg  dated  December  28,
2012, and  Decision Number 46/QD-TTg  dated January 5, 2013.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or
referred to in the letter dated April 6,  2016 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring
the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and  requesting
assistance  from the  Bank in support  of the  Program during its  execution.

"Public  Investment  Law"  means  the  Borrower's  Law  Number  49/2014/QH13
dated June  18,  2014.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in the  table set  forth  in  Part B  of
Section II  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

"State  Bank  of Vietnam"  means  the  Borrower's  central  bank,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"State  Economic  Groups"  means  collectively  Vietnam  National  Textile  and
Garment  Corporation  (VINATEX),  Vietnam  Rubber  Group  (VINARUBBER),
Vietnam  National  Chemical  Group  (VINACHEM),  Vietnam  Oil  and Gas  Group

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

- 13  -

(PETROVIETNAM),  Vietnam  Military  Telecommunications  Group (VIETTEL),
Vietnam  National  Coal-Mineral 
Industries  Holding  Corporation  Limited
(VINACOMIN),  Vietnam  Electricity 
and  Vietnam  Posts  and
Telecommunications  Group (VNPT).

(EVN), 

"Vietcombank"  means  the  Joint  Stock  Commercial  Bank  for  Foreign  Trade  of
Vietnam, a joint  stock commercial  bank  established  and operating  under the  laws
of the  Borrower,  or any successor thereto.

"Agribank"  means  the Vietnam  Bank  for Agriculture  and Rural  Development,  a
state-owned  commercial  bank,  established  and  operating  under  the  laws  of the
Borrower,  or any successor thereto.

13. 

14. 

15. 

"Vietnamese  Dong" means  the  lawful currency of the Borrower.

Section II.  Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby modified  as follows:

1. 

In  the  Table of  Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank a  front-end  fee on  the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate  specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end Fee").

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from a  date sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement  to the respective dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each Payment
Date."

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

- 14  -

"19. 
Loan  Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

