OFFICIAL
80CUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  8627-AZ

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for IDP Living Standards  and Livelihood  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF AZERBAIJAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

',2016

LOAN  NUMBER  8627-AZ

LOAN  AGREEMENT

L2,2016, 

Agreement  dated 
AZERBAIJAN 

between  REPUBLIC
OF 
and 
FOR
BANK 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of  providing
additional  financing  for  activities  related  to  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1 to  this
Agreement  ("Project").  The  Borrower  and the  Bank hereby agree as  follows:

INTERNATIONAL 

("Borrower") 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as  defined  in the  Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General Conditions  or  in the  Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of sixty  six  million  seven  hundred
thousand  United  States  dollars  (US$66,700,000),  as  such  amount  may  be
converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with
the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist in  financing
the Project.

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw the  proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with  Section

IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be equal to  one quarter  of

one  percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal to the Reference  Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided,
that  upon  a Conversion  of all or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
the interest  payable by the Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period on such amount
shall  be determined  in  accordance  with the  relevant provisions of Article IV  of the
General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment
continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower

-2-

shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates are  May  15  and November  15  in each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based on a  Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting  of
limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or any
portion of the principal amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to  paragraph (a) of this Section that  is
accepted  by the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV of the  General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be
paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from the  Loan Account and  pay to  itself the  amounts
required to  pay any  premium payable  in accordance  with Section  4.05 (c)
of the General  Conditions  up to the amount  allocated from time to time for
the  purpose  in the table  in Section IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its commitment  to the objective  of the Project.  To this end,
the Borrower  shall cause the Project to  be carried out by the  Project Implementing

-3-

Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions
and  the Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project  is  carried out in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

3.03.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  the

Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(b) 

maintain,  until  the  completion  of the  Project,  a Project  Account  in  Manat
on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the Bank,  to finance  its  counterpart
contribution  to the  expenditures  of the  Project;

deposit  into  the  Project  Account  the  amounts  required  to  cover  the
Borrower's  counterpart  contributions  as  determined  by  the  Borrower  and
the  Bank;  and

ensure  that  the  funds  deposited  into  the  Project  Account  shall  be  used
exclusively  to  finance  the  Borrower's  counterpart  contributions  to  the
Project.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability
of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the
Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

the  Project  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Bank  and the
Project  Implementing  Entity;

the Subsidiary  Agreement has been amended  in a manner acceptable  to the
Bank;  and

the  Operational  Manual  has  been  updated  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

-4-

5.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is its  Minister  of Finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's Address  is:

Ministry of Finance
135  Samed  Vurgun Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic  of Azerbaijan

Telex: 
142116 BNKSL 

Facsimile:
(944-12)  404-47-20
(944-12)  404-47-21

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H  Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 
248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Baku,  Republic  of Azerbaijan,  as  of the  day and  year first above  written.

-5-

REPUBLIC  OF AZERBAIJAN

By:

By:

Authorized  Represytative

Name:

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Auth 

ized  Representative

Name:  S 

-

Title:

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  living  conditions  and  increase  the

economic  self-reliance  of targeted  internally displaced  persons (IDP).

The Project  consist of the following parts:

A. 

Micro-Projects

Provision of works,  goods and  services for the following activities,  including,  inter
alia: (1)  community  mobilization  and  outreach  for  micro-project  proposal  development;
(2)  repair or rehabilitation  of basic  infrastructure  (e.g. water  supply,  power supply,  access
roads,  drainage  systems);  and  (3)  repair  or  rehabilitation  of social  infrastructure,  such  as
schools  and community  centers.

B. 

Housing  Renovation  and  Social  and  Economic  Infrastructure  for  IDP
Settlements

1. 
Provision  of works,  goods  and  services  for the  rehabilitation  and  full scale  repair
of IDP  collective  accommodation  centers  including  improvement  of common  space  areas
(bathrooms,  corridors,  kitchens,  etc.),  enhancement  of  structural  features  (such  as
sewerage,  roofing  and  water  systems)  as  well  as  improvement  of conditions  in  individual
apartments  such  as  replacement  of windows,  doors,  and electricity  to  improve  the overall
living conditions  including  safety  and  efficiency.

2. 
Provision  of works,  goods  and  services  for  the  construction  and/or rehabilitation
of physical  infrastructure  in  Selected  IDP  New  Settlements,  including,  inter alia: (a)  the
assessment of social and economic  infrastructure needs;  (b)  the  carrying out of community
mobilization  and  outreach activities  for prioritization  of infrastructure  investments;  (c) the
reparation, rehabilitation  and/or construction of economic  infrastructure  (e.g. water supply,
power  supply,  access  roads,  drainage  systems);  and  (d)  the  reparation  or rehabilitation  of
social  infrastructure  (e.g.  schools,  community  centers).

Support  for  the  operation  and  maintenance  of investments  financed  under  Part  B
3. 
of  the  Project,  including  through  the  provision  of technical  assistance  and  training  to
strengthen  operation  and maintenance  capacity  of IDP  infrastructure.

C. 

Livelihood  Support

Provision  of  vocational  training  and  financial  and  technical  support  for  small

1. 
business  development  to  IDP youth.

-7-

2. 
Provision  of:  (a)  technical  support  and  mobilization  in  selected  communities
leading  to  the  establishment  of about  200  self-help  groups  and  formulation  by  such  self-
help  groups  of proposals for  income  generating  activities;  and  (b)  Small  Grants  to eligible
self-help  groups  and  individual  group  members  with  approved  proposals  for  income
generating  activities  to  set  up  small  businesses and  micro-enterprises.

3. 
eligible  credit unions.

Financing of Micro-credits  for IDPs and  host community of IDP residents  through

4. 
Piloting of integrative  economic  support  in  Selected  IDP New Settlements through
the carrying  out of activities  described  under paragraphs  I to  3 of this Part  C of the Project.

D. 

Project Management,  Implementation  Support and Capacity Building

Provision of goods, consultants'  services and Training  for the proper management,
implementation,  supervision  and  monitoring and  evaluation  of the  Project  including,  inter
alia: (a)  recruitment  of  regional  staff with  skills  on  infrastructure,  citizen  engagement,
monitoring  and  evaluation,  safeguards,  financial  management  and  procurement;  (b)
capacity  building  of the Project  Implementing  Entity  and  associated  stakeholders  through
adequate  training  for  technical  supervision;  (c)  impact  evaluation  by  an  external  firm  to
improve  information  on Project  results;  (d)  annual  financial  audit of the Project  accounts;
and (e)  public  communications  activities.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

All the Borrower's obligations referred  to in  Section I of Schedule 2 to the Original
Loan Agreement  shall apply  to  the execution  of the  Project.

Without  limitations upon the  provisions of paragraph  1 of this Section,  prior to the
carrying  out  of any  activities  to  be  financed  with  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the
Borrower  shall  and  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity to:  (a)  amend the
Subsidiary  Agreement,  and  (b)  update  the Operational  Manual,  all for purposes  of
this Loan and  in  a  manner satisfactory  to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall ensure that  Part B.2 of the Project  is carried  out in accordance
with the  provisions  of the RPF.

Section  H. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and on the  basis of the indicators  acceptable  to the Bank.  Each Project
Report  shall cover the  period of one  calendar  quarter, and  shall be furnished  to the
Bank not later  than  one month  after the end  of the  period  covered by  such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank not  later than  forty-five  (45)
days  after the  end  of each calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports for
the Project  covering  the quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period of one fiscal year of the  Borrower. The
audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
not later than  six (6)  months  after the end  of such  period.

-9-

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the  Project  and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below  in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Sections II,  III,  IV  and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as  the case  may  be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which may be used  for goods, works  and non-
consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify the  circumstances  under
which  such  methods  may be  used:

Procurement Method

National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  following  additional

(a) 
provisions:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

there  shall  be no eligibility  restrictions  based  on nationality  of
bidder;
pre-qualification  may  be  used  for  simple  works  procurement
and  shall be conducted  for  large works  contracts;
entities 
the  State  or  a  State  official  owns  a
shareholding  of whatever  size  shall not be  invited  to participate

in  which 

-10-

Procurement Method

in tenders for the Government unless they are  and can be shown
to  be  legally  and  financially  autonomous  and  they  operate
under commercial  law;
no  national  preferences  may  be  applied  on  the  basis  of the
origin  of products  or labor;
joint  venture  partners  shall  be jointly  and  severally  liable  for
their obligations;
no  "participation  fee"  shall  be  required  of  bidders  for  the
purchase  of  bidding  documents.  The  only  charge  shall  be
equivalent  to  the  cost  of  producing  (copying)  the  bidding
documents;
in  the  evaluation  of bids,  bids  may  not  be  rejected  where they
differ  substantially  from the  estimated  prices  calculated  by the
procuring  entity,  except  where  the  bid  prices  exceed  the
available  budget;
rebidding  shall  not be carried out without prior approval  of the
Bank;
works  contracts  of more  than  eighteen  (18)  months'  duration
shall  include  appropriate  price  adjustment provisions;
prior  approval  of  the  Bank  shall  be  required 
modification 
implementation;  and
standard  bidding  documents  approved  by  the  Bank  shall  be
used.

for  any
in  the  contract  scope  and  conditions  during

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

(b) 

Shopping

Direct Contracting

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Well-established  Private  Sector Procurement  Methods or Commercial
Practices,  as  per  paragraph  3.13  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  which
have been found acceptable  to the Bank, as  specified  in the Operational
Manual

Procedures  set forth in paragraphs  3.19  of the Procurement  Guidelines
for  Community  Participation  in  Procurement  for  goods,  works  and
non-consulting  services  under  Part  C of the  Project,  as  specified  in the
Operational  Manual

-11-

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify  the circumstances  under  which  such  methods  may be  used:

Procurement Method

Selection  Under a  Fixed  Budget

Least-cost  Selection

Selection  Based on Consultants'  Qualifications

Single  Source  Selection

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

Procedures  set forth in paragraphs  5.1  through  5.6  of the  Consultant Guidelines
for  the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or Commercial  Practices
as  per  paragraph  3.13  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  which  have  been  found
acceptable  to the  Bank,  as  specified  in the  Operational  Manual
Quality-based  Selection

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those  contracts which  shall  be  subject to  the Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall be  subject to  Post Review by  the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section,  and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised
from  time to time  by the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set forth  in  the table  in
paragraph  2 below.

-12-

2. 

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible Expenditures  in  each Category.

Category 

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(Net  of VAT)

66,533,250 

100%

(1) Goods, works,  non- 
consulting services,
and  consultant
services  (including
audits),  Small  Grants,
Micro-Credits,
Training  and
Operating Costs  for
the  Project 
Part  B.1  of the  Project)
(2)  Front-end  Fee 

(excluding

166,750 

0 

Amount payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount due  pursuant to
Section  2.08(c) of this
Agreement

(3) Interest  Rate Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

66,700,000

B. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

1 .
made 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
for  payments made  prior to the  date of this Agreement.

2. 

The  Closing Date is December  31,  2020.

-13-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn as  of the first Principal  Payment  Date, the principal amount  of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower on each  Principal  Payment Date shall  be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date;  by (b)  the Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule, to  which  a Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each  May  15  and November  15

Beginning November  15,  2021 
through  November  15,  2032

On May  15,  2033 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

4,17%

4,09%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds  of the  Loan have been withdrawn as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of  this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined by the  Bank by multiplying the amount
of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

-14-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn within  two  calendar  months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective  Principal Payment Date, the  provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no  longer apply to  any withdrawals made after
the adoption  of such  billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any Principal Payment  Date occurring during  the Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to the Conversion  by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines 
in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate  component of the Screen  Rate.

-15-

SCHEDULE  4

Amendment  to the  Original Loan Agreement

The  Borrower  and  Bank hereby  agree  to  amend  the  Original  Loan  Agreement  as
follows:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Schedule  1  is  hereby  replaced  in  its  entirety  by  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement.

The description  of Category (1)  in  the table  in  Section IV.A.2  to  Schedule
2  is  hereby  replaced  in  its  entirety to  read as  follows:

"(1)  Goods,  works,  non-consulting  services,  and  consultants'
services  for the  Project  (excluding  Part  B.2,  B.3  and  C.4  of the
Project)"

The Project  closing  date  is  extended  until  December  31,  2016.

The  following  definition  is  hereby  added  to  Section I  of the  Appendix  to
read  as  follows:

""Additional  Financing  Agreement"  means 
the  agreement
between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  for  purposes  of  providing
additional  financing  for the Project."

(e) 

The following definitions  in Section  I of the Appendix are hereby amended
to  read  as  follows:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

""Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and
Employment  of Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits
and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011
(revised  July 2014)."

the  Environmental  Management  Plan
""EMPF"  means 
Framework,  dated June  23,  2011,  and updated on January  5,  2016
setting  forth  the  framework  of  procedures  and  measures  to
mitigate any adverse  impacts  to the environment  and incorporated
into the  Operational  Manual."

for
""General  Conditions"  means 
Reconstruction  and Development  General  Conditions for Loans",
dated  March  12,  2012, with the  modifications  set forth  in Section
II  of this Appendix."

the  "International  Bank 

-16-

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

""Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement
of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services under  IBRD Loans
and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated
January 2011  (revised  July  2014)."

""Small  Grants"  means  grants  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  by
the  Project  Implementing  Entity, out of the proceeds  of the  Loan,
to  finance  eligible  income  generating  activities  under Part  C.2  (b)
and C.4 of the Project  in accordance  with the Project's Operational
Manual."

""Sub-project"  means  a  sub-project  for  starting  or  scaling-up  of
small  business  to  be  carried  out by  Beneficiaries  under  Part  C.3
and  C.4  of the  Project,  eligible  for  financing  under a  Sub-loan  in
accordance  with the  procedures  and  eligibility  criteria  referred  to
in  Section  I.A.7  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement  as  set
forth  in  the  Operations  Manual;  and  the  term  "Sub-projects"
means,  collectively,  all  such  Sub-projects."

""Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in
Section I.B  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as  amended  pursuant
to  Section  1.2  (a)  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Additional  Financing
Agreement,  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing
Entity."

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants", dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Beneficiaries"  means  an  eligible  individual  IDP  which  has  met  the  eligibility
criteria  specified  in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  to  which  or  for  whose  benefit
a  Micro-credit  is  made  or  proposed  to  be  made;  and  the  term  "Beneficiaries"
means,  collectively,  all  such Beneficiaries.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the  table in  Section  IV of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"EMPF"  means  the Environmental  Management  Plan Framework,  dated  June  23,
2011,  and  updated  on January  5,  2016  setting  forth  the framework  of procedures
and  measures to mitigate any adverse  impacts to the environment  and incorporated
into the Operational  Manual.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in  Section II  of this Appendix.

"Manat"  means the currency  of the  Borrower.

"Micro-credit"  means  a micro-credit  made or proposed  to  be made  by the  eligible
credit  unions  to  Beneficiaries  for the  purpose  of financing  expenditures  incurred
for goods, works  and services  for carrying out a  Sub-project; and  the term  "Micro-
credits"  means, collectively,  all  such  Micro-credits.

"Operating  Costs"  means  incremental  operating  and  maintenance  costs  incurred
by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  on  account  of  management  of  Project
implementation  for  communications,  utilities  including  electricity,  bank  charges,
printing  and  publications,  office  rent  maintenance,  repair  and  supplies,  office
security  systems,  vehicle  operation,  fuel  and  maintenance,  salaries  of the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  staff employed  for  the  purpose  of the  Project,  excluding
those  who  are  civil  servants,  eligible  social  charges,  transportation  and  field  trip
expenses,  insurance  for office equipment  and vehicle,  all for the  purpose of Project
management, as  such other  expenditures  as  may  be agreed  upon  by the  Bank.

-18-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing
Entity, setting  forth the  procedures  for implementation  of the  Project,  as  the same
may  be  amended  from  time to  time  with the  approval  of the Bank,  and  such term
includes  any  schedules  to the  Operational  Manual.

"Original  Loan Agreement"  means the  loan  agreement between  the Borrower  and
the Bank for the "IDP Living Standards and  Livelihoods Project", dated November
16,  2011,  as  amended  to the date  of this Agreement  (Loan No  8096-AZ).

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the Borrower's  procurement  plan for the Project, dated
April 6,  2016  and referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from
time to time  in accordance  with the  provisions of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Account"  means the  project  account  used  for the  Borrower's  counterpart
financing  for the  Project, referred  to  in  Section  3.03  of this Agreement.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the Republic  of Azerbaijan  Social  Fund  for
Development  of IDP,  an  autonomous  public  agency  of the  Borrower,  established
pursuant to  its  Charter,  or any  other  successor thereto.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's Legislation"  means  the Charter of the  SFDI, dated
December  6,  1999,  as amended  to the date of this Agreement.

"RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  dated  December
2015  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  for the carrying  out of resettlement  activities  under
the  Project, as  such  Framework  may  be amended  from time  to time  with the  prior
approval  of the  Bank.

"Selected  IDP New Settlement"  means  the  settlements  built by the  Borrower with
the  purpose  of  improving  living  conditions  of  IDPs  and  relocating  them  form
temporary  camps,  selected  in accordance  with the criteria  and procedures  set forth
in the  Operational  Manual  to  benefit from  the  Project.

"Small  Grants"  means  grants  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan,  to  finance  eligible  income
generating  activities  under  Part C.2  (b)  and  C.4  of the  Project  in accordance  with
the  Project's Operational  Manual.

20. 

"Sub-loan"  a  loan  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  by  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  to  eligible  credit unions  for  the  purpose  of on-lending to  Beneficiaries  for

-19-

21. 

25. 

26. 

financing  the expenditures  incurred  for goods,  works and  services  for carrying  out
a  Sub-project;  and the term  "Sub-loans"  means,  collectively,  all such  Sub-loans.

"Sub-project"  means  a  sub-project  for starting  or  scaling-up  of small  business  to
be  carried  out  by  Beneficiaries  under  Part  C.3  and  C.4 of the  Project, eligible  for
financing  under  a  Sub-loan  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  eligibility
criteria  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.7  of the  Schedule to the  Project Agreement  as set
forth  in  the  Operations  Manual;  and the  term  "Sub-projects"  means,  collectively,
all such  Sub-projects.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of
Schedule 2 to  the Original  Loan Agreement.

"Training"  means  expenses  incurred  in  connection  with  carrying  out  training
activities  under  the Project, including  course fees,  the travel  costs and  per diem for
local  trainees  and  trainers,  study  tours  and  workshops,  rental  of  facilities  and
equipment  and training  material  and related  supplies.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are hereby  modified as  follows:

1 .

In  the Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers  are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
amount at the rate  specified  in the  Loan Agreement (the  "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance  at the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment Charge  shall accrue from
a  date  sixty  days  after the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in  arrears on each  Payment Date."

3. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph 2  above.

-20-

4. 

5. 

6. 

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

"19. 
in the  Loan Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified  to  read  as  follows:

"68. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by the  Loan  Parties
to the  Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including  (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge,  interest at the Default
Interest  Rate  (if any),  any  prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a
Conversion  or  early  termination  of  a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread
Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any  Unwinding  Amount
payable  by  the Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition of "Payment  Date"  is  modified by  deleting the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the  words "and  Commitment Charge  are"  after the word  "interest".

