I 

I 
I i 

.il ·~ 

I 

~ 

i r 
:I 

) 

! I 

i 
t 

~ I 

I 

OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 

LOAN NUMBER 8616-CN 

Loan Agreement 

(BuDding a Modem Fiscal System Technical Assistance Project) 

PE()PLE'S REPUBUC OF CHINA 

between 

and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Dated  M~ ~I 

,2016 

LOAN NUMBER 8616-CN 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

Agreement  dated  ~~I·  , . 2016,  between  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF 
~TIONAL BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

CIDNA  ( .. Borrower'')  and 
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank'').  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

. 

. 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDmONS; DEFINITIONS 

1.01.  The General  Conditio~ (as  defined  in the  Appendix  to this  Agreement)  constitute  an 
integral  part of this Agreement; provided,  however,  that each reference in the General 
Conditions to the Project  Implementing  Entity shall  be deemed to  be a  reference to a 
Subproject  Implementing  Agency;  and  provided  further,  that  each  reference  in  the 
General Conditions to the Project Agreement shall be deemed to be inapplicable. 

I .02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings  ascribed  to  them in  the  General  Conditions  or in the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE ll -LOAN 

2.0 1.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty two  million Dollars ($22,000,000),  as such 
amount  may  be  converted  from  time· to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08  of this Agreement ( .. Loan"),  to  assist in 
financing the project descriPed in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ( .. Project''). 

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

2.04.  The Commitment Charge. payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.2S%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount  shall  be determined in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions. 
·  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  if any amount  of the Withdrawn Loan Bahince remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a  period of thirty days,  then the 
interest payable by the Borrowet shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(e) ofthe General Conditions .. 

2.06. 

_The Payment Dates are April IS and October IS in each year. 

-2-

2.07.  The principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be repaid  in accordance  with  the·amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan. in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a  change of 
the Loan  Currency of all  or any  portion of the principal  amount  of the Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Gurrency;  (ii)  a  change  of the 
interest rate basis applicable to:  (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding  from  a  Variable Rate to a  Fixed Rate,  or 
vice  versa;  or  (B) !fall  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan 
withdrawn and outstaDding from a  Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and 
the Variable Spread"to1l Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the 
Variable  Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the Loan 
withdrawn aiJ.d outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a 
Variable  Rate  bas~ on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on the 
Variable  Rate  or .the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of the 
·principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference 
-Rate. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  {a)  of this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conveision",  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  sball  be effected in accordance with the  provisions  of 
Article N  of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested thirt the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan  Account  and  pay to  itself the ·amounts  required  to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05  (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section N  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit {as 
said terms are defined in sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and (b){iii)  of this  Section), the 
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a  surcharge at the rate of one half of one percent 
(0.5%) per annum of the Allocated Excess Exposure Amount {as defined in sub 
paragraph (b )(i) of this Section) for each said day ("Exposure Surcharge',. The 
Exposure Surcharge  (if any)  sball be payable semi-annually in arrears  on each 
Payment Date. 

(b) 

For purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have the meanings  set  forth 
below: 

(i) 

"Allocated Excess Exposure Amount" means for each day during which 
the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure Limit, the product of: 
(A)  the total  amount  of said excess;  and (B)  the ratio  of all {or,  if the 
Bank so determines, a portion) of the Loan to the aggregate amount of all 

(b) 

(c) 

2.09. 

(a) 

-3-

(or  the  equivalent  portions)  of the  loans  made  by  the  Bank  to  the 
Borrower and  to  other borrowers  guaranteed  by the  Borrower that  are 
also  subject  to  an  exposure  surcharge,  as  said  excess  and  ratio  are 
reasonably determined from time to time by the Bank. 

(ii) 

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the  Bank's 
financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded, would subject the 
Loan to the Exposure Surcharge, as determined from time to time by the 
Bank. 
~ 

. 

(iii) 

"Total ~e" means  for  any given  day,  the  Bank's total  financial 
exposuife to the Borrower, as reasonably determined by the Bank. 

ARTICLE :DI-PROJECT 

3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower  sba1.l  carry  out  the  Project  through  MOF  and  the  Subproject  lmplem~nting 
Agencies in accordance with the provisions of Article V of~ General Conditions. 

. 

. 

3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01  ofthis Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower and  the:  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the 
. Implementation  Agre~ent has  been  duly  executed  on behalf of MOF  and  the  CDM 
C~er. 

· 

4.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 

ARTICLE V'- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower's Representative is its Minister ofFinance. 

5.02.  Tiie Borrower~s Address is: 

Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People's Republic o(China 

· 

Facsimile: 86-10-6855-2740 

5.03..  The Bank's Address is: 

-4-

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H  Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
641i5~CI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CIDNA 

Name: ---'8,~~-'----'/-IP-+-f.;;_~-=;..:._---

Title: 

Co~lr7 £>,~-h...>  ~~ 

-5-

SCHEDULEl 

Project Description 

The objective of the Project is.  to inform the design and implementation of the central 
government's fiscal reform program and to improve the government's capacity in public financial 
management. 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

Part A 

Key Elements Y,r China's Public Finance System 

1. 

2. 

Carrying out of Subprojects  consisting of,  inter alia,  strategic plans,  sectoral research, 
technical  studies,  implementation  rep~, staff exchangeS,  training and workshops,  all 
relating to informing policy formulation and implementation for the strengthening of the 
Borrower's public finance system. 

Provision  of  support  to  the  PMO,  SIAs  and  the  CDM  Center  to  enhance  their 
management  capacity  through  training,  and  the  provision  of  consulting  services,· 
including :Project management support and monitoring and evaluation. 

Part B 

Fiscal Policy and Sustainable Development 

Carrying out of Subprojects  consisting of,  inter alia,  strategic plans,  sectoral research, 
technical  studies,  training and workshops,  and  development  of analytical  capacity and 
tools, all relating to increasing the Bo~wer' s overall capacity to make fiscal policy more 
effective and analyze linkages between economic growth and fiscal policy. 

-6-

SCBEDULEl 

Project Execution 

Section I. 

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 

Operations Manual 

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The Borrower; through the PMO, shall carry out the Project, and shall cause the SIAs to 
carry  out  the  Subprojects,  in accordance  with  tl,.e  Operations  Manual  in  a  timely  and 
efficient manner satisfactory !Jto  the Bank.  The Borrower shall  not  amend,  suspend,  or 
waive  said  Operations Manu81  or any provision  or schedule thereo(,  without  the prior 
written concurrence of tlie Ba:ilk.• In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of 
the  Operations  Manual  and those  of this  Agreement,  the provisions  of this  Agreement 
shall preVail. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The Borrower, through MOF, shall maintain the PMO throughout the implementation of 
the Project and assign qualified staff in adequate. numbers,  funds  and other resources as 
shall  be  necessary  to  enable  the  PMO  to  provide  overall  coordination,  management, 
monitoring and reporting,  and implementation of the Project, undertake the review  and 
selection  of  proposed  · Subprojects,  and  monitor,  evaluate  and  supervise 
the 
implementation ·or Subprojects by SIAs. 

To  assist  the  PMO  with  the  day-to-day  implementation  of  the  Project  (including 
procurement,  financial  inanagement,  accounting,  contract management,  monitoring and 
reporting), the Borrower, through MOF,  shall enter into an agreement ("Implementation 
Agreement") with the CDM Center, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bait.k:, 
which shall include those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule. 

The  Borrower,  through  MOF,  shall  exercise  its  rights·  under  the  'Implementation 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
assign.  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Implementation  Agreement  or  any  provision 
thereof. 

In  the  case  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  provisions  of  the  Implementation 
Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 

The Borrower, through the PMO, shall cause each SIA to appoint and maintain until the 
completion of the relevant Subproject or Subprojects, a Subproject Management Team at 
the  SIA level,  headed by a  qualified officer and assigned  staff in adequate numbers to 
enable the SIA to design proposals for and implement its respective Stibproject(s). 

C. 

L 

2. 

3. 

4. 

A. 

L 

2. 

Subprojeds 

-7-

All  Subprojects  shall  support  the  overall  development  objective  of the  Project.  ·All 
Subproject proposals shall be duly prepared and submitted to the PMO by SIAs, selected 
and approved by the PMO, and furnished to the Bank for its no-objection, following the 
eligibility criteria,  procedures  and  teehnical  requirements  set  forth  to  that  effect  in the 
Operations Manual.  The Borrower, through the PMO, shall ensure that no activity under 
any  Subproject  is  commenced until  the proposal  for  such  Subproject has  received  the 
Bank's prior no-objection in accordance with the foregoing requirements. 

To assist in the carry:ini out of Subprojects, the Borrower, through the PMO, shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan·· available to the  SIAs  under arrangements  satisfactory to  the 
Bank. 

.. 

,: 

The ·Borrower,  through the PMO, shaii, and shall cause each SIA to, obtain the Bank's 
prior  no-objection  for  changing  any  of  the  SIA's  Subproject  design  and/or 
implementation  ammgements,  as  applicable.  The  Borrower,  through  the PMO,  shall 
promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would adversely affect the carrying out of 
a  Subproject  and shall  promptly  take action,  satisfactory to  the Bank,  to address  such 
situation. 

The Borrower shall  cause  the PMO artd  each  SIA,. as  applicable,  to  ensure  that  every 
Subproject  to  be  supported  under the  Project  is  carried  out  under  terms  of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and that such termS of reference are consistent with, and pay due 
attention to, the Bank's Safeguards Policies. 

D. 

Anti-Corruption 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried ·out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  · 

Section D. 

Project Monitoring. Reoorting and Evaluation 

Project Reports 

The Borrower shall, through the PMO, monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare  Project· Reports  fu  accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. 
Each  Project  Report  shall  cover· the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be 
:fi.nnished  to  the  Bank not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  ·after  the  end  of the  period 
covered by such report. 

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph A.l above, the Borrower shall, through 
the PMO, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and finnish to the 
Bank no later than June 30, 2019, a consolidated mid-term review report for the Project, 
summarizing the results  of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out from the 
inception  of the  Project,  and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the 
efficient cotDpletion of the Project and to further the objectives thereof. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

-8-

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions ofPart A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end ofeach calendar 
semester,  interim unaudited  fmancial  reports  for  the  Project  covering the  semester,  in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

-

., 

The  Borrower  shall  have~i_its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of Section 5.09 (b)  of the General  Conditions.  Each audit  of the Financial 
Statements  shall cover the '~od of one (I) fiscal  year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.  The Borrower shall make the atidited Financial 
Statements publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

Section m. 

Procurement 

General 

G:oods  and Non-consulting Services.  All goods and non-consulting services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and _with the provi~ions of this Section. 

Consultants'  Services.  All  C<;)nsultants'  services  required  for·the  Project  and.to  be 
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this. Section. 

Def"mitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in Sections n and ill of the Procurement Guid(ilines, 
or Sections n, ill, IV an~ V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

B.  . 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services 

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below, -goods and non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

2. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting Services. 

The following methods, other than International  Competitive Bidding,  may be used for 
procurement  of goods  and non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in the 
Procmement Plan: (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions 
set  forth  in the  box below;  (b)  Direct  Contracting;  (c)  Shopping;  and  (d)  Framework 
Agreement. 

-9-

The procedures  applicable  to  the  procurement  of goods,  works,  and  non-consulting 
services  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  National  Competitive  Bidding 
(''NCB,)  shall  be the open tendering procedures  set forth in the Borrower's Law on 
Tendering  and  Bidding  promulgated  by  its  Order  No.  21  dated  August  30,  1999; 
· provided, however, that such procedures shall be subject to the provisions of Section I, 
Paragraphs 3.3 and. 3.4 of Section m, and Appendix  1 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and the additional provisions in the following.  In tb.e  event of a ·conflict between the 
Borrower's  procedures  and  these  NCB  Procedure  Modifications,  the  latter  shall 
govern. 

(i) 

(ii) 

Eligibility to participate in a  procurement process and to be awarded a  Bank 
financed  C()ntract  shall  be  as  ·defined  under  Section  I  of the  Procurement 
Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder  shall  be  declared 
ineligible for such ooritract for reasons other than those provided in Section I 
of the ProCurement Guidelines.  No restriction: based on nationality of bidders 
and/or  origin  of goods  shall  apply,  and foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to 
participate in NCB without application of restrictive conditions. 

All invitations to prequalify or bid shall be advertised in a national newspaper 
of wide circulation in the Borrower's countrY,  or on a  widely used  website I 
electronic portal with free national and international access acceptable to the 
Bank except for goods or non-consulting services contracts that are estirilated 
to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  or  works  contracts  that  are 
estimated  to  cost  less  than  $2,000,000  each,  which may be  advertised  in a 
provincial  daily newspaper.  Such advertisement  shall  be made in sufficient 
time  for prospective bidders to obtain prequali.flcation or bidding documents 
and prepare and submit their responses.  In any event,  a  minimum of thirty 
. (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of such advertisement (or 
the  date  of availability  of bidding  documents,  whichever  is  later)  and  the 
deadline  for  the  submission  of bids,  and  the  advertisement  and  bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for the submission of bids.  In the case of 
such  advertisement  on a  website I  electronic  portal,  the· notice  shall  remain 
readily accessible nationhlly and internationally until at least the deadline .for 
the  submission  of bids.  Potential  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  inspect  and 
purchase  bidding  documents  at  any  time  prior  to  the . deadline  for  the 
submission of bids. 

(iv) 

(v) 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of  evaluating  the 
qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in  detail  in  the  bidding 
documents. 

Prequalificanon  procedures  and  documents  acceptable  to  the  Bank  shall  be 
used  for· large,  complex  and/or  specialized  works.  ·  Verification  of  the 
information  upon  which  a  bidder  was  prequalified, 
including  current 
commitments, shall be carried out at the time of contract award, along with the 

') 

(iii) 

Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 

- 10-

bidder's capability with respect to personnel and equipment.  All bidders that 
meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-qualification documents shall 
be allowed to bid,  and there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified 
bidders.  Where pre-qualification  is  not  used,  the  qualification of the  bidder 
who  is  recommended  for  award  of  contract  shall ·be  assessed  by  post 
in  the  bidding 
qualification,  applying  the  qualification  criteria  stated 
documents. 

. .. 

(vi) 

Registration shall not be used to assess bidders' qualifications.  A bidder shall 
not be required to register as a  condition for inspecting or purchasing bidding 
documents,  subffiitting  its  bid  or  receiving  contract  award. 
A  bidder 
determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder,  shall  be  given 
reasonable  opporti'.ini~  of registering  (if required)  before  contract  signing 
without any let or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular 
class ofcontractors, and non-classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. 
(vii)  No margins of preference of any sort shall be given to bidders, such as on the 
basis of their location, place of incotporation, 9r affinity with the geographical 
area in which the Project activities will take place. 

(viii)  All  bidders  who  are  awarded  contracts  for  works  and  single-responsibility 
contracts  shall  be  required  to  provide  performance  secmity  in  an  amount 
SUfficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity I Entities, 
as  the case may be,  in case of breach of contract by the contractor,  and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security 
and any other potential damages for such breach. 

(ix) 

Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by mail or in person. 

(x) 

(xi) 

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an opportunity 
to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of 
bid opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening. 

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in the  bidding  documents  and 
in  monetary  terms  or  expressed  in  the  form  of  pass/fail 
quantified 
requirer:D.ents. 

· 

(xii)  No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price exceeds any cost 
estimate  or  falls  outside  any  margin  or  bracket  of prices  or  average  bids 
established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity I Entities,  as 
the case may be.  Rejection of all bids or re-bidding shall not be allowed solely 
because the number of bids is less than three (3),  and rejection of all  bids  or 
rebidding shall.nottake place without the Bank's prior written agreement. 

(xiii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that 
is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources 
and whose bid has been determined:  (A) to be substantially responsive to the 
bidding documents;  and (B) to offer $e lowest evaluated cost.  The winning 
bidder  shall  not  be  required,  as  a  condition  of  awa.r<i._  to  undertake 

- 11-

responsibilities  for  work or to assume other obligations not stipulated  in the 
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.  No 
negotiations shall be permitted except with the Bank's no-objection. 

In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,  each  bidding document  and 
contract shall include provisions stating the Bank's policy to sanction firms or 
individuals found to have engaged in fraud  and corruption as set forth iti the · 
Procurement Guidelines. 

In accordance  with the Procurement GUidelines,  each bidding document and 
contract  shall  include  provisions  stating  the  Bank's  policy  with  respect  to 
inspection ancf audit of accouirts, records  and other documents relating to the 
submission o£bids and contract performance. 

(xiv) 

(xv) 

(xvi)  Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's countri may be permitted .to 
bid or submit a  proposal of goods, works,  or non-consulting services if they 
can establish that they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate 
under  commercial  law;  and  (C) are  not  a  dependent  agency  of the  agency 
conducting the procurement. 

(xvii)  Matters such as subcontracting, joint venture relationships and assignment of 

contract shall be handled in accordance with the bidding documents. 

(xviii)  The results  of bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  bC  published  in  the 
national or provincial press (as provided under paragraph (ii) .above) or official 
gazette or a  free and open-access website and shall identifY:  (A) the name of 
each bidder who submitted a bid; (B) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (C) 
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated price, of each bid that was evaluated; 
(D) the names ofbtdders whose bids were either rejected as non-responsive or 
not meeting qualification criteria,  or not evaluated,  with the reasons therefor; 
and (E) the name of the winning bidder and the final total  Contract price,  as 
well as the duration and summary scope of the contract.  Such publication shall 
be within two  (2)  weeks  of receiving the Bank's  no-objection  to  the award 
recommendation for contracts  subject to the Bank's prior review,  and within 
two  (2)  weeks  of the  Borrower or the  Project  Implementing Entity's  award 
decision  for  contracts  subject  to  the  Bank's  post  review.  The  bidding 
docUm.ents shall disclose the newspaper in which and I or the electronic means 
by which the information on contract award will be published. 

(xix)  The Borrower or the Project Implementing Eritity I  Entities,  as the case may 
be,  shall have in place an effective and independent protest mechanism for 
bidders to protest.  The bidding documents shall provide the professional title 
and address of the official to whom such protests should be sent. 

- 12-

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Coosultants' Services 

Quatity and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants'  services  shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods  of Procurement· of Consultants'  Services.  The following  methods, 
other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of 
consultants' services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan:  (a)  Quality 
based Selection;  (b)  Selectipn Based on the Consultants' Qualifications;  (c) Procedures 
set  forth  in· paragraphs  5.2 ·and  5.3  of the  Consultant. Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of 
Individual  Consultants;  (d):  stngle-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of  Individual 
Consultants; and (e) Single-source Selection of consulting firms. 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's 
Prior Review. 'All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 

General 

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and  as  made  applicable to  this Agreement pursuant  to  such inst:rU.Ctions ),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan ("Category''), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligt.ble 
Expenditures in each Category. 

· 

\ 
I 

.\ 
J 

Category 

Goods, 

consultants' 
non-Consulting 
and 

(1) 
services, 
services, 
Incremental Operating Costs 
(2) Front-end Fee 

Training 

- 13-

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
21,945,000 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
1000/0 

-

55,000 

.. 
.. 

of 

2.03 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
this 
Section 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
Amount  due  pursuant 
Section  2.08 
Agreement 

to 
(c)  of  this 

Interest  Rate  Cap  or 

(3) 
Interest Rate Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

22,000,000 

Withdrawal Conditions; Wrthdrawal Period 

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this ·section, no withdrawal shall be made 
for paylnents made prior to the date of this Agreenu:nt. 

2. 

The Closing Date is July 31, 2021. 

. - 14-

ANNEX 
to SCHEDULE 2 

Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
·Implementation Agreement 

1. 

2. 

4. 

5. 

For the pmposes  of Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2  to this Agreement, the Implementation 
Agreement to be entered into by MOF and the CDM Center .shall reflect, inter alia, the following 
terms and conditions: 

For. the  pmpose  of assisting  the  Borrower  with  the  carrying out  of the  Project,  the · 
Borrower, through MOF, s~.make available to the CDM Center a part of the proceeds 
of the  Loan  received  by ~e ijorrower pursuant  to  Article  II of the Loan:  Agreement, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 

MOF  shall have the right to  suspend or terminate the  right of the CDM  Center to use 
and/or receive the proceeds of the Loan, upon failure by the CDM Center to perform any 
or" its obligations under the Implementation Agreement. 

3. 

The CDM Center shall undertake to: 

(a) 

assist the Borrower,  thro~gb. MOF,  in the carrying out of the Project with due 
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordailce  with  appropriate  management  and 
financial  practices,  and  social  and  environmental  standards  acceptable  to  the 
Bank,  including  the  terms  of  the  Operations  Manual,  the  Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines  apPlicable  to  recipients  of LoaD  proceeds  other than  the Borrower, 
and  to  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities  and  other  resources 
required for this purpose; and 

(b) 

maintain, throughout Project implementation, staff in adequate numbers and with 
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for 
assisting in the implementation of the Project. 

The COM Center shall undertake, and assist the SIAs as applicable, to procure the goods 
and  services  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Section m of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to utilize such goods 
and services exclusively in the carrying out of the Project. 

The CDM Center shall undertake to enable the Bank and the Borrower, through MOF, to 
inspect  such  sites,  relevant  records  and  documents  as  the  Bank  and/or  the  Borrower, 
through MOF, shall deem necessary. 

6. 

The COM Center shall undertake, throughout Project implementation, to: 

(a) 

(b) 

maintain  records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect  its  operations  and  financial 
condition in accordance with sound accounting practices;  · 

have its financial  statements (balance sheets,  statements of income and expenses 
and  related  statements)  for  each  fiscal  year  audited,  in  ~ccordance  with 

- 15-

appropriate  auditing  principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent  auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 

(c) 

furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, through MOF, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than  six  (6)  months  after the end of each fiscal  year of the 
Borrower:  (i)  certified copies  of its  financial  statements  and accounts for  such 
year as so audited;  (ii) an opinion on srich statements by the auditors referred to 
in  paragraph  6  (b)  above,,  in  such  scope  I!;Dd  detail  as  the  Bank  and/or  the 
Borrower, through MOF, shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) all such other 
information concerning said records,  accounts and financial  statements, as well 
as  the  audit  tb,freof,  as  the  Bank  and/or  the  Borrower,  through  MOF,  shall 
reasonably requ~ and 

(d) 

assist the PMO to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with· 
the  performance  indicators  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof. 

~ 16 ~ 

SCBEDULE3 

Amortization Schedule 

1. 

.  The  following  ·table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Oate ("Installment Share'').  If the proceeds of the LOan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount ·of the  Loan  repayable  by the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  dach  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  t!l  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to d~!it any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

15 October 2021 
15 April2022 
15 October 2022 
15 April2023 
15 October 2023 
15 April 2024 
15 October 2024 
15 APril 2025 
15 October 2025 
15 April2026 
15 October 2026 
15 April 2027 
15 October 2027 
15 April2028 
15 October 2028 
15 April2029 
15 October 2029 
15 Apri12030 
15 October 2030 
15 April 2031 
15 October2031 
15 April2032 
15 October2032 
15 April 2033 
15 October2033 
15 April 2034 
15 October 2034 
15 April2035 
15 October 2035 
15 April2036 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
1.10 %" 
1.13% 
1.16% 
1.18% 
1.21% 
1.24% 
1.28% 
1.31% 
1.34% 
1.37% 
1.41% 
1.44% 
1.48% 
1.52% 
1.55% 
1.59% 
1.63% 
1.67.% 
1.72% 
1.76% 
1.80% 
1.85% 
1.89% 
1.94% 
1.99% 
2.04% 
2.09% 
2.14% 
2.20% 
2.25% 

15 October 2036 
15 Apri12037 
15 October 2037 
15 April2038 
15 October 2038 
1 5 April 2039 
15. October 2039 
15 April2040 
IS October 2040 
IS Apri1204I 
IS October 2041 
IS Apri12042 
IS October 2042 
I5 Apri12043 · 
IS October 2043 
15_ April_ 2044  . 
15 October2044 
15 April2045 

'*· 

- 17-

~ 

2.3.1% 
2.36% 
2.42% 
2.48% 
2.55% 
2.61% 
2.68% 
2.74% 
2.81% 
2.88% 
2.95% 
3.03% 
3.10% 
3.I8% 
3.26% 
3.34% 
3.42% 
3.60% 

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by the  Borrower on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be detennined as follows: 

(a) 

(b) 

To tbe extent that any proc~ of the Loan have been Withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of sueh withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph I  of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original 
Installment  Share")  and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amoun~ repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan ·withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable on any Principal· Payment Date, be treated  as withdrawn and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a  due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the provisions  of such sub-

- 18-

paragraph shall no  longer apply to  any withdrawals made  after the adoption  of 
such billing system. 

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding the provisions ofparagraphs I  and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that  is  repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount·in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amotmts of principal in 
the Approved  Currency  payable  by the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the ~change rate component of the Screen Rate. 

. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance  is  denominated in more than one Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately to the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

,: 

.. 

- 19-

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 

1. 

2. 

3 ~ 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  m,eans  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 

"Bank's Safeguards Policies" means the operational policies and procedures for financing 
of ~elopment projec~ by the  Bank  at. the  date  of this  Agreement. and  relating  to 
Envrronmental  Assessment,  Natural  Habitats,  Pest  Management,  Indigenous  Peoples 
(Ethnic  Minorities),  Physical  Cultural  Re59urces,  Involuntary  Resettlement,  Forests, 
Safety of Dam, Projects on International Waterways, and Projects in Disputed Areas, as 
published under www .WorldBank.orWomnanual. 

"Category'' means  a  category set forth  in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2  to this 
Agreement. 

"CDM  Center''  means  the  China  Clean  Development  Mechanism  fund  Management 
Center,  a  Public  Service  Unit  Corporation  operating  under  the  People's  Republic  of 
China Organization Code, Organization code no. 71782033-X, which shall be responsible 
for assisting the PMO with the day-to-day implementation of tlie Project. 

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" 
dated January 2011  (revised July 2014). 

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012. 

the  "lnternational  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 

"Implementation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the 
Borrower, through MOF, and the CDM Center pursuant to Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be  amen~ from time to time with the prior written 
concurrence  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  supplemental  to  said 
a~ment. 

· 

"Incremental Operating Costs" J,11CanS  the reasonable costs incurred by the PMO and the 
CDM  Center  for  pwposes  of Project  management  and  implementation,  on account  of 
office  supplies  and consumables,  utilities,  bank charges,  communications,  ma8s  media 
and printing services, interpretation and translation services, vehicle rental, operation and 
maintenance,  and  insurance,  building and equipment maintenance,  local transportation, 
domestic  travel,  lodging,  and  subsistence  allowances,  salaries  of  contractual  and 
temporary staff,  but excluding.· salaries  and any  salary  supplements  of members  of the 
Borrower's civil service. 

9. 

''Ministry  of Finance"  and  the  acron}rm  "MOF'  mean  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of 
Finance, or any successor thereto. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

-20-

"Operations  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual  prepared  on  March  28,  2016, 
acceptable to the Bank, and to  be formally  issued by MOF no  later than  the  Effective 
Date,  providing,  inter  alia,  for:  (a)  the  institutional,  implementation,  supervision, 
monitoring and evaluation and reporting arrangements for the Project;  (b) the eligibility 
and selection criteria, applicable norms and regulations, technical specifications and other 
implementation  aspects  of Subprojects;  and  (c)  implementation  guidelines  for  various 
Project  activities,  including  financial  management,  procurement  and  disbursement 
aspects,  as  such  manual  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with ·the  prior  written 
concurrence  of the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all -schedules  supplemental  to  said 
manual. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"'m~ the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and 
Non-consulting Serviees ~de_t mRD Loan8 and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank 
Borrowers" dated January 2011  (revised July 2014). 

"Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
25, 2016 and referred to in paragraph LIS of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be updated from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs .. 

''PrOject Management Office" and the acronym ''PMO" ~ean the office established by 
the  Borrower  within  its  Ministry  of Finance,  comprising  members  of MOF's  Policy 
Research  Department  and  Department  of  International  Economic  and  ·Financial 
Cooperation,  and  to  be  maintained  according  to  the  provisions  of  Section  I.B.l  of 
Schedule  2  to this Agreement,  which shall be responsible for the overall  coordinatio~ 
management,  monitoring  and  reporting,  and  implementation  of the  Project,  and  any 
successor thereto. 

"Subproject" means a technical assistance set of activities to be designed-and carried out 
under the Project by a  Subproject hnplementing Agency in accordanc~ with the criteria 
set forth in this Agreement and the Operations Manual, with the objective of erihancing 
institutional capacity building at the national level for the adoption and implementation of 
sound· reform and development strategies, ·policies and implementation plans in selected 
thematic  areas,  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and  the  term 
"Subprojects" means, collectively, all Subprojects. 

. 

"Subproject Implementing Agency" and the acronym "SIA'' mean a department or unit of 
MdF, any of the Borrower's ~ther ministries or departments, and other public agencies or 
entities  as  agreed  with  the  Bank,  which  is  responsible  for  iinplementing  one or more 
Subprojects; and the term "Subproject Implementing Agencies" and the acronym "SIAs" 
means, collectively, all such implementing agencies. 

"Subproject  Management  Team"  means  each  of  the  teams  to  be  appointed  and 
maintained in each SIA pursuant to Section I.B.S of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

"Training'' means the costs of training activities under the Project, based on annual work 
plans  and  budgets  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,  workshops, 
scholarships,  secondment programs,  and domestic and overseas  study tours,  along with 
travel and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers,  rental of 

-21-

training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and ~ther activities 
directly related to course,preparation and implementation, but excluding salaries and any 
salary supplements of members of the Borrower's civil service. 

. .. 

