OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8609-MA

Loan Agreement

(Integrated Disaster  Risk Management  and Resilience  Program)

KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated July 26,  2016

LOAN  AGREEMENT

LOAN  NUMBER  8609-MA

AGREEMENT  dated  July  26,  2016,  between  KINGDOM  OF  MOROCCO  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower
and  the Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined in  the  Appendix  to  this Agreement)  constitute  an  integral  part
of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have  the
meanings  ascribed  to them  in the  General  Conditions  or  in  the Appendix  to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees to lend  to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or  referred to  in this
Agreement,  the amount  of two  hundred  million  Dollars,  ($200,000,000),  as  such  amount  may be
converted  from  time  to time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section 2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to assist  in financing  the program  described  in Schedule
1 to this Agreement  ("Program").

2.02. 

The Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with  Section IV  of Schedule
2  to this  Agreement.  All  withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account  shall  be  deposited by  the  Bank  into
an account  specified  by the Borrower  and acceptable  to the Bank.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one  percent  (0.25%)
of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent

(0.25%)  per annum on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for the Loan Currency  plus the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a Conversion
of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan, the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower
during the Conversion  Period  on such amount shall  be  determined  in accordance  with the  relevant
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if any  amount
of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid when  due  and  such non-payment  continues  for a
period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as
provided in  Section 3.02  (e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are  January  15  and July  15  in  each  year.

2.07.  The principal  amount of the Loan  shall  be repaid  in accordance  with the  amortization  schedule  set

forth  in  Schedule  3  to this  Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following Conversions  of the terms  of
the Loan in  order to  facilitate  prudent debt management:  (i) a change  of the Loan Currency
of all or any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan, withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to an
Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any
portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable
Rate to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;  or (B)  all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Reference  Rate and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based on  a Variable  Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based on
a  Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the  setting of limits  on  the Variable  Rate  or  the Reference  Rate
applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that is  accepted  by  the
Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General  Conditions,  and shall
be  effected  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and
of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following the Execution  Date for an  Interest Rate  Cap  or Interest Rate  Collar for
which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the
Loan, the Bank shall,  on behalf of the  Borrower, withdraw  from  the Loan Account and  pay
to itself the  amounts required  to pay any premium  payable  in  accordance  with Section 4.05
(c)  of the General  Conditions  up to the amount  allocated  from  time to time  for the  purpose
in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its  commitment  to the objective  of the  Program.  To this  end, the  Borrower
shall carry out Parts  I and 2  of the Program  through the Mol  and Part  3 of the Program  through  the
MoEF,  in  accordance  with  the provisions of Article  V of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as  the
Borrower and the  Bank shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Program  is carried
out  in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the  Program
Operations  Manual,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been  adopted  by  the
Borrower.

4.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister  of Economy  and  Finance.

5.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:
Ministre  de  l'Economie  et des  Finances
Avenue  Mohammed  V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco

Cable: 

MINFIN 

5.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

Facsimile:

212-537-76-40-81

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at  Rabat,  Kingdom  of Morocco,  as of the  day and  year first above  written.

-4-

KINGDOM  OF  MOROCCO

By

By

/Authorized  Representative

Name:  Mohammed  Boussaid

Title:  Minister  of Economy  and Finance

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Marie  Frangoise  Marie-Nelly

Title:  Country  Director

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program  Description

The  objective  of the  Program  is  to  improve  the  institutional  framework  to  finance  disaster  risk
reduction  activities  and  strengthen  financial  resilience  to  natural  disasters  for  targeted  populations  in  the
Program  Area.

The Program  consists  of the  following  activities:

Part  1:  Promoting  Institutional  Reform  and Capacity  Building

Committee, 

Strengthening  the  existing  disaster  institutional  risk  management  structure  through  the  following:  (i)
establishment  of an  improved  governance  structure  for  the  FLCN,  including  the  establishment  of  the
Steering 
Secretariat;
Selection 
(ii)  establishment  of a  transparent  and results focused  process for the  allocation  of FLCN  resources  for the
financing of Eligible Sub-projects,  as  well  as  of a  monitoring  and  evaluation  system  for the  Eligible  Sub-
projects  funded  by FLCN; (iii)  capacity  building  for improved  disaster risk management  for line Ministries,
local governments,  public agencies, and  state  owned enterprises  in  the Program  Area;  and (iv) development
of a national  integrated  disaster risk  and resilience  management  strategy.

Commission 

National 

and 

the 

the 

Part 2:  Scaling  up  Disaster Risk Reduction  Activities

Carrying out of Eligible  Sub-projects  to be  financed  by  FLCN and  relevant  Ministries,  local  governments,
and  public agencies  or state-owned  enterprises.

Part 3:  Improving  Disaster  Risk Financing and  Insurance

Designing and implementing  a national  insurance  program against  catastrophic  events  for homeowners  and
businesses,  and  establishing  the  FSEC,  a  dedicated  solidarity  fund  to  compensate  uninsured  households
affected by catastrophic  events.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Program Execution

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

Section  I. 

Implementation Arran2ements

A. 

Program Fiduciary, Environmental  and Social  Systems

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of the General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall
carry  out  the  Program,  or  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out,  in  accordance  with  financial
management,  procurement  and  environmental  and  social  management  systems  acceptable  to  the
Bank ("Program  Fiduciary, Environmental  and  Social  Systems") which  are designed  to ensure  that:

the  Loan  proceeds  are  used  for  their  intended  purposes,  with  due  attention  to  the  principles  of
economy,  efficiency,  effectiveness,  transparency,  and accountability;  and

the  actual  and  potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of the  Program  are  identified,
avoided,  minimized,  or  mitigated,  as  the  case  may  be,  all  through  an  informed  decision-making
process.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Without  limitation  on  the provisions  of  Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the
Program,  or  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines.

Other Program Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements

Program  Institutions  for Parts  I and 2  of the  Program

Without  limitation  on  the  generality  of Part  A  of this  Section  I, the  Borrower  shall  maintain the
following  institutional arrangements  throughout the implementation  of Parts  I and 2 of the Program
and  as  further  set  out in  the  Program  Operations  Manual  and,  except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise
agree,  during  the implementation  of the  Program,  the Borrower  shall  not  amend  or  waive  any  of
such  arrangements  if, in  the  opinion of the  Bank,  such  amendment  or  waiver  may  materially  and
adversely  affect the carrying out of Parts  I and  2 of the Program  or the achievement  of the objective
thereof.

(a) 

Steering Committee

The  Steering  Committee  shall  be  responsible  for,  inter alia: (i)  setting  the strategic  direction  for
FLCN;  (ii)  defining  and  reviewing  the selection  eligibility  criteria  for  the  sub-projects  to  be  co-
financed  by  FLCN;  (iii)  providing  a  sounding  board  for  line  Ministries'  and  local  governments'
priorities  in  relation  to  Eligible  Sub-projects;  (iv)  monitoring  and  evaluating  the  results  of the
Eligible  Sub-projects  in  the Program  Area;  and (v)  overseeing  and  providing guidance  to both the
National Selection Commission and the  Secretariat. Following  its establishment, the  Borrower shall
maintain throughout  the  implementation  of the  Program  the  Steering  Committee  with  members,
staff and resources  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

-7-

(b) 

National  Selection  Commission

The  National  Selection  Commission  shall  operate  under  the  guidance  of the Steering  Committee,
and shall manage the transparent  selection  of Eligible  Sub-projects  to be co-financed by the FLCN.
Following  its  establishment,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  throughout  the  implementation  of  the
Program  the National  Selection  Commission  with  members,  staff and resources  satisfactory  to the
Bank.

(c) 

Secretariat

The  Secretariat  shall  support  the  work  of  the  Steering  Committee  and  the  National  Selection
Commission,  and  it  shall  be  responsible  for  the  monitoring  of day-to-day  coordination  and  the
management  of the  Program,  the  preparation  of the  Program  Reports,  as  further  set  out  in  the
Program  Operations  Manual.  Following  its  establishment,  the Borrower  shall maintain  throughout
the  implementation  of the Program  the Secretariat  with staff and resources satisfactory  to the Bank.

2. 

Program  Institution  for Part  3 of the Program

Without  limitation  on  the  generality  of Part  A  of this  Section  I,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  to
maintain  the  following  institutional  arrangement  throughout  the  implementation  of Part  3  of the
Program and,  except as  the Bank shall  otherwise agree,  during the implementation  of the Program,
the  Borrower  shall  not  amend  or  waive  such  arrangement  if, in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  such
amendment or waiver  may materially  and adversely  affect the carrying out of Part 3  of the Program
or the achievement  of the objective  thereof.

FSEC

3. 

Manual

Following  its  establishment,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure,  throughout  the  implementation  of the
Program, that the FSEC is  maintained in  a  manner satisfactory  to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts  I  and  2  of  the  Program  in  accordance  with  the  Program
Operations  Manual  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  amend
or  waive  any provision  of said  Manual  if, in  the opinion  of the Bank,  such  amendment  or  waiver
may  materially  and  adversely  affect  the  carrying  out  of  Parts  I  and  2  of the  Program  or  the
achievement  of the objective  thereof.

4. 

Additional  Program  Implementation  Arrangements

Without  limitation on the generality  of Part  A  of this  Section  I, the  Borrower  shall  carry  out the
Action  Plan, or cause  the Action  Plan to be  carried  out,  in accordance  with  the  schedule  set out in
the said  Action  Plan  in a  manner satisfactory  to the Bank.

-8-

Section  II. 

Excluded  Activities

A. 

B. 

C. 

1. 

The Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Program  excludes  any  activities  which:

in the opinion of the Bank, are likely  to have significant  adverse  impacts that are  sensitive, diverse,
or unprecedented  on the environment  and/or affected  people;  or

involve  the procurement  of:  (1) works,  estimated  to  cost  USD  50,000,000  equivalent  or  more  per
contract;  (2)  goods,  estimated  to  cost USD  30,000,000  equivalent or  more  per  contract;  (3) non-
consulting  services,  estimated  to  cost  USD  20,000,000  equivalent  or  more  per  contract;  or  (4)
consultants'  services, estimated  to cost  USD  15,000,000  equivalent or more per  contract.

Section  III. 

Program Monitoring,  Reporting  and Evaluation;  Audits

A. 

Program Reports

The Borrower shall  monitor and  evaluate the  progress of the Program  and  prepare Program Reports
in accordance  with the provisions of Section 5.08  of the General  Conditions.  Each Program Report
shall cover the  period  of one  calendar year,  and shall be  furnished to the  Bank not later than ninety
(90)  days after the end of the period  covered  by such  report.

B. 

Program  Financial Audits

Without  limitation  on  the  generality  of Section  L.A  of this  Schedule  2  and  Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  have  the  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with
the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General  Conditions. Each audit of the  Financial  Statements
shall cover the period  of one  fiscal year of the  Borrower. The  audited Financial  Statements  for each
such period  shall be  furnished to the Bank  not later than six (6)  months after the end of such period.

Verification  Protocol

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  verification  missions  at  least  annually  through:  (i) the  IGAT  or
independent  verification agencies  that  the  Bank has  confirmed  in writing to be  acceptable,  for the
verification  of achievement  of DLR  I through  DLR 6  which  are  set  forth  in the table  in  Section
IV.A.2  of this  Schedule;  and  (ii) the  SAI  or  independent  verification  agencies  that  the Bank  has
confirmed  in  writing  to  be  acceptable  , for the  verification  of DLR 7 and DLR  8;  and  furnish to
the Bank not  later than sixty (60)  calendar  days after the  verification of compliance of said DLRs,
reports  on the  results of said  verification  of compliance  process  of such scope  and  in such  detail
as  the Bank shall  reasonably  request.

2. 

Such annual  verifications will  be based  on a review of the  documentation available  at the Mol and
the  MoEF,  as well as  during on-site verification  missions  if any.

-9-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The Borrower may  withdraw the  proceeds  of the  Loan in  accordance  with the provisions of Article
II  of the  General  Conditions, this  Section, and  such additional instructions  as the Bank may specify
from  time  to  time  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  to:  (a)  pay  the  Front-end  Fee;  (b)  pay  each  Interest
Rate  Cap  or  Interest Rate  Collar premium;  and  (c)  finance the Program  Expenditures,  on the  basis
of the  results ("Disbursement  Linked  Results"  or  "DLRs") achieved  by the Borrower, as measured
against  specific  indicators  ("Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or  "DLIs");  all  as  set  forth  in  the
table  in paragraph  2 of this Part  A.

The  following  table  specifies  each  category  of withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan (including
the Disbursement Linked  Indicators  as applicable)  ("Category"),  the  Disbursement  Linked  Results
for each  Category  (as  applicable),  and the  allocation  of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category:

- 10  -

Category 
(including 
Disbursement 
Linked  Indicator as 
applicable)

Disbursement  Linked Result  Amount  of the Loan  Amount  of the  Loan
Allocated  to  the DLI
(expressed  in USD)

(as  applicable) 

Allocated  to  the 
DLR 
(expressed  in  USD)

DLR#1.1(a): 
8,000,000

35,000,000

DLR#1  1(a): 

Preparation  of.  (i) draft

(1) DLI #1: 
The  FLCN strategic 
orientation  and 
governance  structure  provisions  to  be included  in
the  Borrower's  2017  budget
are redesigned  with 
law,  regarding  the
a focus on disaster 
establishment  of the  Steering
risk  reduction 
Committee,  and  the  inclusion
of local  governments
(collectivitis territoriales)
among  the  beneficiaries of
FLCN  financing;  and  (ii)  draft
circulars  (Circulaires) to  be
issued  by the Mol  regarding
the establishment  of the
National  Selection
Commission  and the
Secretariat.

DLR#1.1(b):
7,000,000

DLR#1.2(a):
7,000,000

DLR#1.1(b): 

The Minister  of Interior has
decided  on the annual
allocation from  the FLCN  for
the financing  of Eligible  Sub-
projects

(in  CY  16)
DLR#1.2(a): 

(i)  the Borrower's  2017  budget
law  includes provisions
regarding the  establishment  of
the  Steering  Committee,  and
the  inclusion of local
governments  (collectivitis
territoriales) among the
beneficiaries  of FLCN
financing;  and  (ii)  circulars
(Circulaires) regarding the
establishment  of the  National
Selection  Commission  and the

-1l-

Secretariat  have  been  issued  by
the Mol.

DLR#1.2(b): 

An  interactive  FLCN  website
that provides  public access to
information,  handles
grievances,  and reports  on the
M&E  system,  has been
created.

DLR#1.2(b):
7,000,000

(in  CY17)
DLR#1.3: 

DLR#1.3:  0

DLR# 1.4:  3,000,000

The Steering  Committee,  the
National  Selection
Commission,  the  Secretariat
and the  FLCN webpage  are
maintained.(in  CY18)
DLR# 1.4: 

The  Steering  Committee,  the
National  Selection
Commission,  the  Secretariat
and  the  FLCN  webpage  are
maintained.

A  national  integrated  natural
disaster  risk management
strategy  is  prepared by the
Steering  Committee.

The  Steering  Committee,  the
National  Selection
Commission,  the  Secretariat
and the  FLCN  webpage  are
maintained.

A  national  integrated  natural
disaster  risk management
strategy  is  adopted  by  the
Steering  Committee.

DLR#1.5: 

DLR#1.5:  3,000,000

- 12-

DLR#2.1:  170  million MAD in  DLR#2.1:  5,000,000 

25,000,000

(2)  DLI #2: 
Cumulative  amount  CY16
of 
allocated  to  Eligible  CY17
Sub-projects 

FLCN 

funds  DLR#2.2:  340 million MAD in  DLR#2.2:  5,000,000

DLR#2.3:  510 million MAD in  DLR#2.3:  5,000,000
CY18
DLR#2.4:  680 million MAD in  DLR#2.4:  5,000,000
CY19
DLR#2.5:  850  million MAD in  DLR#2.5:  5,000,000
CY20
(3)  DLI #3 
DLR#3.1:  N/A  in  CY16 
Minimum 
DLR#3.2:  10%  in  CY17 
percentage  of FLCN  DLR#3.3:  10%  in  CY18 
funds  allocated to 
DLR#3.4:  10%  in  CY19 
Eligible Non- 
DLR#3.5:  10%  in  CY20 
Structural  Sub-
projects

DLR#3.1:  0 
DLR#3.2:  2,000,000
DLR#3.3:  2,000,000
DLR#3.4:  2,000,000
DLR#3.5:  2,000,000

8,000,000

DLR#4.1:  N/A  in  CY16 

DLR#4.1:  0 

22,000,000

DLR#4.2:  35% in  CY17 
DLR#4.3:  40%  in CY18 
DLR#4.4:  45%  in CY19 

DLR#4.5:  50%  in CY20 

DLR#4.2:  8,000,000
DLR#4.3:  8,000,000
DLR#4.4:  3,000,000
DLR#4.5:  3,000,000

(4)  DLI #4 
Minimum
percentage  of total 
funding  of Eligible 
Sub-projects
Sprodeythe 
provided  by the
entities  responsible
for  implementation
and  their partners

DLR#5.1:  0 

40,000,000

DLR#5.1:  N/A 

funigib 

(5)  DLJ#5inY1
Cumulative  value  ofinC1
Cumulatinve  of  DLR#5.2:  N/A  in  CY17 
tomletal 
completed  EligibleinC  8
Sub-projects 
Sbpectg  str  DLR#5.4: 
achieving 
disaster
risk reduction  targets 

JC1

DLR#5.3:  100  million  MAD  DLR#5.3:6,666,667

DLR#5.2:  0

350  million  MAD  DLR#5.4:16,666,667

in  CY19
DLR#5.5:  600  million  MAD  DLR#5.5:16,666,666
in  CY20
DLR#6.1:  N/A  in  CY16 
DLR#6.2:  50%  in CY17 
DLR#6.3:  50%  in CY18 
DLR#6.4:  50%  in CY19 
DLR#6.5:  50%  in  CY20 

DLR#6.1:  0 
DLR#6.2:  4,000,000
DLR#6.3:  2,000,000
DLR#6.4:  2,000,000
DLR#6.5:  2,000,000

(6)  DLI#6 
Minimum 
percentage  of 
entities  responsible 
for the 
implementation  of
Eligible  Sub-
projects  having
received  technical

10,000,000

- 13  -

assistance and/or
training

DLR#7.1: 

The draft  catastrophic  risk
insurance  law  is transmitted  by
the  General  Secretary  of the
Government  (Secritariat

(7) DLI#7 
Adoption  of the
catastrophic  risk 
insurance  legislative 
and  regulatory 
framework  and 
minimum  number of  Giniral du Gouvernement) to
people  in the 
the  relevant  Ministries,  and  is
adopted  by  the  Government
Program Area 
Cabinet  (Conseil A
insured for bodily 
Gouvernement)
injuries  against 
catastrophic  events 
DLR#7.2: 

DLR#7.1:  14,500,000  34,500,000

DLR#7.2:  7,000,000

The  draft catastrophic  risk
insurance  law  is transmitted  to
the  Parliament,  and  the
implementation  legal
documents  referred  to  in
Article  71  of the  draft
catastrophic  risk  insurance  law
and providing  for the
effectiveness  of the  insurance
scheme,  are  prepared  by  the
MoEF  and  ACAPS

to 

the 

providing 

implementation 
referred 
of 

The 
legal
documents 
in
Article 
71 
draft
catastrophic  risk  insurance  law
and 
the
effectiveness  of  the  insurance
scheme,  are  adopted  by 
the
Government
DLR#7.4:  5.85 million 
DLR#7.5:  5.85  million 

for 

DLR#7.3: 

DLR#7.3:  5,000,000

DLR#7.4: 8,000,000
DLR#7.5:  0

(8)  DLI#8 
Establishment  and
operationalization  of
the  FSEC  to protect
the  uninsured

- 14  -

DLR#8.1:  N/A 

DLR#8.1:  0 

25,000,000

DLR#8.2: 

DLR#8.2:  9,000,000

DLR#8.3:  8,000,000

to 

71 

the 

implementation 

referred 
of 

The 
legal
documents 
in
Article 
draft
catastrophic  risk  insurance  law
regarding  the  establishment  of
the  FSEC  are  prepared  by  the
MoEF  and  ACAPS
DLR#8.3: 

The implementation  legal
documents  referred  to in
Article 71  of the  draft
catastrophic  risk  insurance  law
regarding the  establishment  of
the FSEC are adopted  by the
Government

FSEC received  initial  financial
contributions  as per the
provisions  of the  catastrophic
risk insurance  law

DLR#8.4: 

DLR#8.4:  8,000,000

(9)  Front-end  Fee  to  Not applicable 
be paid  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in
accordance  with
Section  2.07(b)  of
the General
Conditions
(10)  Interest  Rate 
Cap or  Interest Rate
Collar premium to
be paid  pursuant  to
Section  2.08(c)  of
this Agreement  in

Not applicable 

500,000

0

- 15-

accordance  with
Section  4.05  of the
General  Conditions
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

200,000,000

For  the  purposes  of  Category  (3),  "Eligible  Non-Structural  Sub-projects"  means  Eligible  Sub-projects
which shall  not involve  physical  constructions  (except for some types  of early  warning systems),  as well  as
Eligible  Sub-projects  which  shall  involve  small-scale  physical  construction  and  whose  total  costs  shall  not
exceed the  amount specified  in the  Program  Operations  Manual.

B. 

1. 

2. 

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be  made:

(a) 

(b) 

for  purposes  of  Section  2.05  of  the  General  Conditions,  for  payments  for  Program
Expenditures  made prior  to the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  USD  50,000,000  may  be  made  for  such payments  made
prior to  this date  but on or  after January  1, 2015;  and

for any DLR under Categories (1) through (8),  until  and unless the Borrower  has  furnished
evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  establishing  that  said  DLR  has  been  achieved;  such
evidence to be  verified  in accordance  with the  terms of the Verification  Protocol.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  B. 1(b)  of this Section,  the Borrower  may  withdraw:  (i)  an
amount not to  exceed  USD  50,000,000  as  an  advance;  provided,  however, that  if any  of the  DLRs
set forth  in  the table  in Part  A.2  of this  Section  in  the  opinion of the Bank,  is not  achieved  (or only
partially achieved)  by the  Closing Date, the Borrower shall  refund  such advance  or portion of such
advance  as determined  by the  Bank to the  Bank  promptly  upon notice  thereof by the  Bank. Except
as  otherwise  agreed  with the Borrower, the  Bank shall  cancel the amount  so  refunded.  Any  further
withdrawals  requested  as an advance  under any  Category  shall be  permitted  only on such terms  and
conditions  as  the  Bank shall specify  by  notice to the  Borrower.

3. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions of Part  B.1  (b) of this  Section:

(a) 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of Part  B.3(b)  of this  Section,  if the Bank  is  satisfied  that  any
DLR  for  DLI  #2  and  DLI#  5,  has  been  partially  achieved,  provided  that,  with  respect  to
DLI#2,  at  a  minimum,  for each  CY,  an  amount  of 100,000,000  MAD  has  been allocated
by the FLCN  to  Eligible  Sub-projects,  the  Bank may  authorize  the  withdrawal  of a portion
of the  amount  of the  unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  said  DLR  in
accordance  with the  following  formula:

Loan amount allocated to  the DLI divided  by  the DLI end-line value for CY20  multiplied
by  the  number by  which  the  actual result achieved for  a given  CY  exceeds  the  results
achieved for the previous CY.

(b) 

If the  Bank is  not satisfied  that any  of the  DLRs  have  been  achieved  by the  date  by which
the said  DLR is  set  to  be  achieved,  or  if a  DLR has  been  exceeded,  the  Bank may,  at  any
time, 
to:
(i)  authorize  the  withdrawal  of such  amounts  to  be  calculated  in  accordance  with  the

the  Borrower, 

discretion, 

decide, 

notice 

sole 

by 

its 

to 

in 

- 16-

formula  set  out  in  the  Section  IV.B.3(a)  immediately  above  up  to  the  maximum
unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the Loan then  allocated to the applicable  Category  which, in  the
opinion  of the Bank, corresponds  to the extent of achievement  of said  DLR;  (ii)  reallocate
all  or a  portion  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  said  DLR  to  any  other DLR,
or  vice  versa  within  the  limits  of such  DLI;  and/or  (iii)  cancel  all  or  a  portion  of  the
proceeds  of the Loan then allocated  to  said  DLR, if applicable.

The Closing  Date  is  December  31,  2021.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of this Section  IV,  if at  any time  after the  Closing  Date
the  Borrower  has  failed  to  provide  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the  Withdrawn  Loan
Balance does not exceed the total  amount of Program  Expenditures  paid  by the Borrower, exclusive
of any  such expenditures  financed  by  any  other  financier  or by  the Bank or the Association  under
any  other  loan, credit  or grant, the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the Bank, refund  to
the Bank such excess  amount of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance.  The Bank shall  cancel the refunded
amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance.

- 17-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The  following table  sets forth  the Principal  Payment Dates  of the  Loan  and the percentage  of the
total  principal  amount of the  Loan payable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").
If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the first  Principal  Payment Date,  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable
amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this
Schedule,  to which  a  Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each January  15  and July  15
Beginning  July  15,  2021 
through  January  15,  2041

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

2.50%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,
the  principal  amount  of the  Loan repayable  by the  Borrower on each  Principal  Payment Date  shall
be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent  that any  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  Borrower shall  repay  the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in
accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on  each
Principal  Payment Date falling after the date of such  withdrawal  in amounts determined  by
the  Bank by multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a fraction, the  numerator
of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")  and  the
denominator of which  is the sum  of all  remaining Original  Installment  Shares for Principal
Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as
necessary,  to deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a
Currency  Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts  payable
on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following
the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any  time  the
Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued  on  or  after  the
respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-paragraph  shall  no longer
apply to  any withdrawals  made  after the  adoption of such  billing system.

- 18-

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved  Currency,  the
amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date
occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such
amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts  of principal  in the Approved  Currency  payable  by the  Bank
under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating to the Conversion;  or (ii)  if the Bank so  determines
in accordance  with the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  exchange rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance is  denominated  in  more than one Loan Currency,  the provisions  of
this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as to
produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

- 19-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"ACAPS" means Autoriti de Contr6le des Assurances et de la Privoyance Sociale, the Borrower's
insurance  and social  welfare  supervisory  authority.

"Action  Plan"  means  the Borrower's  plan  dated  March  10,  2016,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.C.4
of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  as  may  be  amended  from  time to  time  with the  agreement  of the
Bank.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  Bank's "Guidelines  on Preventing  and Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Program-for-Results  Financing,"  dated  February  1, 2012,  and  revised July  10,
2015.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"CY"  means the  calendar  year starting on January  I and  ending  on December  31  of each  year.

"Disbursement  Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  in  respect  of a  given  Category,  the  indicator
related to said  Category as  set forth  in the table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked  Result"  or  "DLR"  means  in  respect  of a  given  Category,  the  result  under
said  Category  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  on the
basis  of  the  achievement  of  which,  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  said  result  may  be
withdrawn  in accordance  with  the provisions of said  Section  IV.

"Eligible  Sub-projects"  means  sub-projects,  to  be carried  out in the Program  Area, initiated  by  line
Ministries,  local  governments,  public agencies  or state-owned  enterprises,  consisting  of structural
and  non-structural  activities  for  disaster  risk  reduction,  determined  eligible  by  the  Steering
Committee  on recommendation  from the  National  Selection Commission  and to be co-financed  by
the FLCN, all  in accordance  with the  Selection  Criteria.

"FLCN" means Fonds de Lutte Contre les Effets  des Catastrophes Naturelles, the Borrower's  fund
for the fight against natural  disasters  established pursuant  the  2009  Budget  Law (Law  No.  40-08).

"FSEC"  means  Fonds  de  Solidariti contre  les  Evinements  Catastrophiques, the  Borrower's
solidarity fund  against  catastrophic  events.

"General  Conditions"  means  the "International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development General
Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with the  modifications  set  forth in  Section  II  of this
Appendix.

"IGAT" means Inspection Gjnrale de l'Administration Territoriale, the inspection  unit within the
Mol.

13. 

"MAD"  means  Moroccan  Dirham, the lawful  currency  of the  Borrower.

- 20  -

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

1. 

2. 

"M&E"  means monitoring  and evaluation.

"MoEF"  means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Economy  and  Finance,  or  any  successor thereto.

"Mol"  means  the Borrower's  Ministry  of Interior,  or any  successor thereto.

"National  Selection Commission"  means the  national commission for the selection  of Eligible  Sub-
projects,  to be  established  by the  Borrower in  a manner satisfactory  to the Bank.

"Program  Area"  means  the  regions  of  Tanger-T6touan-Al  Hoceima,  I'Oriental,  F6s-Mekn  s,
Rabat-Sald-K6nitra,  Bdni-Mellal-Kh6nifra,  Casablanca-Settat,  Marrakech-Safi,  Drad-Tafilalet,  and
Souss-Massa, and the provinces  of Guelmin,  Tan-Tan  and Sidi-Ifni  of the  Borrower.

"Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental  and  Social  Systems"  means  the  Borrower's  systems  for the
Program  referred to  in  Section  L.A  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Program  Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual  setting  forth  the  technical,  administrative,
environmental,  social  and  fiduciary  procedures  applicable  to  Parts  1 and 2  of the  Program,  to  be
adopted  by the  Borrower pursuant to  Section  4.01  of this Agreement.

"SAI"  means  Service de l'Audit Interne, the  internal  audit  service  of the  Directorate  of Treasury
and  External  Finances  at the  MoEF.

"Secretariat"  means  the secretariat  to  be  established  by  the Borrower  at the Mol  for  Parts  I and  2
of the  Program,  in  a manner  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

"Selection  Criteria"  means  with  the  criteria  and  arrangements  set  forth  in  the  Program Operations
Manual  for the selection  of Eligible Sub-projects.

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  steering  committee  for  the  Parts  1 and  2  of the  Program  to  be
established  by the  Borrower in  a manner  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

"Verification  Protocol"  means  the verification  protocol  referenced  in Section  III.C of Schedule  2
to this Agreement,  as  set  out in terms  of reference  satisfactory  to the Bank.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are  hereby modified  as follows:

Wherever  used  throughout the General  Conditions,  the term  "the Project"  is  modified  to  read "the
Program",  the  term  "the  Project  Agreement"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program  Agreement",  the
term  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program  Implementing  Entity",  the
term "Project  Report"  is modified  to read "Program  Report";  and the term  "Eligible Expenditures"
is  modified  to  read  "Program  Expenditures".

In  the  Table  of  Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers  are
modified to  reflect the amendments  set  forth below.

-21  -

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Section  2.02,  Special Commitment  by  the  Bank,  is  deleted  in  its  entirety,  and  the  subsequent
Sections  in  Article  II  are renumbered  accordingly.

In  Section 2.02  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.03),  the  heading "Applications for  Withdrawal
or for Special Commitment" is replaced  with "Applications for Withdrawal", and the  phrase  "or  to
request the  Bank  to enter  into a  Special  Commitment"  is  deleted.

The section originally numbered  as  Section 2.04,  Designated Accounts is deleted in its entirety,  and
the  subsequent  Sections  in Article  II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.05),  Eligible  Expenditures
(renamed "Program  Expenditures"  in  accordance  with paragraph  I of this  Section  II),  is  modified
to read:  "(a) the  payment is  for the  financing of the  reasonable cost  of expenditures  required for the
Program  and to  be  financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  in accordance  with  the provisions  of
the  Legal  Agreements;".

The  last  sentence  of  Section  2.04  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.06),  Financing Taxes,  is
modified to read:  "To that  end,  if the Bank  at any time  determines  that the  amount of any such  Tax
is excessive,  or that such Tax is  discriminatory  or otherwise  unreasonable,  the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower,  exclude  such  amount  or  such Tax from  the  Program  Expenditures  to be  financed
out of the  proceeds  of the Loan, as  required to  ensure  consistency  with  such policy  of the  Bank."

8. 

Section  2.06  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.08),  Reallocation, is  modified  to read:

"Notwithstanding any allocation of an amount of the  Loan to a withdrawal  category  under the Loan
Agreement,  the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  reallocate  any  other  amount  of the  Loan to
such  category  if the Bank  reasonably  determines  at any  time  that  such  reallocation  is  appropriate
for the  purposes  of the Program.

9. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower shall  pay  the Bank a front-end  fee on  the  Loan  amount at the  rate  specified

(a) 
in  the  Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower shall  pay the Bank  a commitment  charge on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance
(b) 
at the  rate specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge
shall  accrue  from  a  date sixty days  after the date  of the  Loan Agreement  to the  respective  dates  on
which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually  in arrears  on each Payment Date."

10. 

11. 

Section 7.01,  Cancellation by  the Borrower, is modified  to read:  "The  Borrower may,  by  notice  to
the Bank, cancel  any amount  of the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance."

Paragraph  (d)  of Section  7.03,  Cancellation by  the  Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is  deleted,
and  subsequent paragraphs  are relettered  accordingly.

- 22  -

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

Section  7.04, Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by  Cancellation or Suspension
by  the Bank, is  deleted  in its  entirety, and subsequent Sections  in Article VII and references to such
Sections  are renumbered  accordingly.

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are  modified,  as
necessary,  to  reflect the modifications  set  forth above.

A new  paragraph  19  is  inserted  with  the  following  definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  the
remaining  paragraphs  are  renumbered  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in the  Loan  Agreement

"19. 
for the purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

In the renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally paragraph  48)  of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-
end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing the  reference  to Section  3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition  of the
term "Loan  Payment"  is  modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the Loan  Parties  to the  Bank pursuant  to
"68. 
the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but  not  limited  to)  any  amount  of
the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the Commitment  Charge,  interest  at the
Default  Interest  Rate  (if any),  any  prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or
early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if  any),  any  premium
payable  upon the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any  Unwinding
Amount  payable by  the Borrower."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of  the  Appendix,  the  definition  of
"Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word "is"  and  inserting  the words  "and  Commitment
Charge are"  after the word "interest".

Renumbered  paragraph  88  (originally  paragraph  87)  of the  Appendix,  setting forth the  definition
of "Special  Commitment"  is deleted  in  its  entirety,  and  all subsequent  paragraphs  are renumbered
accordingly.

