LOAN NUMBER  8607-GE

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for Second  Regional  Development  Project)

between

GEORGIA

and

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
for the  purpose  of Schedule  4

Dated  NC, 

2016

LOAN  NUMBER  8607-GE

LOAN  AGREEMENT

P 

Agreement  dated 

, 2016,  between
GEORGIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the purpose  of providing additional  financing for the
Original  Project  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  and  activities  related
thereto,  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  ("Association")  for
the  purpose  of Schedule  4.  The  Borrower  and the  Bank hereby  agree as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General Conditions  (as defined  in  the Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires  otherwise, the capitalized terms used  in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the General  Conditions  or  in  the Appendix
to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of nine  million  Dollars  ($9,000,000)
("Loan"),  as  such amount  may  be converted  from  time to time through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement
in  Schedule  1  to  this
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described 
Agreement ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may withdraw the  proceeds  of the  Loan in accordance  with Section
IV  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge  payable  by the  Borrower  shall be  equal to one  quarter of

one  percent (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any

-2-

amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be calculated  as provided  in Section  3.02 (e)  of the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates are  April  I and  October  1 in each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate  to a  Fixed  Rate, or vice  versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from  a Variable Rate  based on a Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate based  on  a  Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting  of
limits  on the  Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan withdrawn and  outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant to  paragraph  (a) of this Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following the Execution  Date for an Interest  Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from the Loan  Account and  pay to  itself the  amounts
required to  pay  any premium  payable  in accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)
of the  General  Conditions  up to the amount allocated  from time to time for
the purpose  in  the  table in  Section IV  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

-3-

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its  commitment  to the objective of the Project.  To this end,
the Borrower  shall cause  the  Project to  be carried  out by the  Project  Implementing
Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions
and the  Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project  is carried  out in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
Project 
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability
of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the
Project  Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a
period  of sixty  (60)  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to
the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower,
its  Ministry  of  Finance,  and  by  the  Ministry  of  Regional
through 
Development  and  Infrastructure  and  the Project  Implementing  Entity.

The  Project  Operations  Manual  has  been  updated  and  adopted  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal Matter  consists  of the following,  namely,  that the Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity in  accordance  with  its terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister  of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
16  Gorgasali  Street
0114  Tbilisi
Georgia

Facsimile:
995-32-2262423

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
International  Development  Association
1818 H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 
248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Tbilisi, Georgia,  as  of the day  and  year first above  written.

-5-

GEORGIA

By

Autori  d  Representative

Name: 

A F?tof o.

Title:  AGs er  ipf  Akwo ez

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
for the  purpose  of Schedule 4

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  ewA  "?&
6Oa &7i 

Title: 

t" f(ecior

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  infrastructure  services  and  institutional
capacity  to  support  increased  contribution  of tourism  in the  local  economy  of the  Imereti
region.

The  Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part A:Infrastructure Investment

Provision  of financing  for carrying  out  Investment  Subprojects  for:  (1) the  urban
regeneration  of Tskaltubo  which  includes:  (a)  the rehabilitation  of municipal  infrastructure
and  utilities;  (b)  the  upgrading  of  public  spaces,  parks,  and  construction  of  tourism
amenities;  and  (c)  the  restoration  of public  buildings with  vernacular  architecture;  and  (2)
tourism  circuit  development  which  includes:  (a)  improving  urban  landscaping  and  public
parking;  (b) the construction  of info  kiosks, cafes and  public toilets;  (c)  the reconstruction,
restoration  and/or  refurbishment  of  the  exterior  and  interior  of  the  Vani  museum;  (d)
improving  access  roads;  and (e)  the  preservation  of selected  cultural  heritage  sites.

Part B: Institutional Development

Enhancing  the  institutional  capacity  and  performance  of the  Georgia  National
the  Agency  for  Culture  Heritage  Preservation  of
Tourism  Administration  (GNTA), 
Georgia  (ACHP),  the  National  Museum,  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  other  local
and  regional  entities  to  carry  out  the  following  activities:  (1)  the  establishment  of the
Tskaltubo  destination  management  and  development  office;  (2)  sustainable  development
and  promotion;  the  establishment  of  the  geotourism  routes  and  tourism  portal  and
conducting  a  local  outreach  campaign;  (3) the  preparation  of visitors'  management  plans
for  the  sustainability  of  the  Project's  cultural  heritage  sites;  (4)  skilled  workforce
development and  capacity  building;  (5) monitoring and  evaluation  of performance;  and (6)
the  provision  of construction  supervision  support.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

D. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the Project  Implementing  Entity to  carry out the Project
in  accordance  with  this  Agreement,  the  Project  Agreement,  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  and  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend,
abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of said  Manual  without  the  prior written
approval  of the  Bank.

For the  purpose  of ensuring  the  proper  coordination  and  execution  of the  Project,
the  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  supervisory  board  of the  Project  Implementing
Entity.  The  functions of said  board  shall include,  inter alia: (a)  overall  supervision
of the  implementation  of the  Project;  (b)  inter-agency  coordination  to  achieve  the
Project  objectives;  and  (c)  review  and  approval  of  the  annual  work  programs'
budgets  and  reports  for the operation  of the Project  Implementing  Entity.

Subsidiary  Agreement

To facilitate the  carrying  out of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds
of the  Loan  available  to the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  on  a grant basis,  under  a
subsidiary  agreement  between  the  Borrower, through  its  Ministry of Finance,  and
by  the  Ministry  of  Regional  Development  and  Infrastructure  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank
("Subsidiary  Agreement").

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such
manner  as  to  protect the  interests  of the Borrower  and  the Bank  and  to accomplish
the  purposes  of the Loan.  Except as  the Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower
shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or any of its
provisions.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Investment  Subprojects

For  purposes  of  Part  A  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  Investment  Subprojects  for  the  benefit  of the

2. 

3. 

E. 

1 .

-8-

Beneficiaries,  in  each  case  under  an Investment  Subproject Agreement  with  each
Beneficiary,  in accordance  with eligibility criteria and procedures  acceptable to the
Bank,  and  set forth  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  in  accordance  with  the
Project  Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall cause the Project  Implementing  Entity to enter into  Investment
Subproject  Agreements  under terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank, which
shall  include  that  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  obtain  rights  and
obligations  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of the  Borrower  and  the
Bank,  as  set forth  in the  Project  Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  exercise  its  rights
under  each  Investment  Subproject  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  its
interests  and  those  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes
of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
assign, amend,  abrogate  or waive  any  Investment  Subproject Agreement or any of
its provisions.

Safeguards

is  carried  out  by  the  Project
The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  EMF,  EA(s),
EMP(s),  RPF  and  RAP(s).  The  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or
waive the EMF,  EA(s), EMP(s),  RPF and  RAP(s) or any provision thereof, without
the prior approval  of the  Bank.

2. 

For  purposes  of  Part  A  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project
Implementing  Entity:

(a) 

(b) 

prior to  the  preparation  of the  Subproject  Summary  Report  or Subproject
Appraisal  Report  for  each  Investment  Subproject,  to  submit  to  the  Bank
for  its  approval:  (i)  the  proposed  design  and  site  for  said  Investment
Subproject;  (ii)  the proposed  environmental  assessment category  and  risk
rating  assigned  thereto;  (iii)  the  proposed  environmental  instrument  to be
prepared;  and  (iv)  the  assessment  of whether  a  RAP  would  need  to  be
prepared  for the  said  Investment  Subproject;

when  presenting  an  Investment  Subproject  to  the  Bank  for  approval,  to
furnish  to  the  Bank  a  Subproject  Summary  Report  or  a  Subproject
Appraisal  Report, in  form  satisfactory  to the  Bank, which  includes:  (i) the
description  of  the  proposed  Investment  Subproject  and  the  respective
expenditures  proposed  to  be  financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan;  (ii)
the  related  EA  or a  self-standing  site-specific  EMP  and  RAP,  as  the  case
may  be,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  (iii)  technical,
financial  and  economic  analysis  of the  proposed  Investment  Subproject;

-9-

and  (iv)  the  proposed  terms  and  conditions  of the  Investment  Subproject
Agreement  to  be used  for the  Investment  Subproject;

prior to  the  issuance  of the  bidding  documents  for  the  works  contract  for
each  Investment  Subproject,  to  prepare  and  submit  to  the  Bank  for  its
approval:  (i) the  draft  bidding  documents,  including  site-specific  EMP;
and  (ii)  the  evidence  that  the  said  EMP  has been  disclosed  and  consulted
with Investment  Subproject-affected  people;  and

if an Investment  Subproject  requires  land acquisition  or resettlement,  prior
to  the  commencement  of the works  under  such  Investment  Subproject,  to
ensure  that  the owners  and  users  of the  land  or  other property  affected  by
said works are  fully compensated  in accordance  with the provisions  of the
RAP(s).

3. 

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  ensure  that  all  activities  undertaken  for  the  purpose  of
carrying  out  of the  Project  comply  with  environmental  standards  and  guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) ensure that the selection  of any  Investment Subproject
under Part A  of the Project  is  done  in accordance  with  the provisions  of the EMF;
(c)  ensure  the  complete  implementation  of the  EMP(s)  in a  manner  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  including  all  necessary  measures  to  minimize  and  to  mitigate  any
adverse  environmental  impacts  caused  by  the  implementation  of the  Project;  and
(d)  maintain  the Project  Implementing Entity's environmental  unit with competent
staff in adequate  numbers  and  with  such  responsibilities  and  functions  acceptable
to the Bank  as  shall  enable  the Project  Implementing  Entity  to manage,  coordinate
and monitor the  implementation  of the  EMP(s).

4. 

Prior to  carrying  out any  Investment  Subproject  that  requires  land  acquisition  or
resettlement,  in the opinion of the  Bank, the  Borrower shall:

ensure  that 
according to  the RPF;

the  Project  Implementing  Entity  prepares 

the  RAP(s)

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,
and  publicize  or  cause  to  be  publicized  by  the  Project  Implementing
Entity,  the  availability  of, grievance  procedures  to  hear  and  determine
fairly  and  in good faith,  in accordance  with the  RPF, all  complaints  raised
in  relation  to  the  implementation  of the  RAP(s),  and  take  all  measures
necessary  to  implement  the  determinations  made  under  such  grievance
procedures;

the  RPF  and  confirm 

cause the Project Implementing  Entity to review consistency  of the RAP(s)
to
with 
commencement  of works  under  each  Investment  Subproject  for  which  a
RAP  has been  prepared;

implementation  of  RAP(s)  prior 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

-10-

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  employ  a  resettlement  expert,
to  conduct  an  ex-post  review  of  the
satisfactory 
to 
implementation  of the  RAP(s);

the  Bank, 

cause the Project Implementing  Entity to furnish  promptly to the Bank the
findings  and  recommendations  for  follow  up  action  resulting  from  each
such  review;  and

the  Project 

implement  all 
Implementing  Entity 
cause 
recommendations  for follow  up action  as are agreed  with the  Bank.

to 

such

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to
the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of the  period  covered  by  such
report.

Financial Management, Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  prepare  and furnish
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar
semester,  interim unaudited  financial  reports for the Project covering  the semester,
in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  its  Project
Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance with  the provisions  of Section  5.09 (b)
of the General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover the
period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for
each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank not later than  six (6)  months  after
the end  of such  period.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-11-

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
consulting  services  required  for the  Project  and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized  terms used below in  this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
in  Sections  11  and  III  of  the
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Procurement Guidelines,  or Sections II,  III,  IV  and V of the Consultant  Guidelines,
as the  case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those contracts  specified  in  the Procurement  Plan:

Limited  International  Bidding;

(a) 

(b) 

National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject 
provisions:

to  the  following  additional

(i) 

(ii) 

"Open  competitive  procedures"  (i.e.  "public  tender")  shall be the
default  rule.  A  single  envelope  procedure  shall  be  used  for  the
submission  of goods,  works, or non-consulting  services.

Invitations  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  at  least  one  widely
circulated  national  daily  newspaper  allowing a  minimum  of thirty
submission  of  bids.
(30)  days 

the  preparation  and 

for 

-12-

Advertisements  published  in  foreign  language  newspapers  shall
be in  compliance  with  such a  30-day-minimum  in  number of days
for  bids preparation  and  submission.

to  pre-registered  firms. 

If
Bidding  shall  not  be  restricted 
registration  is  required,  it  shall  not  be  denied  to  eligible  bidders
to
for  reasons  unrelated 
successfully  perform the  contract  (e.g.,  mandatory  membership  in
professional  organizations,  classification,  etc.).  Post-qualification
shall  be  conducted  to  verify  that the  bidder has  the capability  and
resources  to successfully  perform  the  contract.

their  capacity  and 

resources 

to 

Government-owned  enterprises  or  institutions  in  the  Borrower's
country  shall  be eligible  to  participate  in bidding  only  if they can
establish that they are  legally and  financially autonomous,  operate
under  commercial  law  and  are  not  a  dependent  agency  of  the
Borrower.  Government-owned  enterprises  or  institutions  in  the
the  same  bid  and
Borrower's  country  will  be  subject 
performance  security  requirements  as other  bidders.

to 

including  pre-qualification  documents, 

Procuring  entities shall use the appropriate Bank's sample bidding
the
documents, 
procurement  of  goods,  works,  or  non-consulting  services,  and
such  documents  shall  contain  draft  contract  and  conditions  of
contract  including  clauses  on  fraud  and  corruption,  audit  and
publication  of award, all  acceptable  to the  Bank.

for 

Bids  shall be opened  in public,  immediately  after the  deadline for
submission  of bids.  Bidder's representatives  shall be  permitted  to
attend  the  bid opening.

Extension  of bid  validity  shall be allowed  once  only for  not more
than  thirty  (30)  days.  No  further  extensions  should  be requested
without the  prior approval  of the Bank.

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii)  Evaluation  of bids  shall be based on quantifiable  criteria expressed
in  monetary  terms  as defined  in the  bidding  documents,  no  merit
point  system  and  no  domestic  preference  shall  be  used  in  the
evaluation of bids.  Contracts  shall be awarded to qualified  bidders
having  submitted  the  lowest  evaluated  substantially  responsive
bid  and  no  negotiations  shall  be  carried  out  prior  to  contract
award.

(ix) 

Civil  works  contracts  of long  duration  (e.g.  more  than  eighteen
(18)  months)  shall  contain  an appropriate  price  adjustment  clause.

-13-

(x) 

No  bid  shall  be  rejected  purely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price  is
higher  than  the  estimated  budget  for  that  procurement.  All  bids
shall  not  be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  Bank's
prior  concurrence.

(c) 

Shopping;  and

(d) 

Direct  Contracting.

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for  those contracts which  are  specified  in the
Procurement  Plan:

(a) 

Quality-based  Selection;

(b) 

Selection  under a  Fixed  Budget;

Least  Cost Selection;

Selection  based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications;

Single-source  Selection  of consulting firms;

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Procedures  set forth  in paragraphs 5.2  and  5.3  of the Consultant Guidelines
for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants;  and

(g) 

Single-source  procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

-14-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article II  of the General Conditions, this Section, and such  additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised
from  time to time  by the  Bank  and  as  made applicable  to this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the table  in
paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

Category 

(1) Goods,  works, non- 
consulting  services, 
consultants'  services  and
Training
(2)  Operating  Costs 

8,797,500

100%

180,000 

100%

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

22,500 

Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due pursuant  to
Section  2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

(4)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate  Collar 
premium 

0 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

9,000.000

-15-

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  $900,000  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior to  this  date  but  on  or after  February  25,  2016,  for  Eligible
Expenditures  under Category  (1).

2. 

The Closing  Date is  December  30,  2018.

-16-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment  Date, the  principal amount  of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment  Date shall be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date; by  (b) the  Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each  April  1 and  October  1

Beginning October  1, 2034 
through  October  1, 2036

On April  1, 2037 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

16.67%

16.65%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal Payment  Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent that any proceeds  of the Loan  have been  withdrawn as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

-17-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the  Loan withdrawn  within  two  calendar months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal  and shall  be repayable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system  under which  invoices
are issued on  or after the respective  Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after
the adoption  of such  billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal Payment Date occurring  during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to  the Conversion  by either:  (i) the  exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines 
in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan Currency, so  as to  produce  a  separate amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

-18-

SCHEDULE  4

Amendments  to the  Original Financing Agreement

The  Borrower  and  the  Association  hereby  agree  to  amend  the  Original  Financing

A. 
Agreement  as  follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

Schedule  1 to  the  Original  Financing  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  and
replaced  by  Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

Paragraph  2  of  Section  IV.B.  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Original  Financing
Agreement  is  hereby  amended  and  replaced  in  its  entirety  to  read  as
follows:

"2. 

The Closing  Date  is  December  30,  2018."

The  following  definitions  included  in  the  Appendix  to  the  Original
Financing Agreement  are hereby amended  and replaced  in  their entirety to
read  as  follows:

""Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and
Employment  of Consultants  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits
and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011
(revised  July 2014)."

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement
of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans
and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated
January  2011  (revised  July 2014)."

4. 

The  following  definition  is  added  to  Section  I  of  the  Appendix  to  the
Financing  Agreement,  in  alphabetical  order,  and  the  rest  of the  definitions
are  renumbered  accordingly, as  follows:

the 

the
"Project  Agreement"  means 
the  Municipal
International  Development  Association 
Development  Fund, dated November 9, 2012, referred  to in  Section
the  Project
3.01  of  this  Agreement  pursuant 
Implementing  Entity shall  carry  out the  Project."

agreement  between 

to  which 

and 

-19-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants", dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011.

"Beneficiary"  means  an 
Subproject  and  listed  in  the Project  Operations  Manual.

institution  eligible  to  benefit  from  an  Investment

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised  July  2014).

"EA(s)"  or  "Environmental  Assessment(s)"  means  the  process(es)  of analyzing
impacts  of  an
character,  magnitude,  and  span  of  potential  environmental 
Investment  Subproject,  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  for
preparing  EMP(s)  for high  risk Investment  Subprojects  identified  through  the risk
assessment  procedure  provided  in  the EMF.

"EMF"  or  "Environmental  Management  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's
environmental  management  framework,  dated  September  21,  2012,  and  updated
on  February  25,  2016,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  outlining  the  procedures  for:  (a)
screening  Investment  Subprojects  based  on  their  expected  impacts  on  the  natural
and  social  environment,  and  cultural  heritage;  (b)  evaluating  their  risks;  (c)
defining  a  need  for  environmental  assessment  as  part  of  the  procedure  for
preparing  EMP(s);  (d)  disclosure;  and (e)  management, related to the  selection  and
implementation  of the  Investment  Subprojects  under the  Project.

"EMP(s)"  or  "Environmental  Management  Plan(s)"  means  the  Borrower's  site-
specific  environmental  management  plan(s), acceptable  to the  Bank prepared  or to
be prepared  by  the Project  Implementing  Entity during  the Project  implementation
in  accordance  with the  EMF  and  approved  by the  Bank, describing  environmental
mitigation,  monitoring  and  institutional  measures  for any  Investment  Subproject
under the  Project.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section II  of this Appendix.

-20-

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Investment  Subproject Agreement"  means  an  agreement entered  into between  the
Project  Implementing  Entity and  the Beneficiaries for the purposes  of Part A of the
Project,  in accordance  with the  provisions  of the  Project  Operations  Manual.

"Investment  Subproject"  means a subproject to be carried out in the  Imereti region
for the  benefit  of Beneficiaries  utilizing  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance
with  Section  D  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  Sections  C,  D.2  and  D.4  of the
Schedule  to the  Project Agreement.

"Ministry  of  Regional  Development  and  Infrastructure"  means  the  Borrower's
Ministry  of Regional  Development  and  Infrastructure,  or  any successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Finance"  means  the Borrower's Ministry  of Finance,  or any successor
thereto.

"National Museum"  means the National  Museum of Georgia  established  by virtue
of Government  Decree  No. 697  of December  25,  2014.

"Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower  with
respect  to  Project  implementation,  management  and  monitoring,  including  the
costs  of support  staff salaries  (excluding  salaries  of the  Borrower's  civil  service
staff),  communication,  editing,  printing  and  publication,  translation,  vehicle
operation and  maintenance, bank charges,  local travel  costs and  field trip expenses,
office rentals,  utilities,  and office  supplies.

"Original  Financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  for  a  Second  Regional
the  International  Development
Development  Project  between  Georgia  and 
Association,  dated November  9,  2012  (Credit No. 5178-GE).

"Original  Project"  means  the  Project  described 
Agreement.

in  the  Original  Financing

the
"Original  Project  Agreement"  means 
International  Development  Association  and  the  Municipal  Development  Fund,
dated November  9,  2012  (Credit No.  5178-GE).

the  project  agreement  between 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the  Borrower's procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
February 25,  2016  and referred  to in  paragraph  1.18  of the Procurement  Guidelines
and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the same shall be updated  from
time to  time  in accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

-21-

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  International  Bank  for
Reconstruction  and  Development  and  the  Municipal  Development  Fund,  of even
date  herewith,  referred  to in  Section  3.01  of this Agreement  pursuant to  which the
Project  Implementing  Entity  shall carry out the  Project.

"Project 
established  pursuant  to  Government  Decree No.  558  dated October  30,  2015.

Implementing  Entity"  means 

the  Municipal  Development  Fund

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means  the  Charter  of the  Municipal
Development  Fund  established  pursuant  to  Government  Decree  No.  558  dated
October 30,  2015.

(a)  specifying  the  key 

the  Project
"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual  prepared  by 
Implementing  Entity  (as herein defined)  dated September  21,  2012,  satisfactory  to
instruments  for  the  implementation  and
the  Bank: 
coordination  of the Project,  including  (i)  the  managerial,  financial,  administrative,
the  Project
engineering  and  environmental  policies  and  procedures  of 
Implementing  Entity  (as  herein  defined)  for  the  execution  of the  Project;  (ii)  the
procurement  and  financial  management  procedures;  (iii)  the  eligibility criteria  for
selection  of Investment Subproject(s);  (iv)  the terms and conditions  for Investment
Subproject  Agreements;  (v)  procurement  and  implementation  of  Investment
Subprojects;  and  (vi)  the  staffing,  management  and  responsibilities  of the  Project
Implementing  Entity;  and  (b)  including  in  Annex  4  thereto  the  EMF,  as  such
Project Operations  Manual  may be amended  from time  to time with the agreement
of the  Bank.

"RAP"  or  "Resettlement  Action  Plan"  means  a  resettlement  action  plan,
to  the  Bank,  to  be  prepared  and  implemented  by  the  Project
satisfactory 
Implementing  Entity  for  carrying  out  activities  under  the  Project  in  accordance
with  the  RPF  (as  hereinafter  defined),  to  set  out,  inter alia, the  principles  and
objectives,  the  affected  persons'  eligibility  criteria,  compensation,  assistance  and
rehabilitation  entitlements,  as  well  as  the  monitoring  and  reporting  arrangements
in  conformity  with the  RPF  (as  hereinafter  defined).

"RPF"  or  "Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  Project  Implementing
Entity's  framework,  dated  September  21,  2012,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  the
carrying  out  of  land  acquisition  activities  under  the  Project,  which  sets  out  the
procedures  to  be  followed  in  the  carrying  out  of said activities  as  such  framework
may  be amended  from  time to  time with the  prior approval  of the  Bank.

"Subproject  Appraisal  Report"  means  the  Subproject  appraisal  report  referred  to
in Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

"Subproject  Summary  Report"  means  the  Subproject  summary  report referred  to
in  Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

-22-

in  Section  I.B  of
"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the  Loan available  to the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

"Training"  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower  in  connection  with
carrying  out training  activities  under  Part  B  of the  Project,  including  travel  costs
and  per diem  for  local  trainees,  study  tours,  workshops,  conferences,  rental  of
facilities  and  equipment  and  training materials and  related  supplies.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The General Conditions  are  hereby  modified as follows:

In  the  Table  of  Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
(a) 
amount  at the rate  specified in the Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment  Charge shall  accrue  from
a  date  sixty  days  after the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in arrears  on each  Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

"19. 
in the  Loan Agreement  for  the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

28. 

29. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

-23-

6. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term  "Loan  Payment" is  modified to  read  as  follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties
"68. 
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements  or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount  of the  Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end  Fee, the Commitment  Charge, interest at the Default
Interest  Rate  (if any),  any  prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee for  a
Conversion  or  early  termination  of  a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread
Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount
payable  by the  Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified by  deleting the word  "is"  and  inserting
the words  "and  Commitment  Charge are"  after the  word "interest".

