OFFIGIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8558-CO

Loan Agreement

(Second  Programmatic  Sustained Growth  and Income  Convergence
Development  Policy Loan)

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

f4tO/I*I 

/s 

,201(o

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

9VV

.

LOAN  AGREEMENT

and 

141RA  /5 

INTERNATIONAL 

Agreement  dated 
, 201 (,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF  COLOMBIA
("Borrower") 
AND 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the  purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the  Program  (as
defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this Agreement).  The  Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on
the  basis,  inter alia, of (a)  the actions  which the Borrower  has  already taken  under the  Program  and
which  are  described  in  Section  I of  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower's
maintenance  of  an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
therefore  hereby  agree as follows:

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

BANK 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part  of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

2.05. 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

The  Bank  agrees to  lend  to the  Borrower, on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of six  hundred  and  twenty  four  million  two  hundred
thousand  Euros  (E624,200,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program  in
accordance  with  Section  II of Schedule  I to this  Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter of one  percent
(0.25%) of the Loan  amount.  The  Borrower shall  pay the Front-end  Fee not later than sixty
days  after the Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per  annum on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

The  interest payable  by the Borrower  for each  Interest  Period shall  be at a  rate equal  to the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable  by the  Borrower shall  instead  be  calculated  as provided  in  Section  3.02 (e)
of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates  are  March  I and  September  1 in  each  year.

-2-

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in order to facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the  interest  rate  basis
applicable  to:  (A)  all or any portion  of the principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn
and  outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate, or  vice  versa;  or (B)  all  or
any  portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from
a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Reference  Rate  and the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable
Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or
(C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed
Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate
applicable  to  all or any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding by the establishment of an  Interest Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate Collar on
the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion  requested pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  Section  11  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish  to the Bank  such information  relating to the  provisions of this Article I  as the Bank
may, from  time to  time, reasonably  request.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  To  this
end,  and  further to  Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank shall  from  time  to time,  at the  request  of either party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress  achieved  in carrying  out the  Program;

as part of each such  exchange  of views, the  Borrower  shall furnish  to the Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall  reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall promptly  inform the  Bank of any  situation that  would  have the
effect  of materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or  any  action  taken
under the Program  including any action  specified  in  Section  I of Schedule  I to this
Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  a situation  has
arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that the  Program,  or  a  significant  part  of it,  will  be
carried  out.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition of Effectiveness  consists of the  following,  namely  that the Bank
is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out  the  Program  and
with  the adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework.

5.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date  of this  Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister  of Finance  and  Public  Credit.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance  and  Public  Credit
Carrera  8  No.  6 C  38  Bogota  D.C  Piso  30
E-Mail:  Desmin@minhacienda.gov.co
Facsimile:  (571)  350 9344

6.03.  The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
written.

e  A 
E% 

rlQ(e/7& 
&TT 

A  4// 

as  of the  day and  year first  above

REPUBLIC OF  COLOMBIA

-4-

By

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

VIie-i  ADkE  StW 

q,1/64

Title: 

, 

1>,2c 

/  Crd

thorized  Representative

Title:  _ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_

INTERNATIONAL  BA  K FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  A 

DEVELOPMENT

th 

id  Representative

Name:  -4j0A6 6 

//9

Title: 

//de ,A-5//6&7

Y4A,14O

-5-

WITNESSED  BY

Name: 

£OAAvéÍ†k#O

Titie: 

f) 

A 

/A 

o

-6-

SCHEDULE1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  Taken Under the Program

The actions  taken  by the  Borrower  under the Program  include  the  following:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

In  order  to  promote  the  financing  of  projects  under  the  4G  Concession  Program,  the
Borrower  has:  (i)  reduced  restrictions  for  pension  funds  to  invest  in  private  capital
infrastructure  funds;  and (ii)  eased the  requirements  for funding operations  in  international
markets,  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  1385,  dated  and  published  in  the
Official  Gazette  on  June 22, 2015;  and the  Borrower's  Bank  of the  Republic  (Banco de la
Repdblica) Resolution  No. 4,  dated  April  24,  2015.

In  order  to  improve  and  promote  firms'  access  to  credit,  the  Borrower  has:  (i) further
strengthened  the  collateral  registry  by  regulating  the  mechanisms  for  the  execution  of
guarantees,  and  electronically  linking  the  collateral  registry  with  the  existing  vehicle
registry;  and  (ii)  created  a  central  registry  for  electronic  invoices  (Registro de  Facturas
Electr6nicas) which,  among  other  things,  facilitates  the  use  of  invoices  as  collateral,  as
evidenced  by the  Borrower's Decree  No.  1835,  dated  and published  in  the Official  Gazette
on  September  16,  2015,  and  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  1753-2015  (National  Development
Plan  2014-2018),  dated  and published  in the  Official  Gazette  on  June  9,  2015.

In  order  to  continue  fostering  capital  markets  development,  the  Borrower  has:  (i)
established new governing rules for the management  of mutual funds (Fondos de Inversion
Colectiva); and  (ii) set internal  policies,  procedures  and  operating  systems  for the custody
of securities,  as evidenced  by the following  Circulares Externas (CE)  from the  Borrower's
Financial  Superintendence (Superintendencia Financiera de Colombia): CE No.015,  dated
and  published  on June  13,  2014;  CE No.026,  dated and  published  on  September  15,  2014;
CE No.031,  dated  and  published  on November  21,  2014;  and  CE No.  005  of 2015,  dated
and  published  on  March  30,  2015.

information 

responsibilities  and 

In  order to  strengthen  the Public  Employment  Service (PES),  the Borrower  has defined  the
the
institutional  arrangements, 
implementation  of the  PES  management  and  job  placement  tools,  as  evidenced  by  the
Borrower's  Ministry  of Labor Resolution  No.  1397,  dated  April  20, 2015  and  published  in
the  Official  Gazette  on April  27,  2015,  the  Borrower's  PES  Special  Administrative  Unit
(Unidad Administrativa Especial del  Servicio Pzblico de Empleo)  Resolution  No.  129,
dated  March  3,  2015  and  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  March  4,  2015,  the
Borrower's  Ministry  of  Labor  Resolution  No.  3418,  dated  August  14,  2014,  and  the
Borrower's  Ministry of Labor Resolution  No.  2605,  dated June  25,  2014  and  published  in
the  Official  Gazette on July  1, 2015.

requirements 

for 

5. 

In  order to  improve the  formation  of professional  skills, the  Borrower  has:  (i) created  the
national  framework  of  professional  qualifications  and  competencies;  (ii)  established  a
system  of transfers  and  credits connecting  the different  branches  of tertiary  education;  and
(iii)  defined  the  Ministry  of  Education  as  responsible  for  implementing  this  system,  as

-7-

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  1753-2015  (National  Development  Plan  2014-
2018),  dated  and  published  in  the Official  Gazette on  June 9,  2015.

In  order to  improve  inclusive  skills and  income generation  opportunities,  the Borrower  has
established  a special  regime for the administration  of the educational  system for Indigenous
Communities,  including  tertiary  education,  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.
1953,  dated  and published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on October  7,  2014.

In order to  improve the effectiveness  of public  investment  in  innovation, the Borrower  has:
(i)  defined  the  criteria  for  formulation,  selection  and  approval  of  innovation  projects
financed  with  Royalties'  Resources;  and  (ii) created  an  information  platform  to  monitor
projects  financed  by  royalties  (MAPAREGALIAS),  as evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Law
No.  1753-2015  (National  Development  Plan  2014-2018),  dated  and  published  in  the
Official  Gazette  on  June  9,  2015;  the  Borrower's  National  Planning  Department  Accord
No.  0023,  dated June  26,  2014 and  published  in  the Official  Gazette  on  June  27,  2014; the
Borrower's  National  Planning  Department  Accord  No.  0027,  dated  April  30,  2015  and
published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  May  5, 2015;  and  the  Borrower's  National  Planning
Department Accord  No. 0032, dated and published  in the Official Gazette on July 28, 2015.

In order  to  strengthen  the  system  of tax benefits  for  innovation,  the Borrower  has  defined
the  specific  eligible  expenses  that  could  be  granted  as  fiscal  benefits,  including  firm-led
innovation,  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  CONPES  document  No.3834,  dated  July  2,
2015.

In  order  to  improve 
the  coordination  and  allocation  of  resources  for  productive
development,  the  Borrower  has  unified  its  Governance  System  of  Competitiveness  and
Innovation  with  its Governance  System for  Science  Technology  and  Innovation  at national
and  regional  levels,  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  1753-2015  (National
Development  Plan  2014-2018),  dated  and  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  June  9,
2015.

In  order to  prevent new regulations  from  interfering with  competitive practices,  and  in  line
with  best  practices  from  the  Organization  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development
(OECD),  the  Borrower  has  established  procedures  that  require  all  agencies  drafting  new
regulations  that  could  impact  competitive  practices  to  first  consult  with  the  Borrower's
Superintendence  of Industry  and  Commerce,  as  evidenced  by  the Borrower's  Decree No.
1609,  dated  and  published  in  the Official  Gazette  on August  10,  2015.

In  order to  facilitate  international  trade,  the  Borrower  has:  (i) streamlined  the  procedures
for  issuing authorizations  to  Authorized  Economic  Operators  (AEO),  and allowed AEO  to
be  considered  for  streamlined  procedures  to  clear  customs;  and  (ii)  implemented  an
integrated  transit of goods with the  Republic  of Ecuador,  as  evidenced  by the  Borrower's
Decree  No.  1894,  dated  and published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  September  22,  2015;  and
the  Borrower's  Direction  of National  Taxes  and  Customs  (DIAN)  Circular No. 22,  dated
May  28,  2015.

-8-

Section  H. 

Availability  of  Loan  Proceeds

A. 

B. 

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice to  the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan Amounts.  The  Loan  is allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal tranche,  from
which  the  Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to this end  is  set  out in the  table below:

Allocations 

(1) Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the  Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in  Euros)
624,200,000
624,200,000

1. 

I. 

2. 

C. 

Payment  of Front-end  Fee.  No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan  Account  until
the  Bank has received  payment  in full of the Front-end  Fee.

D. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.

No  withdrawal  shall  be made  of the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless the  Bank
is  satisfied:  (a)  with the  Program  being  carried  out by  the  Borrower,  and  (b)  with
the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework.

E. 

Deposits  of Loan  Amounts.  Except  as  the Bank may  otherwise  agree:

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an
account  designated  by the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to the  Bank;  and

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget
management  system,  in  a manner acceptable  to the  Bank.

F. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The Borrower  undertakes that the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  not
be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that  an
amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower shall,  promptly  upon notice from the  Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount
of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  Bank  upon  such  request  shall  be
cancelled.

G. 

Closing  Date.  The Closing  Date  is June 30,  2017.

AIf

-9-

SCHEDULE2

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table sets forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the Loan and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b) the  Installment
Share for each Principal  Payment  Date, such repayable  amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each  March  I and  September  1
Beginning  March  1, 2021  through
September  1, 2049 
On  March  1, 2050 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

1,69%
1,98%

2. 

If the proceeds of the  Loan  have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the  first Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the Borrower  shall  repay  the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as
of such date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling  after the date  of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by the  Bank by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan  withdrawn  within two calendar  months  prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date  following  the date of withdrawal.

-10-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if at any
time the  Bank adopts a  due date billing system  under which  invoices  are  issued  on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made  after the adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date occurring during the Conversion  Period, shall  be  determined  by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i) the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions of this Schedule  shall apply separately to the amount denominated  in each  Loan
Currency,  so  as to produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

-11-

APPENDIX

Section  1. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"4G  Concession  Program"  means  the  Borrower's  concessions  road  program  that  seeks  to
reduce  the  gap  in  infrastructure  and  consolidate  the  national  road  network  through
continuous  connectivity  between  the  centers  of  production  and  consumption,  with  the
major  port  areas  and  border  areas  of the  Borrower's  territory,  as  detailed  in  CONPES
document  No.  3760,  dated August  20, 2013.

"Authorized  Economic  Operators"  or  "AEO"  means  the  individual  or  legal  entity
established  in  the  Borrower's  territory  that,  by  meeting  specific  requirements,  guarantees
secure  foreign  trade  transactions  and  therefore  is  authorized  as  such  by  the  Borrower's
Direction  of National  Taxes and  Customs (DIAN),  as set forth  in article  1 of the Borrower's
Decree  No.  3568,  dated  and published  in the Official  Gazette  on  September  27,  2011.

"CONPES"  means  Consejo Nacional de  Politica Economica y  Social, the  Borrower's
National  Council  for  Economic  and  Social  Policy.

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any  expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for goods  or services  supplied  under a contract  which  any national  or  international
financing  institution or agency other than the  Bank or the  Association has financed
or  agreed to  finance,  or which the  Bank  or the Association  has  financed  or agreed
to  finance  under  another  loan,  credit, or  grant;

for  goods  included 
in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations  in  Statistical Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the  SITC), or
any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated  by  the Bank  by  notice to  the Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

Sub-group 

718.7 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured,
tobacco  refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether  or  not  containing
tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and associated
materials
Pearls,  precious and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked
Nuclear  reactors,  and  parts
thereof, fuel  elements
(cartridges),  non-irradiated,
for  nuclear  reactors

-12-

728.43 

897.3 

728 

897 

971 

Tobacco  processing
machinery
Jewelry  of gold, silver or
platinum  group metals
(except watches  and watch
cases)  and  goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)
Gold,  non-monetary
(excluding  gold  ores and
concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended 
consumption;

for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for 

luxury

for environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the manufacture,  use or  import of which  is
prohibited under the  laws of the  Borrower or international  agreements to which the
Borrower  is  a  party;

on account of any payment  prohibited by a decision  of the United Nations Security
Council  taken  under Chapter VII  of the Charter of the United  Nations; and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate  action  satisfactory to the Bank to address such
practices  when  they occur.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012, with  the  modifications  set  forth  in
Section  11  of this Appendix.

"Governance  System  for  Science  Technology  and  Innovation"  means  the  Borrower's
system  for science technology  and  innovation  (SNCTI,  for its  acronym  in  Spanish),  as  the
same  is  defined  in the  Borrower's  Law  No.  1286,  dated  January  23,  2009,  as  amended  to
the date  of this Agreement.

"Governance  System  of Competitiveness  and  Innovation"  means  the  Borrower's  system
for competitiveness  and  innovation,  as  defined  in  the  Borrower's  Decree No.  1500,  dated
July  13  2012,  as amended to the  date of this Agreement.
"Indigenous  Communities" means the group  or set of families of amerindian  descent in the
Borrower's  territory,  that:  (a)  are  aware  of their  identity  and  share  values,  traits,  habits or
customs  of  their  culture;  and  (b)  posses  their  own  forms  of  governance,  management,
public accountability  or regulatory  systems that distinguish them from other communities.

"Official  Gazette"  means  the  Borrower's Diario Oficial.

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

AW*1

-13-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"Public  Employment  Service  (PES)"  means  the  Borrower's  public  employment  service
established  pursuant  to the  Borrower's  Law No.  1636,  dated  and  published  in  the Official
Gazette  on  June  18,  2013.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to:  (i)  foster
solutions to  develop infrastructure  financing  and increasing  access to finance  for firms;  (ii)
build  productive  skills  and  improving  their allocation;  and  (iii)  strengthen  regulations  that
affect  innovation  and  business  efficiency,  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  letter  dated
October  23,  2015  from  the Borrower  to  the Bank  declaring the  Borrower's commitment  to
the  execution  of the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from the  Bank  in  support  of the
Program  during  its execution.

"Royalties'  Resources"  means  the  economic  compensations  for  the  exploitation  of  non
renewable  natural  ressources.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of
Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the  General  Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby  modified  as  follows:

In the Table  of  Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are  modified  to reflect  the modifications  set  forth  in  the  paragraphs  below.

The last  sentence of paragraph  (a)  of Section  2.03  (relating to Applications for  Withdrawal)
is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections 2.04  (Designated Accounts) and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted  in  their
entirety,  and  the remaining  Sections  in  Article II  are renumbered  accordingly.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee, Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the  rate specified  in  the Loan  Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay 

(b) 
the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a date  sixty
days  after the date of the Loan  Agreement to the respective  dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

-14-

5. 

6. 

7. 

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09  (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are deleted  in their  entirety,  and the  subsequent  Sections  in Article  V
are renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5 above  and
relating  to  Use of Goods, Works and Services) is  deleted in  its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified to  read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
... 
bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures  under  the Loan  until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives to  examine such  records."

8. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall prepare,  or cause to be  prepared,  and furnish
to the  Bank not later than  six months after the Closing Date, a  report of such  scope
and  in  such  detail  as the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on  the  execution  of the
Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of their  respective
obligations  under the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of the  purposes
of the  Loan."

9. 

10. 

11. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as  necessary, to  reflect the  modifications  set  forth  above.

The Appendix  is modified  by  inserting a  new paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering  the  remaining paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement for the  purpose of Section 3.01(b)."
Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of  the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is  modified to  read  as follows:

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any  use to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in  support  of the

"37. 
Program,  other  than to finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

12. 

13. 

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of  the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is  deleted  in its entirety.
In paragraph  48 of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end  Fee" is modified by replacing
the  reference to  Section  3.01  with  Section 3.01  (a).

-15-

14. 

In  paragraph  67 of the Appendix,  the definition  of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified to
read  as  follows:

"67. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but  not  limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

15. 

16. 

In  paragraph  72 of the  Appendix, the definition of "Payment  Date"  is modified by  deleting
the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after  the  word
"interest".

The defined  term  "Project"  in paragraph  75  of the Appendix  is  modified to read "Program"
and  its  definition  is  modified  to read as  follows  (and  all  references  to "Project"  throughout
these General  Conditions  are deemed  to  be  references  to "Program"):

"75. 
which the  Loan  is  made."

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of

