LOAN  NUMBER  8593-CR

Loan Agreement

(Strengthening  Universal  Health Insurance  in  Costa Rica  Program)

REPUBLIC  OF COSTA  RICA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

'F 

\ 

,2016

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement dated 

,2016,  between  the REPUBLIC  OF COSTA
, 
RICA  ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower and  the  Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

-\ 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

1.03. 

This  Agreement  records the  Bank's financing  of a "Program  for Results",  which  provides
financing  to the  Borrower based on  delivered  results agreed  by the  two parties.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of four  hundred  twenty  million  United  States  Dollars
($420,000,000),  as  such  amount  may be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a Currency
Conversion in accordance  with the provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),
to assist  in financing  the program described in  Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Program").

2.02.  The Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.  All  withdrawals  from the Loan  Account  shall be deposited
by the  Bank into an  account specified  by  the Borrower and  acceptable  to the Bank.

2.03.  The Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay  the Front-end  Fee not later than sixty
(60) days after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest  payable  by the Borrower for each Interest Period  shall be at  a rate equal  to the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount of the Loan,  the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest  payable  by  the Borrower shall  instead be  calculated as provided  in  Section  3.02(e)
of the  General Conditions.

-2-

2.06. 

2.07. 

The Payment Dates are  February  15  and  August  15  in  each  year.

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of  the  following  Conversions  of the
terms of the Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent debt  management:

(i) 

(ii) 

a change  of the Loan Currency  of all  or any portion of the principal amount
of the  Loan,  withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to an  Approved  Currency;

a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or any  portion  of
the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a
Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of
the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread  to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the  Variable  Spread,
or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding from a  Variable Rate based  on a Variable  Spread to a Variable
Rate based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and

(iii) 

the setting  of limits  on  the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable
to  all  or any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  on  the Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this Section  that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower declares  its  commitment to the  objectives  of the  Program.  To this  end, the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Program  Implementing  Entity
in  accordance  with the provisions of Article  V of the General  Conditions and the Subsidiary
Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure,  through  the
Program  Implementing  Entity,  that  the  Program  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF  THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that the  Program
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank, the  ability  of

-3-

the  Program  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the  Subsidiary
Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  any  event
specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is continuing  for a period  of sixty
(60) days  after notice  of the event  has been  given by  the  Bank to the  Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  signed  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Program
Implementing  Entity.

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Program  Implementing
Entity  and is  legally binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the Program  Implementing  Entity  in
accordance  with its terms.

5.03 

The legal opinion to be provided by the Borrower,  referred to in Section  9.02 of the General
Conditions,  shall  be  issued  by  the  Borrower's  Attorney  General  (Procurador General de
la Repliblica).

5.04.  Without prejudice  to the  provisions  of the  General Conditions,  the  Effectiveness  Deadline
is the  date  one hundred  eighty  (180)  days  after the  date  of this Agreement,  but in  no  case
later  than  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan,  which  expires  on
September  15,  2017.

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Ministry  of Finance.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministerio  de Hacienda
Calle  1 y  3  Avenida 2
Diagonal  al  Teatro Nacional
San Jos6,  Costa Rica

Facsimile:
(506) 2255-4874

6.03.  The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

-4-

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at 
AV 
year first above  written.

; 

L 

, as of the day and

REPUBLIC  OF COSTA  RICA

Authorized  Representative

~ 

~ 

s.~~-ZQ,

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

A4thorized  Representative

,

a

By

Name:

Title: 

By 

Name:

Title: 

e 

e 

by:

Luis  Guille

re 

ent o  the  Republic  of Costa Rica

-5-

SCHEDULE1

Program Description

The objectives of the Program  are to contribute  to: (i)  improving  the timeliness  and quality

of health  services;  and (ii)  enhancing  the institutional  efficiency  of the  CCSS.

The Program consists of activities  to be  implemented by the Program Implementing  Entity,
which  approved a broad set of initiatives and actions  to strengthen the health insurance - contained
in the  2015-2018  Strategic  Plan and  the Strategic  Agenda for Strengthening  Health  Insurance  -
a
portion  of which  will  be financially  supported  by  the  Loan and  will  allow  for a gradual  change  in
the  Program  Implementing  Entity  in  order to  achieve  sustainable  results  in the  short, medium  and
long term.

The Program focuses  on  three  priority  areas:  (i)  strengthening  the  health  care  model  with
special emphasis  on increasing the impact  of Primary  Health Care  (PHC),  integration of integrated
health  care networks,  and a  more effective  approach  to  prevention,  early  diagnosis,  and  control  of
chronic  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs);  (ii)  improving  institutional  management;  and  (iii)
optimizing financial  management.

The  Program  consists  of  the  following  activities  to  be  implemented  by  the  Program

Implementing Entity:

Part I:  Strengthening the Health Care Model

Boosting  the  scope  and  capacity  of  PHC  facilities  to  prevent  and  control  NCDs,  and
integrating  health  services  across  different  levels  using  international  best  practices,  allowing  for
comprehensive,  timely  treatment and ensuring continuity  of care in the various  levels of care  of the
health insurance  system, through the following  activities:

(a)  modernizing  and  strengthening  the  PHC  network  nationwide  to  improve  the
quality  of  services,  increase  coverage  of the  population,  and  ensuring  that  the
network  has  greater capacity  for prevention,  early  diagnosis,  and  control  of non-
communicable  diseases (NCDs)  and  other conditions  that are  relevant to the  local,
regional,  and  national epidemiological  profile;  and

(b) 

strengthening  the  integration  of PHC  services  into  the  network  of services  at  all
levels of care,  including:  (i) expanding infrastructure  and equipment  at the first and
second  levels  of care;  (ii)  improving  human  resources  training to  better  attend  to
the needs  of patients;  (iii)  upgrading  equipment;  (iv)  updating clinical  guidelines
and pathways,  with  an  emphasis on  chronic conditions  affecting  a large part of the
population;  and  (v)  implementing  new  mechanisms  for  integrating  PHC  with
second  level  services (hospitals)  using international  best practices.

-6-

Part H:  Improving Institutional Management

Strengthening  institutional  capacity  to  better  manage  the  Program Implementing  Entity

in general,  and  the health  insurance  in particular,  including:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

aligning  central  level  management  to  reduce  the  complexity  of  administrative
processes;

reducing  management  in  silos  through  linking  health  care  decisions  with  their
impact on  administrative  and financial  changes  and  nation-wide  objectives;  and
increasing  the  use  and  impact  of household  data  collected  by  the  PHC  teams  by
digitalizing data and linking  it to existing E-Health tools to  generate  big data pools
for directors  and managers  to enable  them to  better allocate  resources  and  monitor
results.

Part III:  Optimizing  Financial Management

Improving  the  quality  of  financial  data for  the  Program  Implementing  Entity's  Senior
Management  and  Board  of  Directors  to  enable  them  to  closely  monitor  actuarial  analysis  and
income/expenditure  trends,  including:

institutional  capacity 

in 

terms  of  financial  and  budgetary

international  best  management  practices 

to  strengthen 

financial

improving 
management;

the 

adopting 
management;  and

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

optimizing  administrative,  logistical  and  financial  processes  and  procedures
supported  by  a  comprehensive  computerized  system that allows  for  consolidated,
real-time  financial  information,  including  optimizing the  units at the central  level.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Program Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Program Fiduciary, Environmental and Social  Systems

Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Article  V of the  General  Conditions,  the  Borrower
shall  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Program  Implementing  Entity  in
accordance  with  financial  management,  procurement  and  environmental  and  social
management  systems  acceptable  to  the  Bank  ("Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental  and
Social  Systems") which  are designed to ensure  that:

1. 

2. 

the  Loan  proceeds  are  used  for their intended  purposes,  with  due  attention  to  the
principles of economy, efficiency,  effectiveness,  transparency,  and  accountability;
and

the actual  and potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of the Program
are identified,  avoided,  minimized, or mitigated, as the case may be, all through an
informed decision-making  process.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Without limitation  on the  provisions  of Part A of this Section,  the Borrower shall cause the
Program  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Program  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Other Program Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

C. 

1 .

Program  Institutions

Without  limitation  on the  generality  of Part A  of this  Section  I, the  Borrower  shall  cause
the  Program  Implementing  Entity  to  operate  and  maintain  the  Program,  during  Program
implementation,  with technical,  environmental  and  social  safeguards,  fiduciary  and  other
Program  related  responsibilities  for  implementing  the  Program,  with  powers,  functions,
capacity,  staffing  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  fulfill  its functions  under  the
Program.

2. 

Subsidiary  Agreement

(a) 

To facilitate the carrying  out of the Program, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Program  Implementing  Entity  under  a  subsidiary
the  Borrower  and  the  Program  Implementing  Entity
agreement  between 
("Subsidiary  Agreement"),  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank,
which  shall include,  inter alia,  the following:
(i) 

the Borrower's  obligation  to make the Loan  available under the Subsidiary
Agreement  as  a  non-reimbursable  transfer  and  denominated  in  U.S.
Dollars;  and

-8-

(ii) 

the  Program  Implementing  Entity's  obligation 
the
pertinent  obligations  set  forth  in  this  Agreement,  as  applicable,  to  said
Program  Implementing  Entity.

to  comply  with 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  manner as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower
and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,
waive  or fail to  enforce the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

3. 

Additional  Program  Implementation  Arrangements

Without  limitation  on  the  generality  of Part  A  of  this Section  I,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
the  Program  Implementing  Entity to  carry  out the  Program  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  and  shall  ensure  that  the  Program  is  not  amended,  revised,  waived,  voided,
suspended,  terminated  or abrogated,  without  the prior  written  consent  of the  Bank.

4. 

Independent  Assessment  or Audit

The  Bank  may,  at  its  discretion  and  if  it  deems  necessary,  from  time  to  time,  request
assessments  or  audits  by  independent  agencies  acceptable  to  the  Bank  to  verify  the  data
supporting  the achievement  of one  or more DLIs.

Section  H. 

Excluded  Activities

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Program  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure  that  the  Program
excludes  any  activities  which:

A. 

B. 

in  the opinion  of the Bank,  are likely  to have  significant  adverse  impacts  that are  sensitive,
diverse,  or unprecedented  on the environment  and/or affected  people;  or

involve  the  procurement  of:  (1)  works,  estimated  to  cost  one  hundred  fifteen  million
Dollars  ($115,000,000)  equivalent  or  more  per  contract;  (2)  goods,  estimated  to  cost
seventy-five  million  Dollars  ($75,000,000)  equivalent  or  more  per  contract;  (3)  non-
consulting  services,  estimated  to  cost  sixty  million  Dollars  ($60,000,000)  equivalent  or
more  per  contract;  or  (4)  consultants'  services,  estimated  to  cost  thirty  million  Dollars
($30,000,000)  equivalent  or more  per contract.

-9-

Section  III. 

Program Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation;  Audits

A. 

Program Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Program  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the
progress  of the  Program  and  prepare  Program  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Section  5.08 of the  General  Conditions.  Each Program  Report shall  cover the period  of
one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after
the end  of the  period covered  by  such report.

B. 

Program Financial Audits

Without limitation  on the  generality  of Section  I.A  of this  Schedule  2 and Section  5.09  of
the General Conditions,  the Borrower shall cause the Program Implementing  Entity to have
the  Financial  Statements  of  the  Program  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  5.09(b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall
cover the period of one fiscal  year of the Program Implementing Entity, or any other period
to  be  agreed  with  the  Bank.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such period  shall
be furnished to the  Bank not later  than  six  (6)  months  after the end of such  period.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article II  of the General  Conditions,  this Section,  and such  additional  instructions as  the
Bank  may  specify  from  time  to  time  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  to  finance  the  Program
Expenditures,  on  the  basis  of  the  results  ("Disbursement  Linked  Results"  or  "DLRs")
achieved  by  the  Program  Implementing  Entity,  as  measured  against  specific  indicators
("Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or  "DLIs");  all  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in paragraph  2
of this  Part  A.

The  following  table  specifies  each  category  of withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
the
(including 
Disbursement  Linked  Results  for each  Category  (as  applicable),  and  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan to  each Category:

the  Disbursement  Linked 

Indicators  as  applicable) 

("Category"), 

Category 
(including  Disbursement 
Linked Indicator 
as applicable) 

(1) DLI #1: 

Percentage  of major surgeries 
from Priority List conducted  in
outpatient  settings according  to 
CCSS  Institutional  Guidelines 

(2)  DLI #2: 

Cumulative  percentage  of 
Target  Population personally
invited to  undergo colon  cancer 
screening  in the five  Priority 
Counties 

(3)  DLI#3: 

Percentage  of individuals 
diagnosed  with  Diabetes  Type
II under Optimal  Clinical 
Control 

(4) DLI#4: 

Pilot project  on integrated 
health  networks  approved  by 
the CCSS  Board  and 
implemented  for a  Selected 
Population  and  Territory and 
evaluated  with  results publicly
disseminated

(5) DLI#5 
Percentage  of total  number  of 
primary  health  care  units with
the  Unique  Digital  Health 
Record e-health  package 

- 10 -

Disbursement 
Linked Result 
Baseline 
(as  applicable) 

18% 

Disbursement 
Linked Result 
(as  applicable) 

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated
(expressed  in
USD)

DLI#1.1:  20% 

DLI#1.2:  40% 

$30,000,000

$30,000,000

0% 

DLI#2.1:  10% 

DLI#2.2:  40% 

$30,000,000

$30,000,000

39% 

DLI#3.1:  41% 

DLI#3.2:  43% 

$30,000,000

$30,000,000

$150,000  for every
0.1%  above  20%
(maximum
$30,000,000)

0%  aove0

0. 1% above  10%
(maximum
$30,000,000)

.0%  aove
.0 1% above  41 %
(maximum
$30,000,000)

$30,000,000

$30,000,000

DLI#4. 1:  Pilot 
project approved

DLI#4.2: 
Evaluation  of pilot
publicly
disseminated

50% 

DLI5.1:  60% 

DLI5.1:  80% 

$30,000,000

$30,000,000

$150,000  for  every
0.1%  over  60%
(maximum
$30,000,000)

(6) DLI#6 
Redesign,  implementation  and 
use  of data collected by the  new 
annual  survey to  measure
impact  of new interventions  to 
improve  patient  satisfaction 

(7)  DLI#7 

Development  and execution  of 
a comprehensive  medium  and 
long-term  plan  to ensure the
financial  sustainability  of the 
CCSS 

- 11 -

DLI#7. 1:  Ten-year 

$20,000,000

$30,000,000

$30,000,000

$20,000,000

$20,000,000

DLI#6.  1:  CCSS 
Board  approval  of
survey
n 
sati 

DLI#6.2:  Report 
on  impact  of
interventions to
improve patient
satisfaction
approved  by  CCSS
Board

investment  plan

ard

DLI#7.2:  Actuarial 
valuation  of health
insurance  study
approved  by CCSS
Board and  publicly
disseminated

DLI#7.3:  Annual 
budget  of CCSS
approved  by  CCSS
Board and  CGR
using Prospective
Budgeting  Tools

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

$420,000,000

B. 

1. 

(a) 

(b) 

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be  made:

from the  Loan  Account  until  the Bank  has  received  payment  in  full of the Front-
end Fee;

for purposes  of Section  2.05  of the General  Conditions,  for payments  for Program
Expenditures  made prior to the date of this Agreement,  except that  withdrawals up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $105,000,000  may  be  made  for  such
payments  made  prior to  this date  but  on  or after twelve  (12)  months  prior  to  the
date of this  Agreement;  and

(c) 

for  any  DLR under  Categories  (1) through  (7),  until  and  unless  the  Borrower  has
caused  the  Program  Implementing  Entity  to  furnish  evidence  satisfactory  to  the

- 12  -

Bank  that  said  DLR  has  been  achieved,  in  accordance  with  the  DLI Achievement
and  Verification  Protocol  set  forth in  Schedule  4 of this  Agreement.

2. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  B. 1(c)  of this  Section:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower may  withdraw  an amount  not to exceed  $105,000,000  as  an advance;

any  further  withdrawals  requested  as  an  advance  shall  be  permitted  only  on  such
terms and  conditions  as  the Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to the  Borrower;

if any  amount  of the  advance  remains  outstanding  by  the  Closing  Date,  and  any
verified  evidence  required  to  be  provided  by  the  Borrower,  through  the  Program
Implementing  Entity,  to  the  Bank  under  Part  B.1(c)  of this  Section  in  relation  to
said amount  has  not been  furnished to  the Bank by  the Closing Date, the  Borrower
shall  refund  such  advance  (or portion  of such  advance  as  determined  by  the Bank
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of paragraph  2(d)  of this  Part  B)  to  the  Bank
promptly  upon  notice  thereof  by  the  Bank.  Except  as  otherwise  agreed  with  the
Borrower, the Bank  shall  cancel  the amount  so refunded;  and

(d) 

if the  Bank  is  not  satisfied  that  any of the  DLRs  under Categories  (1)  through  (7)
has  been achieved,  the  Bank  may,  at  any  time,  by  notice  to the  Borrower,  decide,
in  its  sole  discretion,  to:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

authorize  the  withdrawal  of  such  lesser  amount  of  the  unwithdrawn
proceeds  of the Program  Financing  then  allocated  to  said  Category  for the
Program  which,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  corresponds  to  the  extent  of
achievement  of  said  DLR,  said 
lesser  amount  to  be  calculated  in
accordance  with  the  established  formula  for  each  DLR  under Categories
(1),  (2),  (3),  and  (5);

reallocate  all or  a portion  of the proceeds of the Loan then  allocated  to  said
DLR  to any  other  DLR;  and/or

cancel  all  or  a  portion  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  said
DLR.

The Closing  Date is  April  30,  2022.

3. 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the foregoing  provisions of this Section IV,  if at any time after the Closing
Date  the  Borrower  has  failed  to  provide  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  does  not exceed  the total  amount  of Program Expenditures  paid
by  the  Borrower,  through  the  Program  Implementing  Entity,  exclusive  of  any  such
expenditures  financed  by  any other  financier  or by  the  Bank  or the  Association  under  any
other  loan,  credit or grant,  the Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice  from the  Bank, refund
to  the  Bank such  excess  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance.  The  Bank  shall  cancel
the refunded  amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The following  table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates of the Loan  and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment Share").  If the proceeds of the Loan have been  fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
(a)
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date,  such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

On each  February  15  and  August  15
Beginning  August  15,  2022
through February  15,  2049 

On August  15,  2049 

1.82%

1.72%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan have not  been fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date, the Borrower  shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance as
of such date in  accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling  after  the date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the  Bank by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn  within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on  the  second Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall

- 14  -

be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date following  the  date  of withdrawal.

(b). 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the Bank adopts  a due date  billing system under  which invoices are  issued  on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer  apply to any  withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such
billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance to an Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date occurring during the Conversion  Period,  shall  be determined  by the  Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the  exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply  separately  to the amount  denominated  in  each Loan
Currency,  so  as to produce a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

DLI Achievement  and Verification  Protocol

Scalable 

DLI Evaluation, Achievement  and Verification Protocol

DLI 

Disbursement  Data Source/Agency 

1  Percentage  of 

(Yes/No) 
Yes 

____________

Verification 

Independent 
Verification 
Entity - IVE 
(to  be 
contracted 
before  first 

Procedure

Information  collected
from  each  facility and
aggregated  through
customized  databases.
Data subject to
validation by  the  Health

disbursement)  Care Management

Department.

2  Cumulative 

Yes 

IVE 

- 15  -

Schedule  4

Department  of 
Projected  Health 
Services 
Administrative  Data 
Health  Care 
Management 

Primary Health  Care 
(PHC)  Facility 
Records  Data. 
Health  Statistics 
Department 

major surgeries 
from priority 
list conducted 
in outpatient 
settings 
according  to 
institutional 
guidelines.

percentage  of 
target 
population 
personally 
invited to 
undergo  colon 
cancer 
screening  in 
the five priority 
counties. 

*  Determination  of
total  target
population.
*  Determination  of

*  A  participating

* 

* 

* 

eligible population.
Participating
individuals  are
those  out of eligible
population  that
were  prescribed  a
cancer  screening
test  according  to the
program  schedule.

individual  can only
be  counted  one  time
for being  prescribed
a cancer  screening.
If people
participating  in the
Program for the  first
time  have  the
cancer-screening
test done,  they  will
be  included as  first
round participants.
Indicator  refers to.
the percentage  of
eligible  population
in the  entire area
covered by the
selected Areas de
Salud that have
been personally
invited  to undergo  a
cancer  screening.

-16-

Schedule  4

"Performance 
Evaluation  in 
Delivering  Institutional 
Healthcare  Services" 
conducted  by  the 
Health  Services 
Procurement
Department  under the
Medical  Management
with  Administrative
Data/Health  Services
Procurement
Department, Medical
Management,  CCSS
Pilot Project CCSS 
Task Force Report/ 
Institutional  Planning 
Department, CCSS 

DLI Achievement  and Verification  Protocol

Disbursement  Data Source/Agency 

DLI Evaluation, Achievement  and  erification Protocol
Verification 
Procedure

Scalable 

(fesfiNo)
Yes 

IVE 

Revision  of clinical
records of patients
diagnosed  with  diabetes
Type  II  and  comparison
with national  clinical
guidelines.

No 

IVE 

Design  of pilot project
will  include  the
evaluation  methodology
and  the  final  report  will
follow  the  original
design with  any
adjustments  that  may
have  been  necessary  as
pilot enters  in the
implementation  stage.

Yes 

Implementation 
Reports 
Institutional  Planning 
Department,  CCSS 

IVE 

Project  Management
will  identify  progress
towards  increased
EDUS  coverage.

DLI 

3  Percentage  of 
individuals 
diagnosed  with 
Diabetes  Type 
II  that  are 
under Optimal 
Clinical 
Control. 

4  Pilot  project on 
integrated 
health 
networks 
implemented 
for a Selected 
Population  and 
Territory  and 
evaluated  with 
the results 
publicly
disseminated.
5  Percentage  of 

total  number of 
primary health 
care  units 
(Areas de
Salud) with  the
Unique  Digital
Health  Record
e-health
package
(EDUS).

- 17  -

Schedule  4

DLI Achievement  and Verification  Protocol

DLI 

Disbursement  Data Source/Agency 

(Yes/No) 

DaaSore/gny_eifctonPocdr

Scalable 

DLI Evaluation, Achievement  and Verification  Protocol
Verification 

Procedure

6  Redesign,

implementation
and  use of a
new annual
survey  to
measure
impact of new
interventions  to
improve
patient
satisfaction.

Board 
approval of 
survey 
redesign. 

Report on 
impact of 
interventions to 
improve 
patient 
satisfaction 
completed and 

I  approved.

No 

No 

Board of Directors 
approval 
Institutional  Planning 
Department,  CCSS 

Report furnished  by the 
Institutional  Planning 
Department,  CCSS 

IVE 

IVE 

The Board  of Directors
has  approved  the
redesign  of the  survey
and  its implementation.

The report  on the
impact  of the  patient
satisfaction
interventions is
completed  and  approved
by the  CCSS'  Board of
Directors.

- 18-

Schedule  4

DLI Achievement  and Verification  Protocol

DLI 

Scalable 

Disbursement  Data Source/Agency 

DLI Evaluation, Achievement  and Verification Protocol
Verification 
Procedure

____________ 

(Yes/No)

7  Development
and  execution
ofa
comprehensive
medium- and
long-term  plan
to ensure  the
financial
sustainability
of the  CCSS.

Ten-year 
investment 
master plan 
approved. 

Actuarial 
Valuation of 
Health 
Insurance. 

One annual 
budget 
executed using 
as inputs risk
adjusted
capitations and
DRGs as
inputs.

No 

No 

No 

Financial  Management 
Department,  CCSS 
Institutional  Planning
Department,  CCSS

IVE 

Annual  Budget
Reporting

Financial  Management 
Department,  CCSS 
Institutional  Planning
Department,  CCSS

IVE 

Board of Directors
Approval

Budget  Department 
Institutional  Planning 
Department, CCSS

IVE 

Annual  Budget
Reporting

- 19  -

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

the  Bank's  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Program-for-Results  Financing,"  dated  February  1,
2012,  and revised  July  10,  2015.

"Category"  means a category  set  forth  in  the  table  in Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2 to this
Agreement.

"CCSS" means the  Program  Implementing  Entity,  as defined  below.

"CCSS Board"  means the  Board of Directors  of the  Program  Implementing  Entity,  or any
legal  successor thereto.

"CCSS Institutional  Guidelines"  means  internal clinical  guidelines of CCSS for health care
services  providers,  based  on  guidance  provided  by  its  Health  Care  Management
Department  and on national  and international  evidence.

"CGR"  means the  Borrower's  Office  of the Comptroller General  (Contraloria General de
la Reptiblica), or any legal successor  thereto.

"Disbursement  Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  in  respect  of  a  given  Category,  the
indicator  related  to said Category  as  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked  Result"  or "DLR"  means in  respect of a  given Category,  the result
under  said  Category  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  on the  basis of the  achievement  of which,  the amount  of the Loan  allocated to
said result  may  be withdrawn  in accordance  with  the provisions  of said Section  IV.

"Diagnosis-Related  Groups"  or  "DRGs"  means  a  statistical  system  of  classifying  any
inpatient  stay  into  groups  for  the purposes  of payment.

"General  Conditions"  means the  "International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with the  modifications  set  forth in
Section  II  of this Appendix.

"HPV"  means  human  papillomavirus.

"NCDs"  means  non-communicable  diseases.

"Optimal  Clinical  Control"  means  for  individuals  diagnosed  with  Diabetes  Type  II  an
HBAc I test  score  below  or equal  to  seven  (7)  percent  in the  last year.

"Priority  Counties"  means  the  counties  within  the  Borrower's  territory  identified  by  the
Health Statistics  Department of CCSS as  having the highest incidence rate  of colon cancer.

-20-

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

"Priority  List"  means  the  priority  list  of major  surgeries  and  consists  of varicectomies,
hernias,  salpingectomies,  bone  biopsies, osteo-synthetic  devices removal,  and laparoscopic
cholecystectomies,  which  is  based  on  the  Borrower's  Department  of  Projected  Health
Service  Network data  updated as of May  12,  2015.

"Program  Fiduciary  and  Environmental  and  Social  Systems"  means  the  Borrower's  and
the  Program  Implementing  Entity's  systems  for the  Program  referred  to  in  Section  I.,  Part
A  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

"Program  Implementing  Entity"  means the  Costa Rican  Social  Security  Administration,  an
entity  vested  with  legal personality,  or any  legal  successor thereto.

"Program  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means  the  "Constitutive  Act  of  the  Costa
Rican  Social  Security  Fund",  Law No.  17,  dated  October 22,  1943.

"Prospective  Budgeting  Tools"  means  risk  adjusted capitations  for integrated networks  of
first  and  second  level  of care  and  DRGs  as  inputs  for third  level  hospitals,  using  as  input
the  estimated  risk-adjusted  capitation  by  sex,  age  and  morbidity  for  integrated  first  and
second level  networks.

"Selected  Population  and  Territory"  means  a territorial  area  comprising  first  and  second
level  of care,  based  on  demographic,  socioeconomic  and  epidemiological  parameters,  as
defined  by  the CCSS  Board  and  approved by  the  Bank.

"Selected  Procedures"  means  hip  and  knee replacements  in  all  third  level hospitals.
"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.C.2(a)  of Schedule
2  to this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which the  Borrower  shall  make  the proceeds  of the  Loan
available  to the  Program Implementing  Entity.

"Target  Population"  means  adults  of  ages  50  to  75-years-old  in  the  Borrower's  top  five
priority counties.

"Unique  Digital  Health  Record"  means  software  that  is  a  comprehensive  electronic  and
digital  platform  developed  by  CCSS  for primary  health  care  centers  and  other  outpatient
facilities  to collect  and  pool  in  a  digital  format  big data sets  using clinical  and  health  risk
data  from  individuals  and  households  for  in-patient  facilities  at  the  primary  health  care
level.

Section H. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions are  hereby  modified  as  follows:

1. 

Wherever  used  throughout  the  General  Conditions,  the  term  "the  Project"  is modified  to
read  "the  Program",  the  term  "the  Project  Agreement"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program
Agreement",  the  term  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program
Implementing  Entity",  the  term  "Project  Report"  is  modified  to  read  "Program  Report";
and the term  "Eligible  Expenditures"  is  modified  to  read  "Program  Expenditures".

-21-

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

In  the Table  of  Contents, the references  to Sections,  Section  names and  Section numbers
are modified  to  reflect the  amendments  set  forth below.

Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is deleted in  its entirety,  and the subsequent
Sections  in  Article  II are  renumbered  accordingly.

In  Section  2.02  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.03),  the  heading  "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is  replaced  with  "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the  phrase  "or to request  the Bank  to enter into  a Special  Commitment"  is  deleted.

The  section  originally  numbered  as  Section  2.04,  Designated Accounts  is  deleted  in  its
entirety, and  the subsequent  Sections  in  Article II are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph (a)  of Section  2.03  (originally numbered  as Section  2.05),  Eligible Expenditures
(renamed  "Program  Expenditures"  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of  this  Section  II),  is
modified  to  read:  "(a)  the  payment  is  for  the  financing  of  the  reasonable  cost  of
expenditures  required  for the  Program and  to  be financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan
in  accordance  with  the provisions  of the  Legal  Agreements;".

The last sentence  of Section  2.04  (originally  numbered  as Section  2.06),  Financing Taxes,
is modified  to read:  "To that end,  if the Bank at any time  determines that the amount  of any
such  Tax  is  excessive,  or  that  such  Tax  is  discriminatory  or otherwise  unreasonable,  the
Bank may,  by notice  to the Borrower, exclude  such amount  or such Tax from the Program
Expenditures  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  as  required  to  ensure
consistency  with such  policy of the  Bank."

8. 

Section  2.06  (originally numbered  as  Section  2.08),  Reallocation, is modified  to  read:

"Notwithstanding  any allocation  of an amount  of the Loan  to a withdrawal  category  under
the Loan Agreement,  the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,  reallocate  any other amount
of  the  Loan  to  such  category  if  the  Bank  reasonably  determines  at  any  time  that  such
reallocation  is  appropriate  for the  purposes  of the Program.

9. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to  read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at  the  rate

(a) 
specified  in  the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

(b) 
The Borrower shall  pay the  Bank a commitment  charge  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement  to the respective  dates  on which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the Borrower from
the  Loan  Account  or cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually
in  arrears  on each  Payment  Date."

-22-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

Section  7.01,  Cancellation by  the Borrower, is  modified  to  read:  "The  Borrower  may,  by
notice  to  the Bank, cancel  any amount  of the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance."

Paragraph  (d)  of Section  7.03,  Cancellation by  the  Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted, and  subsequent  paragraphs are  relettered  accordingly.

Section  7.04,  Amounts  Subject to  Special Commitment  not Affected  by  Cancellation or
Suspension by  the  Bank, is  deleted  in  its  entirety,  and  subsequent  Sections  in  Article  VII
and  references  to  such Sections  are  renumbered  accordingly.

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as  necessary,  to reflect  the modifications  set  forth above.

A  new  paragraph  19  is  inserted  with  the  following  definition  of  "Commitment  Charge",
and  the remaining paragraphs  are  renumbered  accordingly:

"19. 
Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

In  the renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of "Front-end Fee"  is  modified by replacing  the reference to  Section 3.01  with Section  3.01
(a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of the term  "Loan Payment"  is  modified  to  read as  follows:

"68. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant to  the  Legal Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including  (but  not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a Conversion  or early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest Rate  Collar,  and  any Unwinding  Amount payable  by  the
Borrower."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge  are"  after the  word  "interest".

Renumbered  paragraph  88  (originally  paragraph  87)  of  the  Appendix,  setting  forth  the
definition of "Special  Commitment"  is deleted in its entirety, and all subsequent paragraphs
are renumbered  accordingly.

