OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8610-ID

Loan Agreement

(Power  Distribution  Development  Program)

between

PT PERUSAHAAN  LISTRIK  NEGARA  (PERSERO)
and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

MAY  20  , 2016

LN  8610-ID 

2 of 23

LOAN  NUMBER  8610-ID

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 
(PERSERO) 

KA- 

20 
("Borrower"  or  "PLN") 

,  2016,  between  PT  PERUSAHAAN  LISTRIK
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR

and 

NEGARA 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").

WHEREAS  by an agreement  (the "Guarantee  Agreement")  between the  Republic of Indonesia
(the "Guarantor")  and the Bank, the Guarantor  has  agreed  to guarantee  the obligations  of the  Borrower
in respect  of the  loan provided  for in  Article  II  of this  Agreement  (the "Loan")  and  to  undertake  such
other obligations  as  set  forth  in the Guarantee  Agreement,

The  Borrower  and the Bank  hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I  - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an  integral
part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have  the

meanings  ascribed to  them  in the General  Conditions  or  in the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

this  Agreement, 

2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or referred  to
in 
the  amount  of  five  hundred  million  United  States  Dollars
(USD  500,000,000),  as  such  amount may be  converted  from  time  to time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 2.08  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to
assist  in  financing  the program  described  in  Schedule  1 to this  Agreement  ("Program").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.  All  withdrawals  from  the Loan Account  shall  be deposited  by
the Bank  into  an  account  specified  by  the Borrower  and  acceptable  to the Bank.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee  not  later  than  sixty
days  after  the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge  payable  by the Borrower  shall be  equal to one quarter  of one percent

(0.25%)  per  annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

LN  8610-ID 

2.05. 

3 of 23

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the Loan,  the  interest  payable  by
the  Borrower during  the  Conversion  Period on  such  amount shall  be  determined  in  accordance
with  the  relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the
foregoing,  if  any amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such
non-payment  continues  for a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the interest  payable  by  the  Borrower
shall  instead  be calculated  as  provided  in Section  3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment Dates are  March  15  and September  15  in  each year.

2.07.  The principal  amount  of the Loan shall  be repaid  in accordance  with the  amortization  schedule

set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to  this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request any  of the  following  Conversions  of the  terms
of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of the  Loan
Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or
unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the  interest  rate  basis
applicable  to:  (A)  all or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to a Fixed  Rate, or vice versa;  or (B)  all or any portion
of the  principal  amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate
based  on a Reference  Rate  and the Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed
Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of
limits on the Variable  Rate or the Reference  Rate applicable  to all  or any portion of the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an
Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that  is  accepted  by
the Bank shall be considered  a "Conversion",  as defined  in the General  Conditions,  and
shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General
Conditions  and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

2.09. 

(a) 

If on  any  given day, the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit  (as  said
terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of this  Section),  the  Borrower
shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  surcharge  at  the  rate  of one  half of one  percent  (0.5%)  per
annum  of the  Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)
of this  Section)  for  each said  day ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge (if
any)  shall  be payable  semi-annually  in arrears  on each  Payment  Date.

(b) 

For purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the meanings  set forth  below:

(i) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount"  means  for  each  day  during  which  the
Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit, the  product  of:  (A)  the
total  amount  of  said  excess;  and  (B)  the  ratio  of  all  (or,  if  the  Bank  so
determines,  a  portion)  of  the  Loan  to  the  aggregate  amount  of  all  (or  the
equivalent portions) of the loans made by the Bank to the Republic of Indonesia
and  to  other  borrowers  guaranteed  by  the  Republic  of Indonesia  that  are  also

LN  8610-ID 

4  of 23

subject  to  an  exposure  surcharge,  as  said  excess  and  ratio  are  reasonably
determined  from  time to time  by the  Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the  Bank's  financial
exposure  to the  Republic  of Indonesia  which,  if  exceeded,  would  subject  the
Loan to the  Exposure  Surcharge,  as  determined  from  time to time by the  Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any given day, the  Bank's total  financial  exposure
to the  Republic  of Indonesia,  as  reasonably  determined  by the Bank.

(ii) 

(iii) 

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Program.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Program  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Program  is
carried  out  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that,  the  Borrower's
Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect
materially  and adversely  the ability of the Borrower to perform  any of its  obligations under  the
Agreement  or the achievement  of objectives  of the  Program.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that,  any  event
specified  in 4.01  of this  Agreement occurs  and is  continuing  for a period  of 30 days  after notice
of the event  has  been given  by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE  V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
Guarantee  Agreement  has  been  executed  on behalf of the Guarantor  and the  Bank.

5.02.  The Additional  Legal  Matter consists  of the  following,  namely, that the Guarantee  Agreement
has been duly  authorized  or ratified  by the Guarantor  and is  legally binding  upon the Guarantor
in  accordance  with its  terms.

5.03.  The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90)  days  after  the date of this  Agreement.

LN  8610-ID 

5 of 23

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  President Director.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Jl. Trunojoyo  Blok M-1/135
Kebayoran  Baru
Jakarta,  12160
Indonesia

6.03.  The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

LN  8610-ID 

6  of 23

AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of Indonesia,  as  of the day  and  year  first  above written.

PT PERUSAHAAN  LI 
NEGARA  (PERSEl 

-

p

By 

*DIREKSI

-

Authoriz  d  Repr 

t;t\  e

Name:  SOFYAN BASIR

Title:  PRESIDENT DIRECTOR OF PT  PLN  (Persero)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Name: 

Title:

Authoriz 

ive

A  -A#v4&

LN  8610-ID 

7 of 23

SCHEDULE  1

Program Description

The  objective  of the  Program  is  to  increase  access  to  electricity  services  and  to  improve  the

efficiency  and  reliability  of their  delivery  in selected  areas  of Indonesia.

The Program  consists  of the following  activities,  which  constitute  the  Borrower's distribution
program  to  be  carried  out  in  Sumatra  in  the  period  between  2015-2019,  as  further  elaborated  in  the
RUPTL  ("Borrower's  power  system  expansion  plan  for  2015-2024"):

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Improved  Access to Electricity.  Expansion of the distribution network with  approximately:  (a)
19,487  Circuit  Kilometers  of MV  and  23,594 Circuit  Kilometers  of LV  distribution  lines;  and
(b)  28,327  transformer  units  with a  total  MVA capacity  of 2,895.

Improved  Quality  of  Service. 
Improving  the  quality  of electricity  service  through,  among
others:  (a)  system reinforcement  and upgrading;  (b)  managing  customer  outage;  (c)  upgrading
of distribution  control centers  to  SCADA  functionality;  and  (d)  completion  of a  GIS database
in  at  least  five  feeders.

Improved  Distribution  Efficiency.  (a)  Expanding,  rehabilitating  and  upgrading  the  distribution
lines  and  substations;  (b)  increasing  the  number  of distribution  transformers  and  thereby
improving  the  LV/MV  ratio  in  the  network;  and  (c)  supporting  improved  network  planning
through  improved  metering and  thereby resulting  in reduction  of distribution  losses.

Increased  Power Consumption.  Carrying out  a program  of activities  aimed  at  increasing  access
to  electricity  services,  improving  quality  of electricity  services  and  improving  efficiency  as
well  as  institutional  capacity of PLN.

Improved  Institutional  Capacity.  Carrying  out  a  program  of activities  to  improve  distribution
system planning  and  budgeting  as  well  as  operational  management.

LN  8610-ID 

8 of 23

SCHEDULE  2

Program Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

Program Fiduciary,  Environmental and Social  Systems

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

Without limitation on the provisions  of Article  V of the General  Conditions,  the Borrower shall
carry  out  the  Program,  or  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out,  in  accordance  with  financial
management,  procurement  and  environmental  and  social  management  systems  acceptable  to
the  Bank  ("Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental  and  Social  Systems")  which  are  designed  to
ensure that:

The  Loan proceeds  are  used  for their  intended  purposes,  with due  attention to the principles  of
economy,  efficiency,  effectiveness,  transparency,  and  accountability;  and

the actual  and potential adverse environmental  and social impacts  of the Program  are identified,
avoided,  minimized,  or mitigated,  as  the case  may be,  all through  an informed decision-making
process.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Without  limitation on the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  carry out the
Program,  or cause the Program to be carried  out, in  accordance  with the provisions  of the Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines.

Other Program Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements

Program  Institutions

Without  limitation  on the generality  of Section  I. A  of this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

Maintain,  at  all  times  during  Program  implementation,  within  the  Borrower's  regular
administrative  system,  implementation  arrangements  (including  the  Directorate  of
Corporate  Planning, the  Directorate  of Finance,  the  Directorate  of Regional  Business
for  Sumatra,  Directorate  of Human  Capital  Management,  Directorate  of Procurement,
SPKK,  SPI,  SHK,  the  Wilayahs  and  Distribution  Units  in  Sumatra),  all  with  staff,
functions  and  resources  satisfactory to the  Bank;

maintain  a  Program  Management  Unit  at  the  Borrower's  headquarters  in  Jakarta,
assigned  with  staff  (including 
technical,  environmental  and  social,  fiduciary,
monitoring  and  evaluation  specialists)  in  adequate  number  and  with  resources  and
functions  satisfactory  to the Bank;  and

LN  8610-ID 

(c) 

9 of 23

ensure  that  Program  Implementation  Units  at  the  Wilayahs  are,  at  all  times  during
Program  implementation,  led  by  a  general  manager  who  is  assisted  by  adequate
professional 
financial
management  specialists),  with  experience  and  qualifications,  functions  and  resources
satisfactory to the  Bank.

staff  (including  procurement 

and  administrative 

and 

2. 

Annual Work Plans

Without  limitation  on  the generality  of Section L.A  of this  Schedule,  the  Borrower shall:

Furnish  to the  Bank  no later  than January  20 in  each  calendar  year,  beginning  in  2017,
the  Annual Work  Plan;  and

thereafter,  ensure the  implementation  of the Annual  Work  Plan in  a  manner  consistent
with the Program Description  in  Schedule  1 of this  Agreement.

3. 

Program  Action  Plan

Without  limitation on the  generality  of Section  L.A  of this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall:

Undertake  the  actions  set  forth  in the  Program  Action  Plan;

except  as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,
the  Program  Action  Plan, or any  provision thereof, and

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and  evaluate,  in
accordance  with guidelines  acceptable  to  the Bank, the implementation  of the  Program
Action  Plan.

Section  II. 

Excluded  Activities

The Borrower  shall  ensure that  the  Program  excludes  any  activities  which:

In  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  are  likely  to  have  significant  adverse  impacts  that  are
sensitive, diverse,  or unprecedented  on the environment  and/or  affected  people;  or

involve  the procurement  of:  (a)  works,  estimated  to  cost  seventy  five  million  United
States  Dollar (USD  75,000,000)  equivalent  or  more  per contract;  (b)  goods,  estimated
to  cost  fifty  million  United  States  Dollar  (USD  50,000,000)  equivalent  or  more  per
contract;  (c)  non-consulting  services,  estimated  to  cost  forty  million  United  States
Dollar  (USD  40,000,000)  equivalent  or  more per contract;  or (d)  consultants'  services,
estimated  to  cost  twenty  million United  States  Dollar  (USD  20,000,000)  equivalent  or
more per contract.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

A. 

B. 

LN  8610-ID 

10  of 23

Section  III. 

Program  Monitoring, Reporting  and  Evaluation;  Audits

A. 

Program Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Program  and  prepare  Program
Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions.  Each
Program  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  quarter,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank not  later  than thirty (30)  days  after  the end of the period covered  by  such report.

B. 

Program Financial Audits

Without  limitation on  the generality  of Section  I.A  of this  Schedule  2  and  Section 5.09  of the
General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  have  the  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance
with  the provisions  of Section 5.09  (b)  of the General Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial
Statements  shall  cover  the period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial
Statements  for each  such  period  shall be  furnished  to the  Bank  not  later  than  six months  after
the  end of such period.

Verification

C. 

1 .

The Borrower  shall  maintain appropriate  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements  for  the
Program  satisfactory  to the  Bank, including  DLI  verification  protocols.  To this  end,  the
Borrower shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Retain  an entity  with  experience,  independence,  and  capacity  and  under  the  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to the  Bank  (Independent  Verification  Agent)  to  verify  the  data
and  other  evidence  supporting  the  achievement  of one or  more  Disbursement  Linked
Results  (DLRs)  as  set  forth  in Schedule  4  to  this Agreement;

not later  than January  31  of each Fiscal  Year  of Program  implementation,  starting  from
January  31,  2017  , cause  the  Independent  Verification  Agent  to undertake  in each  case
a verification  audit  in  accordance  with  verification protocol  agreed  with the  Bank;  and

not  later than  March  31  of each  Fiscal Year  of Program  implementation,  starting  from
March  31,  2017  furnish  to  the  Bank  the  corresponding  report  of  the  Independent
Verification  Agent,  in  form  and substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

2. 

3. 

Without  limitation  to  the  provision  of  paragraph  I  above,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the
Independent  Verification  Agent  to  undertake,  no  later  than  one  month  after  the  date  of this
Agreement  a  verification  audit  to  assess  the  fulfillment  of appropriate  Disbursement  Linked
Results  set out in  Schedule 4 to this  Agreement  in accordance  verification  protocol  agreed with
the  Bank;  and,  no  later  than  two  months  after  the  date  of this  Agreement  furnish  to  the  Bank
the  report  of the  Independent  Verification  Agent,  in  form  and substance  agreed  with the Bank.

For  the  purpose  of  collecting  and  collating  appropriate  data  for  the  above-mentioned
verification  audit(s),  the  Borrower  shall  deploy  and  maintain,  throughout  the  period  of
implementation  of the Program,  staff in adequate  numbers  and  with appropriate  qualifications
and  experience.

LN  8610-ID 

11  of 23

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of  Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section, and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
may  specify  from time to time by  notice to the Borrower  to  finance  the Program  Expenditures,
on  the  basis  of  the  results  ("Disbursement  Linked  Results"  or  "DLRs")  achieved  by  the
Borrower,  as  measured  against  specific  indicators  ("Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or
"DLIs");  as  set forth  in the table of Schedule 4 to this  Agreement,  and  in the table in paragraph
2  of this  Part  A,  respectively.

The  following  table  specifies  each  category  of  withdrawal  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
(including  the Disbursement  Linked  Indicators  as  applicable)  ("Category")  and  the  allocation
of the amounts  of the Loan  to  each Category:

Category 
(including  Disbursement  Linked  Indicator as  applicable) 

(1)  DLI #1:  Number  of new  residential  customers  (households) 

connected

(2)  DLI #2:  Additional  length of MV distribution  lines 

constructed  (Circuit  Kilometers)

(3)  DLI  #3:  Number  of MV  feeder  technical  interruptions  per 

100  Circuit  Kilometers

(4) DLI  #4:  Additional  distribution transformer  units  installed 

(5)  DLI  #5:  Volume  of increased  energy  sales  to residential 

(6)  DLI #6:  Annual  Work Plan  for  FY  2016 approved  by  PLN 

customers  (in GWh)

Board  of Commissioners

(7)  DLI #7:  PLN  has collaborated  with development  partners 
in the recruitment  of an  Independent  Verification  Agent
(8) DLI #8:  Integration  of budgeting with ERP  in all  Program 

Wilayahs  and Distribution Units

(9)  DLI #9:  Submission  of revised  planning  guidelines, 
acceptable to the  Bank, to  the Director  of Regional
Business  for  Sumatra  and the Director's  approval  of the
guidelines

(10)  DLI #10:  Integration  of planning  software  with GIS 

facilities
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount of the  Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in  USD)

145,556,000

55,000,000

60,000,000

65,556,000

105,  556,000

15,000,000

1,000,000

19,000,000

25,000,000

8,332,000

500,000,000

LN  8610-ID 

12  of 23

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1I 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be made:

from  the  Loan  Account  until  the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of the  Front-end
Fee;

for  purposes  of  Section  2.05  of the  General  Conditions,  for  payments  for  Program
Expenditures  made  prior to  the date  of this  Agreement,  except  that withdrawals  up to
an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  one  hundred  million  United  States  Dollars  (USD
100,000,000)  may  be  made  for  such  payments  made  prior  to  this  date but  on  or  after
September  1, 2015;  or

(c) 

for  any  DLR  until  and  unless  the  Borrower  has  furnished  evidence  satisfactory  to  the
Bank that  said DLR  has been  achieved.

2. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Section  IV.B.1(b)  of this  Schedule,  if  the  Bank  is  not
satisfied  that  any  of the  DLR(s)  set  forth  in  Schedule  4  of this  Agreement  has/have  been
achieved  by  the  end  of the  respective  Period  in  which  said  DLR(s)  is/are  set  to  be  achieved
and/or  the Allocated  Amount(s)  of such  DLR(s)  has/have  not  been  fully withdrawn,  the  Bank
may,  at  any time, by  notice  to  the Borrower,  decide,  in  its  sole discretion, to:

Authorize  the withdrawal  of such  lesser  amount  of respective  unwithdrawn  Allocated
Amount(s) 
then  allocated  to  said  DLR(s)  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,
corresponds  to  the extent  of achievement  of said  DLR(s);

withhold  all or a  portion of the proceeds  of the Loan then  allocated to said DLR(s) until
such  DLR(s)  is/are  satisfactorily  met;

reallocate  all or  a portion  of the proceeds  of the Loan  then  allocated  to  said  DLR(s)  to
any other  DLR(s);  and/or

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

cancel  all or  a portion  of the proceeds  of the Loan then allocated  to  said  DLR(s).

The Closing  Date  is  April  30,  2020.

3. 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of this  Section  IV,  if at  any  time  after  the Closing
Date the Borrower  has  failed  to  provide  evidence  satisfactory  to the Bank  that the  Withdrawn
Loan Balance does  not exceed  the total amount of Program Expenditures  paid by the Borrower,
exclusive  of  any  such  expenditures  financed  by  any  other  financier  or  by  the  Bank  or  the
Association  under  any  other  loan,  credit  or  grant,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice
from  the  Bank,  refund  to the  Bank  such  excess  amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance.  The
Bank  shall cancel  the refunded  amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance.

LN  8610-ID 

13  of 23

Section  V. 

Other Undertakings

(a) 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  incur any
debt,  unless  a  reasonable  forecast  of the  revenues  and  expenditures  of the  Borrower
shows  that  the  estimated  net revenues  of the  Borrower  for  each  fiscal  year  during  the
term  of the  debt  shall  be  at  least  1.5  times  the estimated  debt  service  requirements  of
the  Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower, including  the debt to be incurred.

(b) 

For  the purposes  of this  Section:

(i) 

(ii) 

The term  "debt" means  any  indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by  its terms
more than one year  after  the date  on which  it  is  originally  incurred.

Debt  shall  be deemed  to be  incurred:  (A)  under a  loan contract  or agreement or
other  instrument  providing  for such  debt  or for the  modification  of its terms  of
payment  on the  date of such  contract,  agreement  or  instrument;  and  (B)  under
a guarantee  agreement,  on the  date the  agreement  providing  for such  guarantee
has been  entered  into.

(iii) 

The term  "net revenues"  means  the difference  between:

(A) 

(B) 

(A) 

(B) 

the  sum  of revenues  from  all  sources  related  to  operations  and  net
non-operating  income;  and

the  sum  of all  expenses  related  to operations  including  administration,
adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but
excluding  provision  for depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating charges
and  interest and  other charges  on debt.

(iv) 

The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the difference  between:

revenues  from  all sources  other than  those related  to operations;  and

expenses,  including  taxes and payments  in lieu  of taxes, incurred  in the
generation  of revenues  in  (A)  above.

(v) 

(vi) 

The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the  aggregate  amount  of
repayments  (including  sinking  fund payments,  if any) of, and interest  and other
charges  on  debt,  except  for  interest  charges  incurred  in  financing  capital
expenditures  during  construction.

The  term "reasonable  forecast"  means  a  forecast  prepared  by the Borrower  not
earlier  than twelve  (12)  months prior to  the  incurrence  of the debt  in  question,
which  both  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  accept  as  reasonable  and  as  to  which
the Bank  has  notified the Borrower  of its  acceptability,  provided that  no event
has  occurred  since such  notification which  has,  or may reasonably  be  expected
in  the  future  to  have,  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  financial  condition  or
future  operating  results  of the  Borrower.

LN  8610-ID 

14  of 23

(vii)  Whenever  for  the  purposes  of this  Section  it  shall  be  necessary  to  value,  in
terms  of the  currency  of the  Guarantor,  debt payable  in  another  currency,  such
valuation  shall be made  on the  basis  of the prevailing  lawful  rate  of exchange
at  which  such  other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of such  valuation,  obtainable  for
the purposes  of servicing  such debt,  or in  the absence  of such  rate, on the  basis
of a rate  of exchange  acceptable  to  the Bank.

LN  8610-ID 

15  of 23

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1.  The  following  table  sets  forth  the Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the  percentage  of the
total principal  amount of the  Loan payable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").
If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal  Payment  Date, the
principal  amount of the  Loan repayable  by  the Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable
amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this
Schedule,  to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

September  15,  2026 

September  15,  2021 

September  15,  2024 

September  15,  2023 

September  15,  2025 

September  15,  2022 

1 
2  March  15,  2022 
3 
4  March  15,  2023 
5 
6  March  15,  2024 
7 
8  March  15,  2025 
9 
10  March  15,  2026 
11 
12  March  15,  2027 
13  September  15,  2027 
14  March  15,  2028 
15  September  15,  2028 
16  March  15,  2029 
17  September  15,  2029 
18  March  15,  2030 
19  September  15,  2030 
20  March  15,  2031 
21 
22  March  15,  2032 
23  September  15,  2032 
24  March  15,  2033 
25  September  15,  2033 
26  March  15,  2034 
27  September  15,  2034 
28  March  15,  2035 
29  September  15,  2035 
30  March  15,  2036 

September  15,  2031 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)
2.28
2.34
2.40
2.46
2.52
2.58
2.64
2.71
2.78
2.85
2.92
2.99
3.07
3.14
3.22
3.30
3.39
3.47
3.56
3.65
3.74
3.83
3.93
4.02
4.12
4.23
4.33
4.44
4.55
4.54

LN  8610-ID 

16  of 23

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment
Date,  the principal  amount of the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of
such date  in accordance  with paragraph  I  of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on  each
Principal  Payment Date falling after  the date of such  withdrawal  in amounts determined
by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the
numerator  of which  is  the original  Installment  Share specified  in the table  in paragraph
I of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")  and
the denominator  of which  is  the sum  of all  remaining  Original  Installment  Shares  for
Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such  date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this
Schedule,  to which a  Currency Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on
the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be
repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal
Payment  Date  following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if  at  any time
the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under which  invoices  are  issued  on  or  after
the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the  provisions  of such  sub-paragraph  shall  no
longer  apply to any withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of such  billing  system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved  Currency,
the amount so converted  in the  Approved Currency  that is  repayable  on any Principal  Payment
Date occurring  during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be determined  by the Bank  by  multiplying
such amount  in its currency  of denomination  immediately prior to the Conversion by either:  (i)
the  exchange  rate that  reflects  the amounts  of principal  in the Approved  Currency payable  by
the Bank  under the Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank
so determines  in  accordance  with  the Conversion  Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of
the Screen  Rate.

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated  in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions
of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each  Loan  Currency,  so
as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for  each such  amount.

4. 

5. 

LN  8610-ID 

17  of 23

SCHEDULE  4

Disbursement-Linked  Results

DLRs  to be  Achieved  in

September 
2015 - April 
2016 

270 

May  2016 -
December 
2016

60 

FY  2017 

FY  2018 

FY  2019

387 

403 

449

25.055 

5,382 

29.871 

3,032 

656 

5.583 

557 

3.091 

21.12 

28.276 

732 

3.438 

693 

35.897 

37.358 

41.663

1,251 

1,339 

1,380

6.946 

21.08 

14.070 

1,670 

7.849 

975 

7.432 

21.04 

9.761 

3,406 

7.660

21.02

7.893

5,112

16.003 

24.019

1,133 

1,460

14.081 

14.884 

20.939 

24.317 

31.336

DLI# 

1. Number  of new  residential 
customers  (households)  connected
(in thousands)
Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

2.  Additional  length of MV 
distribution lines  constructed  (in
thousand  Circuit Kilometers)
Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

3. Number  of MV  feeder 
interruptions  per  100  Circuit
Kilometers  MV network
Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

4.  Additional distribution 

transformer units  installed

5. Volume  of increased  energy 
sales  to residential  customers  (in
GWh)
Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

14.247 

LN  8610-ID 

18  of 23

6.  Annual Work Plan  for FY 2016  Approval of
the Annual
approved  by  PLN  Board  of 
Work Plan
Commissioners 
15.00
Allocated  Amount (USD  Million) 

An
Independent
Verification
Agent
recruited
1.00

7.  PLN  has  collaborated  with 
development  partners  in the 
recruitment  of an  Independent 
Verification  Agent 

Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

8. Integration  of budgeting  with 
ERP  in  all Program Wilayahs  and 
Distribution Units
Allocated  Amount (USD  Million) 

9.  Submission of revised  planning 
guidelines,  acceptable  to  the 
Bank,  to  the  Director  of Regional 
Business  for Sumatra  and  the 
Director's approval  of the 
guidelines
Allocated  amount  (USD  Million) 

10.  Integration  of planning 
software  with GIS  facilities 

Allocated  Amount  (USD  Million) 

At  least three 
Wilayahs 

The  remaining
four Wilayahs

9.50 

9.50

Approval  by  the

Submission  to 
the  Director of  Director  Regional
Regional 
Business  for 
Sumatra

Business  for
Sumatra

12.50 

12.50

At  least  five
feeders

8.332

LN  8610-ID 

19  of 23

Section  1.  Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"Allocated  Amounts"  means  the  amount  in  United  States  Dollars  allocated  to  each
individual  DLR,  as  such  amount  might  be  increased,  reallocated  and/or  cancelled
(whether partially  or  in  its entirety)  by the  Bank, from  time to  time  as  the case  may be,
in  accordance  with the provisions  of Section IV.B.2  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

"Annual  Work  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  annual  work  plan  and  budget  (Rencana
Keria  &  Anggaran  Perusahaan) for  Sumatra  distribution  program  referred  to  in
Section  I.C.2  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  Bank's  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Program-for-Results  Financing,"  dated  February
1, 2012,  and  revised  July  10,  2015.

"Board  of  Commissioners"  means  a  board  of  commissioners  of  the  PLN,  duly
constituted  in accordance  with the PLN  regulations.

"Borrower's  Legislation"  means  any  laws  and  regulations  governing  the  ownership
and  operations  of the Borrower,  as  any of them  may be amended  or supplemented  from
time to time.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Circuit  Kilometer"  mean  one  kilometer  of  electrical  transmission  or  distribution
circuitry  including  all  necessary  conductors,  insulators  and  supporting  structures
required  to provide  a  complete  circuit  or  double circuit.

"Director  of Regional  Business for  Sumatra"  means  the head  of Directorate  of Regional
Business  for Sumatra.

"Directorate  of Finance"  means the directorate of the Borrower responsible  for  finance,
or any  successor thereto.

"Directorate  of Corporate  Planning"  means  the directorate  of the Borrower  responsible
for  planning,  or  any successor  thereto.

"Directorate  of Human  Capital  Management"  means  the  directorate  of the  Borrower
responsible  for  human  resources  and  environmental  management,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Directorate  of Regional  Business  for  Sumatra"  means the directorate  of the Borrower
responsible  for  regional  business  in  Sumatra,  or any  successor  thereto.

LN 8610-ID 

20  of 23

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

26. 

27. 

"Directorate  of Procurement"  means  the  directorate  of the  Borrower  responsible  for
procurement,  or  any successor  thereto.

"Disbursement  Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  in  respect  of a  given Category,  the
indicator  related  to  said Category as  set  forth  in the table  in Section IV.A.2  of Schedule
2 to  this Agreement.  It also refers  to  each disbursement-linked  indicator  set  forth in the
first  column  of the matrix  set  forth in  Schedule  4  to this  Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked  Result"  or  "DLR"  means  each  of  the  disbursement-linked
results  set  forth  in  Schedule 4  to this  Agreement.

"Distribution  Unit"  means  a PLN's  branch  office responsible  for distribution  system in
a  defined  geographic  areas.

"Enterprise  Resource  Planning"  or "ERP"  means  a  category  of business-management
software  that  an organization  can  use  to collect,  store,  manage  and  interpret  data  from
many business  activities,  including:  planning,  costing, production,  service delivery  and
distribution  and sales.

"Fiscal  Year"  or  "FY"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  commencing  January  I  and
ending  December  31  of the same year.

"General  Conditions"  means 
for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set  forth  in  Section II  of this Appendix.

the  "International  Bank 

20. 

"GIS" means  geographic  information  system.

21. 

"Government  Regulation"  means  a  Peraturan Pemerintah, a  regulation  signed  by  the
President,  and  issued  by the  government,  of the Republic  of Indonesia.

22. 

"GWh"  means  gigawatt hour.

23. 

"Independent  Verification  Agent"  means  the entity referred  to in  Section  III.C. 1(a)  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

24. 

"LV"  means  low  voltage.

25. 

"MV"  means  medium  voltage.

"Program  Action  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  plan  dated  February  18,  2016  and
referred  to  in  Section I.C.3  of Schedule 2  to this  Agreement,  as  may  be amended  from
time to  time with the prior written  agreement  of the Bank.

"Program  Fiduciary  and  Environmental  and  Social  Systems"  means  the  Borrower's
systems  for  the Program  referred  to in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

LN  8610-ID 

21  of 23

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"Program  Management  Unit" means  the Program entity referred  to in Section I.C. 1 (b)
of the Schedule  2  to the  Loan Agreement.

"Program  Implementation  Unit"  means  the  Program  entities  referred  to  Section  I.C. 1
(c)  of the  Schedule  2 to the Loan  Agreement.

"SCADA"  or  "Supervisory  Control  and  Data  Acquisition"  means  a  computer  system
that  monitors  substations,  transformers  and  other  electrical  assets  in  distribution
systems.

"SHK"  means  Satuan Hukum  Korporat a  unit  of the  Borrower  responsible  for  legal
affairs,  or  any successor  thereto.

"SPI" means Satuan Pengawasan Intern a  unit of the Borrower responsible  for  internal
audit, or  any successor  thereto.

"SPKK"  means  Satuan Pengendalian Kineria Korporat a  unit  at  the Borrower's  head
office  that  reports  directly  to the  Borrower's  President  Director  and is  responsible  for
the monitoring and evaluation  of overall corporate  performance,  strategic program,  and
guiding  action  in change  management,  or  any  successor thereto.

34. 

"Wilayah"  means  PLN's  branch  offices 
transmission  and  distribution  in defined  geographic  areas.

that  are  responsible 

for  generation,

Section  II.  Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The  General Conditions  are  hereby  modified  as  follows:

Wherever  used  throughout the General  Conditions,  the  term  "the  Project"  is  modified
to  read  "the  Program",  the  term  "the  Project  Agreement"  is  modified  to  read  "the
Program Agreement",  the  term  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  is  modified  to read "the
Program Implementing  Entity", the term  "Project  Report"  is modified  to read "Program
to  read  "Program
Report";  and 
Expenditures".

the  term  "Eligible  Expenditures" 

is  modified 

In  the  Table  of  Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers  are  modified  to reflect the  amendments  set  forth  below.

Section  2.02,  Special Commitment  by  the  Bank,  is  deleted  in  its  entirety,  and  the
subsequent  Sections  in Article  II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

In  Section  2.02  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.03),  the  heading  "Applications for
is  replaced  with  "Applications  for
Withdrawal  or  /br  Special  Commitment" 
the  Bank  to  enter  into  a  Special
Withdrawal",  and  the  phrase  "or 
Commitment"  is  deleted.

to  request 

LN  8610-ID 

22  of 23

5. 

6. 

7. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

The  section originally  numbered  as  Section 2.04, Designated Accounts  is  deleted  in its
entirety,  and  the subsequent  Sections  in Article  II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph 
(a)  of  Section  2.03  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.05),  Eligible
Expenditures (renamed  "Program  Expenditures"  in accordance  with paragraph  I of this
Section  II),  is modified  to read:  "(a)  the payment  is  for the  financing  of the reasonable
cost of expenditures  required  for the Program  and to  be financed  out  of the proceeds  of
the  Loan  in accordance  with the  provisions  of the  Legal Agreements;".

The  last  sentence  of Section  2.04  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.06),  Financing
Taxes,  is  modified  to  read:  "To  that  end,  if the  Bank  at  any  time  determines  that  the
amount  of any such  Tax  is  excessive,  or  that  such  Tax  is  discriminatory  or otherwise
unreasonable,  the Bank  may, by  notice  to the  Borrower,  exclude  such  amount  or such
Tax  from the  Program Expenditures  to be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan,  as
required  to  ensure consistency  with such policy of the Bank."

8. 

Section  2.06  (originally numbered  as  Section 2.08),  Reallocation, is  modified  to read:

"Notwithstanding  any  allocation  of an  amount  of the  Loan  to  a  withdrawal  category
under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  reallocate  any
other  amount  of the  Loan  to such  category  if  the  Bank  reasonably  determines  at  any
time that  such  reallocation  is  appropriate  for the purposes  of the Program.

9. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The Borrower shall pay the Bank  a  front-end  fee on the Loan amount at the rate

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the  Unwithdrawn
Loan Balance  at the  rate specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the "Commitment Charge").
The Commitment Charge  shall accrue  from  a  date sixty days  after the date  of the Loan
Agreement  to the  respective  dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower
from the  Loan Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable semi-
annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment  Date."

Section  7.01,  Cancellation by  the Borrower, is  modified  to read:  "The  Borrower  may,
by notice  to  the Bank,  cancel any  amount of the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance."

Paragraph  (d)  of Section  7.03,  Cancellation by  the Bank, entitled "Misprocurement",
is  deleted,  and  subsequent  paragraphs  are relettered  accordingly.

Section  7.04, Amounts Subject to  Special Commitment not Affected by  Cancellation or
Suspension by  the Bank,  is  deleted  in  its  entirety,  and  subsequent  Sections  in  Article
VII  and  references  to such  Sections  are  renumbered  accordingly.

LN 8610-ID 

23  of 23

13. 

14. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as  necessary, to  reflect the modifications  set  forth  above.

A  new paragraph  19  is  inserted with the following definition of "Commitment Charge",
and  the remaining  paragraphs  are  renumbered  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for  the purpose of Section  3.01(b)."

