OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8617-KZ

Loan Agreement

(Social Health  Insurance Project)

REPUBLIC  OF KAZAKHSTAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

bQgmJe J 

,201S

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8617-KZ

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement dated W0?m bf 1-, 

("Borrower")  and 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and the Bank hereby agree  as follows:

2016, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as  defined  in the  Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the  meanings  ascribed to  them  in the  General Conditions  or in the  Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions  set forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  eighty  million  Dollars  (USD
80,000,000)  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist in financing  the  project described  in  Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in  accordance  with  Section

IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The Borrower  shall  pay the  Front-end  Fee
not later than  sixty days  after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge payable by the  Borrower shall be equal to  one quarter of

one  percent (0.25%)  per annum on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan, the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-

-2-

payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by the
Borrower shall  instead be calculated as provided  in Section 3.02  (e)  of the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates are  April  15  and October  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower may at  any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii) the  setting of
limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to all or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion requested  pursuant  to  paragraph (a)  of this  Section that is
accepted  by the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the  General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment to the objective of the  Project.  To this end,
all in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  V of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  its  Ministry  of  Health  and  Social
Development  (MoHSD),  with  the  participation  of  the  Social  Health  Insurance
Fund (SHIF)  under the  authority and  purview  of MoHSD.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project is  carried  out in accordance  with the  provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional Event  of Suspension consists  of the following:

insurance  system  (including  specifically 

Any  legislation,  decree  or  regulation  related  to  the  Borrower's  mandatory  social
the  system's  functionality
health 
responsible  for collecting  deductibles  and contributions  and  procuring health  care
provider services)  has been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived  so
as to affect materially  and  adversely:  (i) the carrying  out of the  Project;  and/or (ii)
the ability  of the  Borrower to  perform  any of its obligations  under this Agreement.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

The Borrower  has  formally, through  an order  of the  MoHSD,  established
the  Project  Management  Unit  (PMU),  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

the  POM,  which  shall 

The Borrower, through the MoHSD, has  adopted, to the satisfaction  of the
the  community  monitoring
Bank, 
instrument and the  grievance  redress  mechanism  referred  to in Part 3.C of
the  Project,  and the  financial  management  procedures  for the  Project.

include 

5.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date one  hundred and  eighty (180)  days  after the
date of this Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
11  Pobedy Avenue
Astana 010000
Republic  of Kazakhstan

Telex: 

Facsimile:

265126  (FILIN) 

(7)  (7172)  717785

6.03. 

The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at  AS 

DA L 

2f AS4 

as of the  day and  year first above written.

-5-

REPUBLIC  OF  KAZAKHSTAN

Authorized  Representative

Name:  /3ak 

, 

u2   anov

Title: 

/A 

if 

Jncnce

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:r--M(( 

TO  g0 oyv/4

Title: 

0Atf( 

A rE.

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is to  improve  accessibility,  quality  and  efficiency  of
health  service  delivery,  and  reduce  financial  risks  to  the  population  that  are  caused  by
serious  health problems.

The Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part  1.  Provide support for the  implementation  of the Borrower's  Social  Health Insurance

(SHI)  system

A. 

Establish  and  strengthen  the  organizational  and  institutional  structure  of the  SHI
system through the  provision of advisory services  and capacity  building in support
of the  following  activities:

forecasting  SHI revenues  and  improving the mechanisms for SHI revenue
collection;

planning  the  budget  for  the  SHI  system,  based  on  the  needs  of  the
population;

(iii) 

providing  institutional  support for the operation  of the  SHIF;

(iv) 

improving  health care  benefits packages;  and

(v) 

improving the SHI information technology  system for integration with the
Borrower's  existing e-Health  system.

B. 

Strengthen  the  purchasing  and  payment  arrangements  under  SHI,  through  the
provision  of  advisory  services  and  capacity  building,  to  support  the  design  and
piloting of the  following  reform  activities:

improving  the  purchasing  arrangements  and  provider  payment  methods
for health  services;

strengthening the purchasing  arrangements  for pharmaceuticals  and health
technologies;  and

improving  the  financial  control  mechanisms  and  technical  audits  used
within the  SHI system.

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

-7-

Part 2.  Strengthen  the  delivery  of health  services  to  support  the  implementation  of the

Borrower's SHI  system

A. 

Develop a health  facility network,  involving  the:

(i) 

(ii) 

establishment  of a  public  health  service  to  increase  the  promotion  of a
healthy  lifestyle,  reduce  risk  factors  for  non-communicable  diseases,
strengthen  the  epidemiological  surveillance  system  for  outbreaks,  and
in  public  health  policy  planning  and  health  services
build  capacity 
delivery;

provision  of assistance  to  improve  primary  and  secondary prevention  and
to  strengthen primary  health care services,  with a focus on managing  non-
communicable  diseases  and performance-based  services;

(iii) 

provision  of  support  to  implement  prospective  plans  for  developing  a
health  facility network;  and

(iv) 

strengthening  of the Borrower's  emergency  medical  services.

B. 

Manage  the  quality of health  care services,  involving  the:

(i) 

a  system 
improvement  of  clinical  practice  by  developing 
implementing,  and  monitoring the  introduction  of, clinical  protocols;

for

(ii) 

further development  of health technology  assessments;

(iii) 

expansion  of disease  management programs;  and

(iv) 

improvement  of quality  management  mechanisms  in health  facilities  and
development  of a health  facility accreditation  program.

C. 

Strengthen  human  resources  for  health  care  through  strategic  partnerships,
involving  the:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

improvement  of  the  principles  for  managing  and  financing  medical
science  education;

improvement of the  education  process  in  line with  international  standards
to  advance  the  quality of medical  science  education  for health  workers;

improvement  of the  system  for  independently  assessing  the  knowledge
and skills of graduates of higher medical  science education  institutions and
health workers;  and

-8-

(iv) 

provision  of  support 
management  in health  facilities.

for 

the 

improvement  of  human 

resources

Part 3.  Project Management,  Monitoring and  Evaluation,  and Communications  Strategy

A. 

Provision  of support  for Project management  through:

(i) 

services,  goods
provision  of  advisory 
(equipment  for  the  Project  Management  Unit  (PMU)),  non-consulting
services  and  training;

services,  communications 

(ii) 

carrying out of surveys  for Project monitoring  and  evaluation;  and

(iii) 

financing of Operating  Costs of the  PMU.

B. 

C. 

Provision  of  support  for  information,  education  and  communication  activities
concerning  health  service  delivery  structural  reforms  that  are  supported  by  the
Project.

Provision  of  support  for  the  carrying  out  of  citizen  engagement  activities,
including:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

annual multi-stakeholder  forums  held  to  present  and  receive  feedback  on
the  progress of Project-related  reforms;

implementation  of a  community  monitoring  instrument  to  track  patient
perception  of the  improvements in the  provision of health  services;  and

implementation  of  a  proactive  grievance 
for
addressing  suggestions  and  complaints  from  beneficiaries  and  various
stakeholders.

redress  mechanism 

-9-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  and
except  as the  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,  through MoHSD,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

2. 

(a) 

be responsible  for the overall  implementation  and oversight  of the Project,
including  providing  sectoral  policy  oversight,  stewardship  and  working
level  coordination  with  concerned  governmental  agencies  and  regional
authorities;

the 

that 

ensure 
organizational  arrangements  set  forth 
connection  with  the carrying out  of the  Project;  and

requirements, 

criteria,  policies,  procedures  and
in  the  POM  are  applied  in

not assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive,  or  permit to  be assigned,  amended,
abrogated  or waived, the POM,  or any  provision thereof, without the prior
consent  of the  Bank,  or  in  a  manner  which,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,
may materially  and adversely  affect the  implementation  of the  Project.

The  Borrower,  through  MoHSD,  shall  operate  and  maintain  the  PMU,
throughout  Project  implementation,  under  terms  of reference  and  with
functions,  all acceptable  to the  Bank,  including,  inter alia, responsibility
for:  (i) coordinating the  overall  Project implementation;  (ii)  ensuring  that
the  requirements,  criteria,  policies,  procedures  and  organizational
arrangements 
the  POM  are  applied  during  Project
implementation;  (iii)  carrying  out  the  procurement  process,  financial
management  and preparation of withdrawal  applications under the Project;
and  (iv)  monitoring  and evaluating the progress of Project implementation
in accordance  with  indicators  agreed  upon  with the  Bank.

set  forth 

in 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall,  under  the  purview  of the  MoHSD,  ensure  that  the
is,  throughout  Project  implementation,  adequately  staffed  by
PMU 
personnel with qualifications,  and under terms of reference,  all satisfactory
to  the Bank.

3. 

Not  later than thirty (30)  days  after the  Effective Date, the Borrower  shall, through
an  order  of the  MoHSD,  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain  throughout  Project
implementation,  the  Core Coordination  Team  for this Project, with a composition
(including  staff  of MoHSD,  SHIF  and  PMU,  and,  as  needed,  representatives  of

-10-

other  institutions  and  government  agencies),  resources,  and  terms of reference,  all
satisfactory to the  Bank, to  be responsible  for providing  sectoral  policy  oversight
over,  and  stewardship  of, the  Project,  in  addition  to  working-level  coordination
with  concerned  governmental  agencies and  regional  authorities.

shall  maintain 

through  MoHSD, 

throughout  Project
The  Borrower, 
implementation,  the Joint Commission on Quality of Health Services  (JCQHS) for
this  Project, with a  composition,  resources  and terms  of reference,  all  satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  necessary  for,  inter  alia, developing  recommendations  for  the
improvement  of medical  education  standards,  clinical  protocols,  drug  provision,
and  standards for control  over quality and  accessibility of health  services.

The Borrower shall:  (a)  maintain, throughout Project implementation, the National
Health  Care  Coordination  Council  with  resources  and  terms  of reference,  all
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  necessary  for  carrying  out  the  inter-sectoral  policy
coordination responsibilities  under the Project;  and  (b) ensure that the  said council
comprises  the  representatives  of all  concerned  Borrower  agencies  and  regional
authorities.

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  and  thereafter  operate  and  maintain  throughout
Project  implementation,  SHIF  with  a  composition,  resources  and  terms  of
reference,  all  satisfactory to the  Bank, to carry out the Project.

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

In  the event  that the  Borrower  is  no longer the  sole  shareholder of SHIF:

(a) 

(b) 

the  Borrower,  represented  by  MoHSD,  shall  enter  into  a  subsidiary
agreement  with  SHIF,  under terms  and  conditions  approved  by the  Bank,
which  include:  (i) SHIF's  undertakings  to  participate  with  MoHSD  in
carrying out the Project in accordance  with the relevant provisions set forth
in this  Agreement  and  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  and  (ii)  the  terms
and  conditions  for  SHIF  benefiting  from the  activities  carried  out  under
the  Project;  and

the  Borrower,  represented  by  MoHSD,  shall  exercise  its  rights and  carry
out its  obligations  under the  said  subsidiary  agreement  in  such  manner  as
to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower,  as  represented  by MoHSD,  and
the Bank and to  accomplish the purposes  of the Loan.  Except as the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate
waive,  terminate  or  fail  to  enforce  the  subsidiary  agreement  or any  of its
provisions.

8. 

Not  later than forty-five  (45)  days  after the  Effective  Date, the  Borrower,  through
the  MoHSD,  shall  develop  and  launch,  within  its  existing automated  accounting
software,  a  module  to  generate  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  and  to  capture
the Project's accounts,  all to  the satisfaction  of the Bank.

-ll-

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower,  through  MoHSD,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the
Project and  prepare  Project  Reports  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to  the
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and  shall
be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of the
period covered  by each such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower,  through  MoHSD,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financial management  system  in accordance with  the provisions of Section 5.09 of
the General  Conditions.

Without limitation  on the provisions  of Part A  of this Section, the  Borrower shall,
though  MoHSD,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank as  part  of each  Project  Report,
interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project covering  the  relevant  calendar
quarter, in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank
not later than  six (6)  months after the end  of such  period.

Section HI. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for the  Project and to  be financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be
procured  in  accordance  with the  requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in  Section I
of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in accordance  with

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

-12-

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used  below in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Sections II, III,  IV  and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case  may be.

Particular  Methods of Procurement  of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as otherwise provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following methods, other than International  Competitive  Bidding, may be used for
procurement  of goods and non-consulting  services  for those  contracts  specified in
the Procurement  Plan:  (a) National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to  the additional
provisions  set  forth  in  the  Attachment  to  this  Schedule  2;  (b)  Shopping;  and  (c)
Direct Contracting.

Particular  Methods of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts  which are specified in the
Procurement  Plan:  (a) Selection  under a Fixed  Budget;  (b)  Least  Cost  Selection;
(c)  Selection  based on Consultants'  Qualifications;  (d)  Single-source  Selection  of
consulting  firms  in  compliance  with  paragraph  3.8  of the  Consultant  Guidelines;
and  (e)  Single-source  procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement  Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those contracts  which  shall be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

-13-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions,  this Section, and  such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as revised
from time to  time by the Bank and  as made applicable  to  this Agreement pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in
paragraph  2 below.

The following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed
exclusive  of Taxes

14,678,000 

65,322,000 

100%

100%

Category 

(1) Non-consulting 
services,  consultants'
services,  and Training  for
Part  1 of the  Project
(2)  Goods, non-consulting 
services,  consultants'
services,  and Training  for
Parts  2 and  3 of the
Project,  and Operating
Costs for Part 3 of the
Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 

80,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be
made:

(a) 

from the Loan  Account until the Bank has  received payment  in  full of the
Front-end  Fee;

(b) 

for payments  made prior to  the date of this Agreement;  or

-14-

(c) 

for payments  under Category  (1) for Part  1 of the Project,  unless and  until
the  Borrower  has  furnished  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the
Borrower  has  formally  established  SHIF  as  provided  in  Section  I.A.6  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date  is June 30, 2021.

-15-

Attachment
to
SCHEDULE  2

The  procurement  procedures to  be followed  for National  Competitive Bidding  shall be the
tender procedure  set forth in the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan  on Public Procurement
No.  434-V,  dated  December  4,  2015;  provided,  however,  that  such  procedures  shall  be
subject  to  the  provisions  of Section  I and  Paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and the  following additional  provisions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Eligibility:  The eligibility  of bidders to participate  in a procurement process  and to
be  awarded  a  Bank-financed  contract  shall  be  as  defined  under  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder  shall  be
declared  ineligible  for contracts financed  by the  Bank for reasons  other  than those
provided  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines.  Foreign  bidders  shall  be
allowed  to  participate  in National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures,  and  shall  not
be  obligated  to  partner with  local bidders  in  order to  participate  in a  procurement
process.

Registration:  Bidding  shall  not  be  restricted  to  pre-registered  firms,  and  foreign
bidders shall not be required to  be registered  with local  authorities as a prerequisite
for submitting bids.

Preferences:  No  preference  of any  kind  shall  be  applied  in  bid  evaluation  on the
basis  of bidder nationality; origin of goods,  services or labor;  local content;  citizen
degree  of ownership;  and/or any other preferential  programs.

Bidding  Documents:  Procuring  entities  shall use  the  appropriate  standard bidding
documents,  including contractual  provisions,  satisfactory to  the Bank.

Cost  Estimates:  Cost  estimates  shall  be  confidential  and  shall  not be  disclosed  to
prospective  bidders.

Bid  Validity:  An  extension  of  bid  validity,  if  justified  by  exceptional
circumstances,  may be  requested  in writing  from all bidders  before  the expiration
date  and  for  a  minimum  period  required  to  complete  the  evaluation  or  award  a
contract,  provided  that  such  extension  shall  cover  only  the  minimum  period
required to complete  the evaluation and/or award a contract, but not to exceed four
(4)  weeks.  No  further  extensions  shall  be  requested  without  the  prior  written
concurrence of the  Bank.

(g) 

Bid Submission  and Bid Opening:  Prospective bidders shall be given at least thirty
(30)  days  from  the  date  of  publication  of  the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of
availability  of the  bidding  documents,  whichever  is  later,  to  prepare  and  submit
bids.  Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public  immediately  after  the  deadline  for  their

-16-

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

(k) 

(1) 

submission.  A  copy  of the bid  opening minutes  shall  be promptly  provided  to all
bidders  who  submitted  bids,  and  to  the  Bank  with  respect to  contracts  subject to
the Bank's prior  review.

Qualification:  Qualification  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding
documents.  All criteria so specified,  and  only such specified  criteria, shall be used
to  determine  whether  a  bidder  is  qualified.  Qualification  shall  be  assessed  on  a
"pass  or fail"  basis,  and  merit  points  shall  not be used.  Such  assessment  shall  be
based  entirely  upon the  bidder's  or  prospective  bidder's  capability  and  resources
to  effectively  perform  the  contract,  taking  into  account objective  and  measurable
factors,  including:  (i)  relevant  general  and  specific  experience,  and  satisfactory
past  performance  and  successful  completion  of  similar  contracts  over  a  given
period;  (ii)  financial  position;  and  where  relevant  (iii)  capability  of construction
and/or manufacturing  facilities.

Bid  Evaluation:  Evaluation  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding
documents.  Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the quantifiable
criteria  declared  in  the  bidding  documents.  Evaluation  criteria  other  than  price
shall  be  quantified  in  monetary  terms.  Merit  points  and  bracketing  shall  not  be
used,  and  no  minimum  point  or  percentage  value  shall  be  assigned  to  the
significance  of price,  in bid evaluation. Bidders shall not be eliminated  on the basis
of  minor,  nonmaterial  deviations.  The  procuring  entity  shall  ask  bidders  for
clarifications  needed  to  evaluate their  bids,  but shall  not  ask  or permit  bidders  to
change  the  substance  or price  of their bids after the bid opening.

Contracts shall  be awarded  to the  qualified bidder whose bid has  been determined:
(i) to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding  documents;  and  (ii)  to  offer  the
lowest-evaluated  cost.  No negotiation  as to  the price  or substance  of the  bid shall
take place.

Rejection  of Bids  and  Re-Bidding:  No  bids  shall be  rejected  solely  because they
fall  below or  exceed  the  estimated  cost or outside  of a  range  or  "bracket"  of bid
values. All  bids  (including  in the  case  when  less than two  bids  are received)  shall
not be rejected,  the  procurement  process  shall not be  cancelled,  and new bids shall
not be  solicited  without the Bank's  prior written  concurrence.

Guarantees:  Bid  and  contract  guarantees  shall  be  in  the  format  and  have  the
required  period  of  validity  specified  in  the  bidding  documents  referred  to  in
paragraph  (d)  above.  If required, bid security shall  be expressed as a fixed amount
and  shall  not  exceed  two  percent  (2%)  of the  estimated  cost of the  contract.  No
advance  payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment
guarantee.

(in) 

Confidentiality:  The  process  of  bid  evaluation  shall  be  confidential  until  the
publication  of contract award.

-17-

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

(q) 

Electronic  Procurement  Systems:  Electronic  procurement  systems  may be  used,
provided  that  the  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  adequacy  of the  systems,  including
inter  alia,  that  the  system  is  secure,  maintains  the  integrity,  confidentiality,  and
authenticity  of bids  submitted.

In  accordance  with  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  each
Fraud  and  Corruption: 
bidding  document  and  contract  shall  include  provisions  stating the  Bank's policy
to  sanction  firms  or  individuals,  found  to  have  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,
collusive,  or obstructive  practices  as defined  in the  Procurement  Guidelines.

Inspection  and Audit Rights:  In accordance  with the Procurement  Guidelines,  each
bidding  document  and  contract  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
provide  that  bidders,  suppliers,  contractors  and  their  subcontractors,  agents,
personnel,  consultants,  service  providers,  or  suppliers  shall  permit  the  Bank  to
inspect all  accounts,  records  and  other  documents  relating  to  the  bid  submission
and  performance  of the  contract  and to  have  said  accounts and  records  audited  by
auditors  appointed  by the  Bank.  Acts  intended to  materially  impede  the  exercise
of  the  Bank's  inspection  and  audit  rights  provided  for  in  the  Procurement
Guidelines  constitute  an  obstructive  practice  as  defined  in  the  Procurement
Guidelines.

Publication  of  the  Award  of  Contract:  The  procuring  entity  shall  publish  the
following  information  on  contract award  in a  free  and  open  access  website  or on
another means  of publication  acceptable  to the  Bank:  (i) name of each bidder who
submitted a bid;  (ii)  bid prices  as read  out at bid opening;  (iii)  name and  evaluated
price of each bid that  was evaluated;  (iv)  name of bidders whose bids were rejected
and  the  reasons  for their  rejection;  and  (v)  name  of the  winning  bidder,  price  it
offered as well  as the  duration and  summary  scope of the  contract awarded.

-18-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal  amount  of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date  shall be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first Principal
Payment Date; by (b)  the  Installment  Share for each Principal  Payment Date, such
repayable  amount to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred to
in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule, to which  a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each  April  15  and October  15

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

Beginning October  15,  2021 
through  April  15,  2031

5%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have  not been  fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds  of the Loan  have been withdrawn  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to  which a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan withdrawn  within two calendar months prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as

-19-

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal  and  shall  be repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due  date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such  sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the  adoption of such  billing  system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that is
repayable  on any Principal Payment Date occurring  during the  Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to the Conversion by either:  (i) the  exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component  of the Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is denominated  in more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the  amount  denominated
in each Loan  Currency, so  as to  produce  a separate amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

4. 

5. 

-20-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by  IBRD Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January 2011.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011  (revised  July  2014).

"Core  Coordination  Team"  means  the  core  coordination  team  for  the  Project,
referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,  or any  successor  or
successors  thereto,  acceptable to  the Bank.

"e-Health  system"  is the  system defined  in the Ministry  of Health Order No.  498,
dated  September  3, 2013,  titled  "On  approval  of the  Concept  of electronic  health
development  of the Republic  of Kazakhstan  for 2013-2020".

"General  Conditions"  means  the  'International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans',  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"Joint  Commission  on Quality  of Health  Services"  or "JCQHS" means the  Joint
Commission  on  Quality  of Health  Services,  established  pursuant  to the  MoHSD
Order  No.  926, titled,  "On  establishment  of the  Joint  Commission  on Quality  of
Health  Services",  dated  November  30,  2015,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.4  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement,  or any  successor  or successors  thereto,  acceptable
to the  Bank.

"Mandatory  Social Health Insurance  Law"  or "MSHI Law" means the Borrower's
Law No.  405-V  3PK, dated  November  16,  2015,  and  titled "On  Mandatory  Social
Health  Insurance",  which  sets  forth  the  Borrower's  system  of mandatory  social
health insurance.

"Ministry  of Finance"  means  the  Ministry  of Finance  of the  Borrower  or  any
successor  or successors  thereto.

"Ministry of Health and  Social Development"  or "MoHSD"  means the Ministry of
Health  and  Social  Development  of the  Borrower  or any  successor  or  successors
thereto.

-21-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"National  Health Care Coordination  Council"  means the government-level  policy
council,  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.5  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  or  any
successor  or successors  thereto, acceptable  to  the Bank.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  operating  costs  directly  incurred  by the  MoHSD  in
carrying  out  Project  implementation,  management  and  monitoring,  including the
following, all based on periodic  budgets acceptable  to the  Bank:  (a) PMU  staffing
costs (which  shall not be considered  as advisory  services  under Part 3.A (i) of the
Project);  (b)  training,  conferences,  study  tours  and  seminars  for  PMU  staff;  (c)
dissemination  of Project related information;  (d) office  rent and  utilities;  (e)  office
equipment  insurance,  maintenance  and  repair;  (f) vehicle  maintenance  and  repair;
travel;  (h)  security;  (i) communication;  (j)  bank  charges;  and  (k)  other
(g) 
miscellaneous  costs directly  associated  with the  Project.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods, Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated January 2011  (revised July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the Borrower's procurement  plan for the  Project, dated
March  24,  2016,  and  referred to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines
and paragraph  1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the same shall be updated from
time to  time  in accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Management  Unit"  or  "PMU"  means  the  Project  management  unit,
referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  (a)  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  or  any  successor
or  successors  thereto, acceptable  to  the Bank.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  or  "POM"  means  the  operational  manual  for the
Project acceptable  to the  Bank, outlining, inter alia, the institutional, reporting and
oversight, disbursement,  procurement, and  environmental  and  social  management
arrangements  for  the  implementation  of the  Project,  including  the  community
monitoring instrument  and the grievance  redress mechanism  referred to  in Part 3.C
(ii)  and  (iii)  of  the  Project,  and  the  financial  management  procedures  for  the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with  approval of the Bank,
and  such term  includes any schedules  to  the POM.

"Social  Health Insurance"  or "SHI" means the Borrower's  mandatory  social health
insurance  created  pursuant to  the MSHI Law.

"Social  Health  Insurance  Fund"  or  "SHIF"  means  the  nonprofit,  joint-stock
company  referred  to  in  the  MSHI  Law  and  Section  I.A.6  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any  successor  or successors  thereto, acceptable  to  the Bank.

services)
"Training"  means  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  consultants' 
incurred for Project-related  study tours, training courses, seminars,  workshops and

-22-

other training  activities, not  included under goods  or service  providers'  contracts,
including  costs  of (a) training  materials,  (b)  training related  space  and  equipment
rental,  (c)  travel,  accommodation  and per diem costs of trainees  and  trainers,  (d)
trainers'  fees,  and  (e)  other  training  related  miscellaneous  costs,  all  based  on  an
annual budget agreed  with the  Bank.

Section  H. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions are  hereby modified  as follows:

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

In  the  Table  of  Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers  are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
(a) 
amount  at the rate  specified in the Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at the  rate  specified  in the  Loan  Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from
a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in arrears  on each Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

"19. 
in the Loan  Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified to  read  as follows:

-23-

"Loan  Payment" means  any  amount  payable  by the  Loan  Parties
"68. 
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements  or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default
Interest Rate  (if any), any  prepayment  premium,  any transaction  fee  for a
Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread
Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest Rate  Collar, and  any  Unwinding Amount
payable  by the  Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified by  deleting the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge are"  after the word  "interest".

