OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8626-AO

Loan Agreement

(Smallholder  Agriculture Development  and  Commercialization  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF ANGOLA

between

and

Dated September  30,  2016

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

LOAN  NUMBER  8626-AO

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  September  30,  2016,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  ANGOLA
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

and 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the Appendix  to this  Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used  in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the General  Conditions or  in the Appendix
to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

in 

to 

this  Agreement, 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the Borrower,  on the  terms  and conditions  set  forth or
the  amount  of  seventy  million  Dollars
referred 
($70,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the project  described  in  Schedule  I to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with  Section

IV  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal to  one quarter of

one percent  (0.25%)  per annum on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal to the Reference  Rate  for the  Loan Currency  plus the Fixed  Spread; provided,
that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
the  interest payable  by the Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period on such  amount
shall  be  determined in  accordance  with  the relevant  provisions of Article  IV  of the
General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment
continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower
in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
shall 
Conditions.

instead  be  calculated  as  provided 

-2-

2.06. 

The  Payment Dates  are  April  I and  October  I each  year.

2.07. 

The principal  amount of the Loan  shall  be repaid  in  accordance  with the provisions
of Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

interest  rate  basis  applicable 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to:
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
(A)  all  or  any  portion  of the principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all  or any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or  vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  based on a Variable
Spread  to  a Variable  Rate based on a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution  Date  for an Interest  Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from the  Loan Account  and pay  to  itself the  amounts
required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05(c)
of the General  Conditions  up to  the amount allocated from time  to time for
the  purpose  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower declares  its commitment to the objectives  of the Project. To this end,
the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  V  of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall

ensure that the  Project is carried  out  in  accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule
2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV -EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The Borrower  has adopted a Project  Implementation  Manual  acceptable  to
the Bank.

The  Borrower has recruited  a project  coordinator, a financial  management
for  the  PIU,  each  with
specialist,  and  a  procurement  specialist 
qualifications,  experience  and  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
and  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  III  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

4.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  minister  responsible  for finance.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Minist6rio  das  Finanqas
Largo  da  Mutamba
Luanda, Angola

Facsimile:

+244  222  706  002/3

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Luanda, Republic  of Angola,  as  of the  day  and  year  first  above

written.

REPUBLIC  OF  ANGOLA

-4-

By:

By:

H.E.  Augusto  Archer  Mangueira
Minister of Finance

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Clara Ana Coutinho  De Sousa
Country Manager for Angola
Africa Region

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  increase  smallholder  agriculture  productivity,

production  and  marketing  for selected  crops  in the  Project areas.

The  Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part A.  Capacity  Building  and Institutional Development

1. 

2. 

3. 

1 .

2. 

farmer 

supporting 

the  establishment  of  smallholder 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of smallholder  farmers  and  farmers'  organizations  in
including:
through 
critical  aspects  of  agriculture 
farmers'  organizations;
(a) 
(b) strengthening  the  knowledge  of farmers  on  agricultural  practices,  technology,
inputs  and  marketing;  (c)  strengthening  the  functional  literacy  and  numeracy  of
improving  soil  fertility  and
farmers;  (d) 
integrated  nutrient  management;  (f)  promoting  conservation  agriculture;  and
(g)  building  the  capacity  of relevant  government  staff at  the  municipal  level  to
implement  a  farmer  field  schools program.

improving  household  nutrition;  (e) 

field  schools, 

(a)  Strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of local,  provincial,  and  national  units
of  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  in  the  areas  of  irrigation,  extension,  market
information,  statistics  and  policy  analysis  to  improve  provision  of  services  to
smallholder  farmers  at  the  farm  level  investments;  and  (b)  rehabilitating  and
constructing  agricultural  extension  facilities  at  the  local  level  of the  Ministry  of
Agriculture,  including  offices and  residential  complexes  for  agricultural  extension
staff.

Strengthening  the  capacity  of agricultural  research  systems  to  enhance  access  to
innovations  and  technologies  for  increasing  farm  productivity  and  production,
including:  (a)  supporting  the  multiplication  of  seeds  and  planting  material;
improving  soil
technology  packages  for  selected  crops;  (c) 
(b)  developing 
diagnostic  services;  (d) building  the technical  capacity  of the national  research  and
extension  system;  and  (e)  increased  field  testing  and  demonstration  of improved
technologies.

Part B.  Support for Increased  Production and  Commercialization

Providing  support  in  preparing  proposals  for  Subprojects  and  in  implementing
selected  Subprojects  under  Part  B.2  of the Project.

Carrying  out  Subprojects  in  Participating  Provinces,  and  providing  Matching
Grants  to  Beneficiaries  for  carrying  out  said  Subprojects,  in the  following  areas:
(a)  rehabilitation  and construction  of small  scale  irrigation  and  drainage  schemes;

-6-

(b)  agricultural  production  and  productivity  improvements;  and  (c)  post-harvest
management  and  value  addition.

Part C. Project  Management,  Monitoring  and Evaluation

1. 

(a) 

the  capacity  of  the  PlU 

Strengthening 
for  Project  management,
coordination,  monitoring  and evaluation, including  fiduciary  (i.e.  financial
and  procurement  management),  environmental,  and  social  safeguards
compliance,  audits  and reporting  support;  and

(b) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of the  PPIUs  to  assist  in Project  management,
coordination,  monitoring  and evaluation  at  the  provincial  level,  including
fiduciary  (i.e.  financial  and  procurement  management),  environmental,
and  social  safeguards  compliance, and  reporting.

2. 

Establishing and  implementing a monitoring  and evaluation system  for the Project,
including  establishing  a management  information  system  within the  PIU.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower's  Ministry  of Agriculture  shall  have  the  overall  responsibility  for
the  Project.

2. 

Project Coordination Committee

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower, through  its Ministry  of Agriculture,  shall  establish, not later
than  six  (6)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  and  thereafter  maintain,
throughout  the  implementation  of the  Project,  a  coordination  committee
("Project  Coordination  Committee"  or  "PCC"),  with  a  composition,
mandate,  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  which  shall  be
chaired  by  the  Minister of Agriculture.

Without  limitation  to  sub-paragraph  (a)  immediately above,  the PCC shall
be responsible for:  (i) providing  strategic  guidance  and oversight  to ensure
prompt  and  efficient  implementation  of the  Project;  (ii)  promoting  inter-
ministerial  coordination;  and  (iii)  approving  annual  work  plans  and
budgets  and  annual  reports  prepared by the  PIU,  all  in accordance  with the
provisions  of the  Project  Implementation  Manual.

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Effective  Date  and  thereafter  maintain,  throughout  the  implementation  of
the  Project,  an  implementation  sub-committee  ("Project  Implementation
Sub-Committee"  or "PISC") under the PCC, with a composition, mandate,
and  resources  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

Without  limitation  to sub-paragraph  (a) immediately  above,  the PISC shall
be responsible for:  (i) facilitating Project-related  decisions and procedures;
(ii) approving  Subprojects  requiring  national  level  decision-making;  and
(iii)  proposing  annual  work  plans  and  budgets  and  submitting  annual
reports  to  the  PCC,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Project
Implementation  Manual.

3. 

Project Implementation  Sub-Committee

-8-

4. 

Project  Implementation  Unit

5. 

Provincial  Project  Coordination Committees

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Effective  Date, and thereafter  maintain,  throughout  the implementation  of
the  Project,  a project  implementation  unit ("Project  Implementation  Unit"
or "PlU") within  ADI,  with  functions,  staffing  and  resources  satisfactory
to  the  Bank.

responsible 

Without  limitation  to  sub-paragraph  (a) immediately  above,  the  PIU  shall
for  day-to-day  administration  of  overall  planning,
be 
coordination,  the  technical,  fiduciary  (i.e.  procurement  and  financial
compliance,
and 
management), 
monitoring,  evaluation,  reporting  and  communication  of  the  activities
under the  Project,  all  in accordance  with  the provisions of this  Agreement
and  the Project  Implementation  Manual.

environmental 

safeguards 

social 

Without  limitation  to sub-paragraph  (b)  immediately  above,  the  PIU shall
be  responsible  for  requesting  the  Bank's  prior  review  of all  Subprojects
considered  to  be  financed  by  a  Matching  Grant that  exceeds  the  amount
imposed  under Section  I.E.2(b)  of this  Schedule.

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Effective  Date, and thereafter  maintain,  throughout  the implementation  of
for  each  of  the
the  Project,  a  provincial  coordination  committee 
Participating  Provinces  ("Provincial  Project  Coordination  Committee"  or
"PPCC"), with  a  composition,  mandate,  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.  Each  PPCC  shall  be  chaired  by  the  provincial  vice-governor
responsible  for economic  development  of the corresponding  Participating
Province.

Without  limitation  to  sub-paragraph  (a)  immediately  above,  each  PPCC
shall  be  responsible  for  providing  strategic  guidance  and  oversight  to
ensure prompt and  efficient  implementation of the Project at the provincial
level,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Project  Implementation
Manual.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

6. 

Provincial  Project  Implementation  Sub-Committees

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Effective  Date,  and thereafter  maintain,  throughout the  implementation  of
the  Project,  a  provincial  implementation  sub-committee  for  each  of the
Implementation  Sub-
("Provincial  Project 
Participating  Provinces 

7. 

Provincial Project Implementation  Units

-9-

Committee"  or  "PPISC")  under 
composition,  mandate,  and  resources  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

the  corresponding  PPCC,  with  a

Without  limitation  to  sub-paragraph  (a)  immediately  above,  each  PPISC
shall  be  responsible  for:  (i)  facilitating  Project-related  decisions  and
procedures  at  the  provincial  level;  (ii)  approving  Subprojects  requiring
provincial  level  decision-making;  (iii)  recommending  for  approval  at  the
national  level  Subprojects  that  require  national  level  decision-making;
(iv)  approving  annual  work  plans  and  budgets  at  the  provincial  level
the  PIU;  and
prepared  by 
(v)  approving  annual  reports  at  the  provincial  level  prepared  by  the
relevant  PPIU  for  submission  to  the  PIU,  all  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Project  Implementation  Manual.

the  relevant  PPIU 

for  submission 

to 

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Effective  Date, and thereafter  maintain,  throughout  the implementation  of
the  Project,  a  provincial  project  implementation  unit  for  each  of  the
Participating  Provinces  ("Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit"  or
"PPIU")  within  the  corresponding  provincial  offices  of  ADI,  with
functions,  staffing  and  resources  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Without  limitation  to  sub-paragraph  (a)  immediately  above,  each  PPIU
shall assist  the PIU  in the administration  of overall  planning, coordination,
the  technical,  fiduciary  (i.e.  procurement  and  financial  management),
environmental  and  social  safeguards  compliance,  monitoring,  evaluation,
reporting  and  communication  of  the  activities  under  the  Project  in  the
the
in  accordance  with 
corresponding  Participating  Province,  all 
provisions  of this  Agreement  and  the Project  Implementation  Manual.

The  Borrower  shall  recruit  for each  PPIU,  not  later than  three  (3) months
after  the  Effective  Date,  a provincial  project  coordinator,  accountant,  and
monitoring  and  evaluation  specialist, each  with  qualifications,  experience
and  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the Bank,  and in  accordance  with the
provisions of Section  III  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

8. 

The  Borrower  shall,  not  later  than six (6)  months  after the  Effective  Date:

hire  a  service  provider  to  assist  in  the  implementation  of Part  B  of the
Project,  with  qualifications,  experience  and terms  of reference  acceptable
to  the  Bank,  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement;  and

bo'

- 10-

(b) 

ensure  that  a  memorandum  of  understanding  for  the  implementation  of
Part  A.3  of the  Project  has  been  executed  on  behalf of ADI  and  IIA,  in
form  and  substance  acceptable  to  the Bank.

Project Implementation  Manual

(a) 

include 

the  following  provisions: 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the Project  is  implemented  in  accordance  with  the
to  the  Bank  ("Project  Implementation
provisions  of  a  manual  satisfactory 
institutional
Manual"),  which  shall 
coordination  and  day-to-day  execution  of  the  Project;  (b)  Project  budgeting,
disbursement  and  financial  management;  (c)  procurement;  (d)  environmental  and
social  safeguards  guidelines,  including  the  screening  process  for  proposals  for
Subprojects;  (e)  monitoring,  evaluation,  reporting  and  communication  of Project
activities;  (f)  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  for  extending  Matching  Grants;
(g)  appraisal  and  approval  processes  for  proposals  for  Subprojects,  including  a
negative  list of activities  that  cannot  be  carried  out  under Subprojects;  (h)  model
form of the  Matching  Grant Agreement  acceptable  to  the Bank;  and  (i) such  other
arrangements  and
financial, 
administrative, 
procedures  as  shall  be required  for the  Project.

technical,  and  organizational 

The  Borrower  shall  not  amend, abrogate,  waive  or fail  to enforce  any provision  of
the  Project  Implementation  Manual  without  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the
Bank;  provided,  however,  that  in  case  of any  conflict  between  the  arrangements
and  procedures  set  out  in the Project  Implementation  Manual  and the provisions  of
this Agreement,  the provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

Annual Work  Plan and  Budget

The  Borrower shall,  not  later than  October  31  of each  year,  prepare  and  furnish  to
the  Bank,  an Annual  Work  Plan  and  Budget  containing  all  activities  proposed  to
be  included  in the Project  and a proposed  financing  plan for expenditures  required
for  such  activities,  setting  forth  the proposed  amounts  and sources  of financing.

The  Borrower  shall  afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views
with  the Borrower  on  such proposed  Annual  Work  Plan and  Budget and thereafter
ensure  that the  Project is  implemented  in accordance  with such  Annual  Work Plan
and  Budget  as  shall  have  been  approved by  the  Bank.

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

D. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

-ll-

E. 

Subprojects and Matching  Grants

Eligibility  Criteria and  Procedures  for  Provision  of Matching  Grants

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  provide  Matching  Grants  to  Beneficiaries  for  purposes  of
undertaking  Subprojects,  in  accordance  with  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures
acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  further  elaborated  in  the  Project  Implementation
Manual,  which  shall  include  the following:

(a) 

no  proposed  Beneficiary  shall  be  eligible  to  receive  a  Matching  Grant
unless the  proposed  Beneficiary  is:

(i) 

(A) 

(B) 

agricultural 

for  Subprojects  involving  small  scale  irrigation  schemes
productivity
production 
or 
group  or
smallholder 
improvements, 
organization,  all  the  members  of which  have  completed
training  under a farmer  field  schools program;  or

and 
farmers' 

a 

for  Subprojects  involving  post-harvest  management  and
value  addition:  (1)  a  smallholder  farmers'  group  or
organization  described  in  item  (A)  immediately  above,
with  proven  capacity  for  market-oriented  production  or
value  chain  activities;  or  (2)  a  small  rural  enterprise
established  and  operating  under the  laws of the Borrower,
with  proven  capacity  for  market-oriented  production  or
the  organization,
value  chain  activities,  and  with 
management,  technical  capacity  and  financial  resources
necessary  to  carry  out a proposed Subproject;

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

has prepared  a satisfactory  business plan,  including  financing plan
implementation  plan  for  the
and  budget,  and  a  satisfactory 
proposed  Subproject;

has  not  previously  benefited  from  a  Matching  Grant  or,  if it  has
the
benefited 
the
corresponding  Subproject 
Borrower  and the Bank;  and

it  has  completed 
to 

from  a  Matching  Grant, 

in  a  manner  satisfactory 

has  provided  satisfactory  evidence  of the  ability  to  provide  the
financing  of  its
required  Beneficiary's  contribution 
Subproject,  as  stated  in  the  Project  Implementation  Manual,  out
of resources  other than  the Matching  Grant.

to  the 

(b) 

no  proposed  Subproject  shall  be  eligible  for  financing  under  a Matching
Grant  unless  the  Borrower  shall  have  determined,  on  the  basis  of  an

- 12-

appraisal  carried  out  in accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable to  the Bank
and  elaborated  in  the  Project  Implementation  Manual,  that  the  proposed
Subproject:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

is technically  feasible  and economically  and  financially  viable;

would  have  positive  impacts  on  market  demand  for  smallholder
produce;

is  potentially  replicable  and  scalable  for  other  farmers  and
farmers'  organizations;  and

has  fulfilled 
Instrument;

the  requirements  of  any  applicable  Safeguards

(c) 

without limitation  on the  provisions of sub-paragraph  (b)(iv) immediately
above,  if, pursuant  to  the  ESMF  and/or  RPF,  one  or  more  Safeguards
Instruments  for  the  Subproject  are  required,  such  proposed  Subproject
shall  not  be  eligible  for  financing  under  a  Matching  Grant  until  such
Safeguards  Instruments  have  been  prepared  and  approved  by the  Bank  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of paragraph  (d)  of this  Section  I.E.1,  and
all  measures  required  to  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  Section  I.F  of
this  Schedule  prior  to  commencement  of  the  activities  covered  by  the
Safeguards  Instruments  have  been  carried  out;  and

(d) 

each  Matching  Grant  for  a Subproject  requiring  a  Safeguards  Instrument
shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's  prior  written  approval  and  shall  only  be
eligible  for  financing  under  the  Loan  if and  to  the  extent  approved  by
Bank.

Terms  and  Conditions  for Matching  Grants

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  provide  each  Matching  Grant  to  a  Beneficiary  under  a
Matching  Grant  Agreement  with  the  respective  Beneficiary  on  terms  and
conditions  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  consistent  with  the  model  form  of  the
Matching  Grant  Agreement  in  the  Project  Implementation  Manual,  which  shall
include,  inter alia, the following:

(a) 

(b) 

the  Matching  Grant  shall  be  made  on  a  non-reimbursable  grant  basis,
subject to  the provisions  of paragraph  (c)(i)  below;

the  Matching  Grant  shall  not  exceed  the  lesser  of:  (i)  $100,000;  and
(ii)  the  total  estimated  cost  of the  Subproject  minus  the  amount  of the
Beneficiary's  required  contribution as  stated in the Project Implementation
Manual;

A371

- 13 -

(c) 

the Borrower  shall  obtain  rights  adequate to  protect  its  interests  and those
of the Bank,  including  the  right to:

(i) 

suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  the  Beneficiary  to  use  the
proceeds  of the  Matching  Grant  or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any
part  of the  amount  of the  Matching  Grant  then  withdrawn,  upon
the  Beneficiary's  failure  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under
the  Matching Grant  Agreement;  and

(ii) 

require  each  Beneficiary  to:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

(E) 

carry out  its  Subproject  with due  diligence  and  efficiency
and 
in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  economic,
financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards
and  practices  satisfactory 
to  the  Bank,  including  in
accordance  with: 
the  provisions  of  the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  loan
proceeds  other  than the Borrower,  and (2)  the Safeguards
Instruments;

(1) 

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for
the purpose;

procure  the  goods,  works  and  services  to  be  financed  out
of the  Matching  Grant  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of this  Agreement;

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable it  to
in  accordance  with  indicators
monitor  and  evaluate 
acceptable to  the Bank, the progress of the Subproject  and
the achievement  of its  objectives;

(1) maintain  a  financial  management  system  and  prepare
in  accordance  with  consistently
financial  statements 
applied accounting  standards acceptable  to the Bank, both
in  a manner  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations,  resources
and expenditures  related to  the  Subproject;  and  (2)  at the
Bank's  or  the  Borrower's  request,  have  such  financial
statements  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to
in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
the  Bank, 
auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  promptly
furnish  the  statements  as  so  audited  to  the  Borrower  and
the  Bank;

IP

- 14-

(F) 

(G) 

the  Borrower  and 

inspect  the
enable 
Subproject,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents;  and

the  Bank 

to 

prepare  and furnish to the  Borrower and the Bank all  such
information  as the Borrower  or the  Bank shall  reasonably
request relating  to the  foregoing.

3. 

F. 

1 .

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  each  Matching  Grant  Agreement  in
such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish the purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in
writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  Matching
Grant Agreement  or any  of its  provisions.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Safeguards
Instruments.

To this  end,  the Borrower  shall  take  the following  measures:

(a) 

if any  Project  activity  would,  pursuant  to the  ESMF,  require  the carrying
out  of an  ESIA,  no  such  activities  shall  be implemented  unless:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

an  ESIA  for such  activity  has  been:  (A)  prepared  and  adequately
consulted  upon, in accordance  with the  ESMF  and furnished to the
Bank  for  review  and  approval;  (B)  disclosed  locally  as  required
by  the  ESMF;  and  (C)  approved  by  the  Bank  and  publicly
disclosed;  and

if said  ESIA  would  require  the  preparation  of  an  ESMP,  such
ESMP  has  been:  (A)  prepared  and  adequately  consulted  upon,  in
the  Bank;
accordance  with  such  ESIA  and 
(B)  disclosed  locally  as required  by  the  ESMF;  and  (C)  approved
by the  Bank  and  publicly  disclosed;

furnished 

to 

(b) 

if any  Project activity  would, pursuant  to  the RPF,  require the preparation
of a  RAP,  no  such  activities  shall  be implemented  unless:

a  RAP  for  such  activities  has  been:  (A)  prepared  and  adequately
consulted  upon,  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of the  RPF
and  furnished  to  the  Bank  for  review  and approval;  (B)  disclosed
as  required  by  the  RPF;  and  (C)  approved  by  the  Bank  and
publicly  disclosed;  and

- 15  -

(ii) 

to 

the  above,  providing 

(A)  all  measures  required to  be taken  under said  RAP  prior  to the
initiation  of  said  activities  have  been  taken,  including,  without
for  resettlement
limitation 
compensation  when  and  if required  under  a RAP;  (B)  a  report,  in
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  on  the  status  of
compliance  with  the requirements  of said  RAP  has  been  prepared
and  furnished  to  the  Bank;  and  (C)  the  Bank  has  confirmed  that
said  activities  may  be  commenced.

funds 

Without  limitation  upon  its  other  reporting  obligations  under this  Agreement,  the
Borrower  shall  regularly  collect,  compile  and  submit  to  the  Bank  as  part  of the
Project  Reports,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  reports  on  the
Instruments,  giving  details  of:
status  of  compliance  with 
(a)  measures  taken  in furtherance  of such  Safeguards  Instruments;  (b)  conditions,
if any,  which  interfere  or threaten  to  interfere  with  the  smooth  implementation  of
such  Safeguards  Instruments;  and  (c)  remedial  measures  taken  or  required  to  be
taken  to  address such  conditions.

the  Safeguards 

The  Borrower  shall  afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  review  and
exchange  views  with  the  Borrower  on  the  reports  prepared  under  paragraph  3
immediately  above, and  thereafter, shall  carry  out, or  cause to  be carried  out, with
due  diligence,  all  remedial  measures  agreed  with  the  Bank  so  as  to  ensure  the
in  accordance  with  the  Safeguards
proper 
Instruments.

implementation  of  the  Project 

The  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be
amended,  suspended,  abrogated  or  waived,  any  Safeguards  Instrument,  or  any
provision  thereof without the prior  written  agreement of the  Bank.

In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  any  of the  Safeguards
Instruments  and the provisions  of this Agreement,  the provisions  of this Agreement
shall  prevail.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that all  terms  of reference  for  any technical  assistance
and  studies  to  be carried  out  under the  Project  are  prepared  in  form and  substance
satisfactory  to  the  Bank and  consistent  with  the  Bank's  environmental  and social
safeguards  policies.

Section  II. 

Proiect Monitoring  Reporting and  Evaluation

Project  Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project and  prepare
Project  Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

A. 

1 .

- 16-

Report shall  cover the  period of one  (1) calendar  quarter,  and  shall be  furnished to
the  Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the  end  of the period  covered  by
such  report.

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the
execution  of the  Project and  related plan  required  pursuant to  that Section  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not later  than three (3) months  after the  Closing Date.

Financial  Management,  Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section, the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish to  the  Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the end  of
each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project covering
the  quarter,  in  form and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall cover  the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  not  later  than six  (6)  months  after the  end of such  period.

The  Borrower  shall  update,  not  later than  three (3) months after  Effective  Date, its
financial  management  and accounting  system  to  incorporate  the  Project.

The  Borrower  shall  recruit,  not  later than  six  (6)  months  after the  Effective  Date,
an  external  auditor  with  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  of  reference
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

C. 

1. 

Mid-Term  Review

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

no  later  than  twenty-four  (24)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  carry  out
jointly  with  the Bank  a mid-term  review  of the  progress  made  in carrying
out the Project.  As  part of the midterm review,  the Borrower  and the Bank
shall  review  a report  prepared  and  submitted  by  the PIU  three  (3) months
in advance  of the  mid-term  review;

assess, during the mid-term  review,  inter alia: (i) the overall  progress made
the  results  of  the
during  the  implementation  of  the  Project;  and  (ii) 
monitoring  and evaluation  activities;  and

A. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

- 17-

(c) 

No  later than thirty  (30)  days  after the completion  of the mid-term  review,
start  to  implement  the recommendations  of the mid-term  review as agreed
with  the  Bank.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the  Project and  to be  financed  out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services required  for the Project  and to  be
financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with  the
requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized terms used below  in this Section  to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of  particular  contracts
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Sections II, III,  IV  and V  of the Consultant  Guidelines,
as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those  contracts  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive
Bidding  ("NCB"),  subject  to  the  additional  provisions  referred  to  in  paragraph  3
below;  (b)  Shopping;  (c)  Direct  Contracting;  and  (d)  Community  Participation
procedures  which  have  been  found acceptable  to  the Bank.

3. 

Additional  Provisions  for National  Competitive  Bidding

(a) 

General. The  procedures  followed  for NCB  shall  be those  set  forth  in Lei
No.  20/10 da Contrataqdo Publica of September  7,  2010  ("Law")  of the

- 18  -

laws  of the  Borrower,  with  the  modifications  described  in  the  following
paragraphs.

Eligibility. The  eligibility of bidders shall  be as defined  under Section  I of
the  Procurement  Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder
shall  be declared ineligible  for contracts  financed  by  the Bank  for reasons
other  than  those  provided  in  Section  I  of the  Procurement  Guidelines.
Bidding  shall  not be  restricted  to  domestic  bidders.  No  restriction  based
on  nationality of bidders and/or origin  of the goods  shall apply other than
those  imposed  by  primary  boycotts  as  contemplated  in  Section  I  of the
Procurement Guidelines. Foreign bidders  shall be allowed to participate  in
NCB  without  restriction  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  unjustified
requirement  that  will  affect  their  ability  to  participate  in  the  bidding
process  such  as,  but  not  limited  to,  the  submission  of evidence  of good
standing in terms of taxes  paid to the Angolan government  and in terms of
social security contributions  made  in  Angola.

Prior  registration  or  obtaining  a license  or  authorization  shall  not  be  a
requirement for any  bidder to  participate  in the bidding process.

Government-owned  enterprises  or  institutions  of the  Borrower  shall  be
eligible to  participate  in the bidding process  only if they can establish that
they  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under  commercial
law, and are  not  dependent agencies of the  Borrower  or Sub-Borrower.

Bidding  Documents.  Standard  bidding documents acceptable to  the Bank
shall  be used.

Participation  by  Joint  Ventures.  Participation  shall  be  allowed  from
joint ventures on  condition  that such joint venture partners  will be jointly
and  severally liable  for their obligations under the Contract.

Preferences.  No  domestic/regional  preference,  or  any  other  kind  of
preferential treatment,  shall be given for domestic/regional  bidders, and/or
for
for 
domestically/regionally originated related  services.

domestically/regionally  manufactured 

goods, 

and/or 

Applicable  Procurement  Method.  Subject 
procurement  shall  be  carried  out 
Competitive  Bidding"  method (Concurso Publico) set  forth in the  Law.

these  provisions,
the  "Public

in  accordance  with 

to 

Qualification.  Qualification  criteria  shall  entirely  concern  the  bidder's
capability  and  resources  to  perform  the  contract  taking  into  account
objective and measurable factors. The  qualification criteria shall be  clearly
specified  in the bidding  documents,  and all  criteria so  specified,  and only

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

- 19-

such  criteria  so  specified  shall  be  used  to  determine  whether  a bidder  is
qualified. Qualification criteria shall  be assessed  on  a "pass  or  fail"  basis,
and merit points  shall not be  used.  Bidders'  qualifications shall be assessed
by  post-qualification and  such an  assessment shall be conducted separately
from  the technical  and commercial  evaluation of the  bids.

Advertisement.  A shorter version of the advertisement text, including the
minimum  relevant  information, may  be published  in a national  newspaper
of wide circulation provided that  the full text  is simultaneously published
in the  official  gazette  (Didrio da Republica) or  on a widely  used website
or  electronic portal  with  free national  and international  access.

Bid  Preparation Time.  Bidders  shall be  given  at least  twenty-eight  (28)
days  from  the  date  of the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of availability  of
bidding documents,  whichever is  later, to prepare and  submit bids.

Bids  Submission  and Bid Opening.  Bids may be submitted  by  electronic
means  only provided  that  the  Bank  is  satisfied  with the  adequacy  of the
is  secure,  maintains  the
system,  including  inter alia  that  the  system 
integrity,  confidentiality, and  authenticity of the  bids  submitted,  and  uses
an  electronic signature system  or equivalent to keep bidders bound to their
bids.

Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline  for  their
submission  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  stated  in  the  bidding
documents.  The public  bid  opening  shall take  place  in  only  one  session.
At the  public bid  opening, the  names  of the  bidders  and the  total  amount
of each  bid,  and  of any  alternative  bids  if  they  have  been  requested  or
permitted,  shall  be  read  aloud  and  recorded  when  opened.  Bids shall  not
be evaluated as  part of the bid opening process, and no bid shall be  rejected
during  the  public  bid  opening  session,  except  for late  bids.  Bidders  shall
not be  allowed to complete  their bids  after the  deadline for submission  of
bids has  expired.

Bid  Validity.  No  automatic  extension  of the  bid  validity  shall  apply.  If
justified  by  exceptional  circumstances,  an  extension  of the  bid  validity
may  be  requested  in  writing  from  all  bidders  before  the  original  bid
validity  expiration  date  and  it  shall  cover  only  the  minimum  period
required  to  complete  the  evaluation  and  award  of  the  contract.  The
extension  of the  bid  validity  requires  the  Bank's  no objection  for  those
contracts subject to  prior review.

(j) 

(k) 

(1) 

(m) 

(n) 

(o) 

Bid  Evaluation

- 20  -

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

in  strict  adherence  to  the
Evaluation  of  bids  shall  be  made 
evaluation  criteria  declared  in the bidding documents.  Evaluation
criteria  other  than price  shall  be quantified  in monetary  terms  and
the  manner  in  which  they  will  be  applied  for  the  purpose  of
determining  the  lowest  evaluated  bid  shall  be  established  in  the
bidding documents.  A weighting/scoring  system shall  not be used.

A  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  qualified  bidder  offering  the
bid.  No
substantially 
lowest-evaluated 
negotiations  shall  be permitted.

responsive 

and 

Bidders  shall  not  be  eliminated  on  the  basis  of  minor,  non-
substantial  deviations.

Requests  for clarification and the bidder's responses  shall be made
in writing and  they shall  not  be notified  to  other bidders.

clarification, 

After  the  public  opening  of  bids,  information  relating  to  the
and
and 
examination, 
recommendations  concerning  the awards  shall  not be  disclosed to
bidders  or other  persons  not officially  concerned  with this  process
until  publication of the  award of the  contract.

evaluation  of  bids 

Rejection  of All  Bids  and Re-bidding.  All  bids  shall  not  be rejected,  the
procurement  process  shall  not  be  cancelled,  and  new  bids  shall  not  be
solicited without the Bank's  prior concurrence.

Securities.  Bid  securities  shall  not  exceed  three  percent  (3%)  of  the
estimated  cost of the contract;  and performance  securities  shall not  exceed
ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  contract  price.  The  successful  bidder  shall  be
given  at  least fifteen  (15)  days  from  the receipt  of notification  of contract
award  to  submit  a  performance  security.  No  advance  payment  shall  be
made  without a  suitable  advance  payment  security.

the  Bank's  no  objection 

Publication of  Contract Award.  Information  on  contract  award  shall  be
published  at  least  in  a national  newspaper  of wide  circulation  within  two
to  the  award
(2)  weeks  of  receiving 
recommendation  for contracts  subject to  prior  review,  and within two  (2)
weeks  from  the  award  decision  for  contracts  subject  to  post  review.
Publication  shall  include the  following  information:  (i) the  name  of each
bidder  which  submitted  a  bid;  (ii)  bid  prices  as  read  out  at  bid  opening;
(iii)  evaluated  prices  of  each  bid  that  was  evaluated;  (iv)  the  names  of
bidders  whose  bids  were  rejected  and  the  reasons  for  their  rejection,  and
(v)  the  name  of the  winning  bidder, the  final  total  contract  price,  and the
duration  and  summary  scope  of the contract.

(p) 

(q) 

(r) 

-21 

-

(s) 

(t) 

(u) 

(v) 

Complaints  by  Bidders  and  Handling  of  Complaints.  The  Borrower
shall  establish  an  effective and  independent  protest  mechanism  allowing
bidders  to  protest and  to have  their protest handled  in a timely manner.

introduced  by 

Contract and Contract Modifications.  Contracts shall be in writing  and
the  bid  of  the  successful  bidder  shall  become  part  of  the  Contract
the  contracting
documents  without  any  modification 
authority.  In the  case  of contracts  subject to prior review,  the  Bank's  no
objection  shall be  obtained before  agreeing to:  (i)  a material  extension of
the  stipulated  time  for  performance  of a contract;  (ii)  any  substantial
modification  of the  scope  of services or  other  significant  changes  to the
terms  and  conditions  of  the  contract;  (iii)  any  variation  order  or
in  cases  of  extreme  urgency)  which,  singly  or
amendment  (except 
combined  with  all  variation  orders  or  amendments  previously  issued,
increases the original contract amount by more than fifteen percent (15%);
or  (iv)  the  proposed  termination  of the  contract.  A  copy  of all  contract
amendments  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank for its record;

Right to  Inspect/Audit.  In  accordance  with the  Procurement  Guidelines,
each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  from  the  proceeds  of the
Loan  shall  provide that bidders,  suppliers,  and  contractors, and their sub-
contractors, agents,  personnel,  consultants, service providers or suppliers,
shall permit the  Bank, at  its request, to inspect their accounts, records  and
relating  to  the  submission  of  bids  and  contract
other  documents 
performance,  and to have them audited by  auditors appointed by the Bank.
Acts  intended  to materially  impede  the  exercise  of the  Bank's  inspection
and  audit  rights  constitute  an  obstructive  practice  as  defined  in  the
Procurement  Guidelines.

Fraud and Corruption. In accordance  with the Procurement Guidelines,
each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  from  the  proceeds  of the
fraud  and
include  provisions  on  matters  pertaining  to 
Loan  shall 
corruption.  The  Bank  will  sanction a firm  or  individual,  at  any  time,  in
accordance  with  prevailing  Bank  sanctions  procedures,  including  by
publicly declaring such  firm  or individual  ineligible, either indefinitely or
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; and
(ii)  to  be  a  nominated  subcontractor,  consultant,  supplier  or  service
provider  of an  otherwise  eligible  firm  being  awarded  a Bank-financed
contract;

(w) 

Debarment  under  National  System.  The  Bank  may  recognize,  if
requested  by  the  Borrower,  exclusion  from  participation  as  a result  of
debarment  under  the  national  system,  provided  that  the  debarment  is  for
offenses  involving  fraud,  corruption  or  similar  misconduct,  and  further

- 22  -

provided  that  the  Bank  confirms  that  the  particular  debarment  process
afforded  due process  and the debarment  decision  is  final.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph  2
below,  consultants'  services shall be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis
of Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those  contracts  which  are specified  in the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Budget; 
(e)  Single-source  Selection  of  consulting  firms;  (f)  Well-
Qualifications; 
established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial  Practices  which
have been  found acceptable to  the Bank; (g)  Selection  of United Nations  Agencies;
(h)  Procedures  set  forth in paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the Consultant  Guidelines  for
the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants;  and  (i)  Single-source  procedures  for  the
Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by  the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of  Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article II of the General  Conditions, this  Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised
from time to time  by  the  Bank  and as made  applicable  to this  Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in the  table  in
paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each Category.

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

- 23  -

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of  Taxes)

10,000,000 

100%

9,000,000 

100%

100%

4,000,000

7,000,000 

100%

Category 

(1) Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'
services and  Training
for Part  A.1  of the
Project

(2)  Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services,
Operating  Costs and
Training  for  Part  A.2
of the  Project

(3) Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services, 
Operating Costs  and
Training  for Part  A.3
of the Project

(4)  Non-consulting 
services  and
consultants'  services
for  Part  B.1  of the
Project

(6)  Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services,
Operating  Costs and
Training  for  Part  C of
the  Project

(5) Matching  Grants  under 
Part  B.2  of the Project 

30,000,000 

100%  of amounts
disbursed  by  the Borrower
under the Matching  Grant

9,825,000 

100%

- 24  -

(7)  Front-end  Fee 

175,000 

(8) Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

$70,000,000

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
in  accordance
Agreement 
with  Section  2.07(b)  of the
General  Conditions

Amount  due  pursuant 
Section  2.08(c)  of 
Agreement

to
this

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

I. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made prior  to  the date  of this Agreement.

2. 

The  Closing  Date  is  December  31,  2021.

- 25  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment  Date, the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date; by  (b)  the Installment  Share for each Principal  Payment Date,  such
repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to  which a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

On  each  April  land  October  1

Beginning October  1, 2021
Through  October  1, 2034 

On  April  1, 2035 

3.57%

3.61%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

to  the extent  that any proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been withdrawn  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule;  and

any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

- 26  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date of withdrawal and  shall  be  repayable  on  each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  any time the  Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are  issued  on or after the respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the provisions
of such  sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to  any withdrawals  made after
the  adoption of such  billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date occurring  during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior  to the  Conversion by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
the  Bank  so  determines 
exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce a separate  amortization  schedule for  each
such  amount.

- 27  -

APPENDIX

Section  1. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"ADI"  or  "Instituto  de  Desenvolvimento  Agrario"  means 
the  Borrower's
Agricultural  Development  Institute  within  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  or  any
successor  thereto.

"Affected  Person"  means  a person  who  as  a result of:  (i) the  involuntary taking  of
land  under  the  Project  is affected  in  any of the  following  ways:  (A)  relocation  or
loss of shelter;  (B)  loss  of assets or access  to  assets;  or (C)  loss  of income  sources
or means  of livelihood,  whether  or not  the  affected  person  must  move  to  another
location;  or (ii) the  involuntary restriction of access to  legally designated  parks  and
protected  areas  suffers  adverse  impacts  on  his  or  her  livelihood;  and  "Affected
Persons"  means  more than  one Affected  Person.

"Annual  Work  Plan and  Budget"  means the work  plan and budget approved by  the
Bank  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section
1.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as  said work  plan and budget may be modified
from time  to  time  with the  prior  written agreement  of the Bank.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011.

"Beneficiary"  means  a smallholder  farmers'  group or organization  or a small  rural
enterprise  which has  met  the eligibility criteria  specified  in  Section  I.E of Schedule
2  to this Agreement  and in the  Project Implementation  Manual  and,  as  a result, has
been  extended,  or  is  to  be  extended,  a  Matching  Grant  for  the  carrying  out  of
activities  under  Part  B.2  of the  Project;  and "Beneficiaries"  means  more  than one
such  Beneficiary.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July  2014).

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment"  or  "ESIA"  means  each  site
specific  environmental  and  social  assessment  to  be  prepared  by  the  Borrower
in  each  case  identifying  and  assessing  the  potential
pursuant  to  the  ESMF, 
environmental  and  social  impacts  of  a  proposed  Project  activity,  evaluating
alternatives,  and  designing  appropriate  mitigation,  management,  and  monitoring
measures,  including  procedures  to  ensure the  safety  of new  and existing  dams,  as

- 28  -

9. 

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of
the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  schedules 
to  such  document;  and
"Environmental  and  Social  Impact Assessments"  or "ESIAs"  mean  more than  one
such  assessment.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
environmental  and  social  management  framework  disclosed  on  December  11,
2015,  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  and  on  December  16,  2015,  in  the  Bank's
InfoShop,  adopted  by  the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  the
modalities  for  environmental  and  social  screening,  and  outlining  environmental
and  social  implementation,  mitigation  and  monitoring  measures  and  procedures,
including  procedures  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  ESIAs  and
ESMPs,  and procedures  to ensure the safety  of new and existing dams,  as the same
may be  amended  from time  to  time  with the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,
and such  term  includes  any  schedules  to  such  document.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  or  "ESMP"  means  each  site
specific  environmental  and  social  management  plan  to  be  prepared  by  the
Borrower  pursuant  to the  ESMF,  in each  case  setting  forth appropriate  mitigation,
monitoring  and  institutional  measures  designed  to  mitigate  the  potential  adverse
environmental  and  social  impacts  of  a  proposed  Project  activity,  offset  them,
including
reduce 
procedures  to  ensure  the  safety  of new  and  existing  dams,  as  the  same  may  be
amended  from  time to  time  with the prior  written agreement  of the  Bank, and such
term  includes  any  schedules  to  such  document;  and  "Environmental  and  Social
Management  Plans"  and  "ESMPs"  mean  more than  one  such plan.

levels,  or  enhance  positive 

to  acceptable 

impacts, 

them 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set  forth in  Section  II of this  Appendix.

"IIA"  or  "Instituto de  Investigacao Agrario" means  the  Borrower's  Agricultural
Research  Institute, or  any successor  thereto.

"Integrated  Pest  Management  Framework"  or "IPMF"  means  the  integrated  pest
management  plan  disclosed  on  December  11,  2015,  in  the  Borrower's  territory,
and  on  December  16,  2015,  in the Bank's  InfoShop,  adopted  by the  Borrower  and
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and
institutional  measures  for  integrated  pest  management  and  the  safe  handling  of
pesticides  under activities  to be  implemented under the Project,  and for minimizing
any  potential  related  adverse  impacts,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any
schedules  or  annexes to  such  document.

- 29  -

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

1 8. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

"Matching  Grant"  means a grant  made  or proposed  to be made  out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan to  a Beneficiary,  for the  purpose  of a Subproject  under Part  B.2  of the
Project,  as described  in  Section  I.E  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  in  more
detail  in the  Project  Implementation  Manual;  and  "Matching  Grants"  means  more
than  one such  Matching  Grant.

"Matching  Grant  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  entered,  or to  be  entered,  into
between  the  Borrower  and  a  Beneficiary,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  LE of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,  providing for a Matching  Grant;  and
"Matching  Grant  Agreements"  means more  than  one such  agreement.

"Ministry  of  Agriculture"  means 
agriculture,  or any  successor  thereto.

the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred on  account  of Project
implementation,  based  on Annual  Work  Plans and  Budgets  approved  by  the Bank
pursuant  to Section  LC of Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  including  office supplies,
vehicle  operation  and  maintenance,  communication  and  insurance  costs,  office
administration  costs,  utilities,  travel  and  per diem  related  to  supervision  of the
Project,  excluding  salaries  of the  Borrower's  civil  servants.

"Participating  Province"  means  one  of the  following  provinces  in the  Borrower's
territory  participating  in the  Project:  Bie,  Huambo  or Malanje;  and  "Participating
Provinces"  means,  collectively,  all  of said  provinces.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the Borrower's  procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
April  20,  2016,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines
and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the same shall  be  updated from
time  to  time  in accordance  with  the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Coordination  Committee"  or  "PCC"  means  the  project  coordination
committee  referred  to  in Section  1.A.2  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

"Project  Implementation  Manual"  means  the  manual  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
referred  to  in  Section  LB  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  may be  amended
from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term
includes any  schedules  and  annexes to  the said  manual.

the  project
Implementation  Sub-Committee"  or  "PISC"  means 
"Project 
implementation  sub-committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

- 30  -

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

",Project Implementation  Unit"  or  "PIU"  means  the  project  implementation  unit
within ADI  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.4  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Provincial  Project  Coordination  Committee"  or  "PPCC"  means  a  provincial
project  coordination  committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.5  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement; and "Provincial  Project Coordination  Committees"  or "PPCCs"  means
more than  one  such  PPCC.

Implementation  Sub-Committee"  or  "PPISC"  means  a
"Provincial  Project 
provincial  project  implementation  sub-committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.6  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  "Provincial  Project  Implementation  Sub-
Committees"  or "PPISCs"  means  more than  one such  PPISC.

"Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  "PPlU"  means  a  provincial  project
implementation  unit  referred  to  in  Section I.A.7  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement;
and  "Provincial  Project  Implementation  Units"  or "PPIUs"  means  more  than  one
such  PPIU.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "RAP"  means,  for  a  given  Project  activity,  the
resettlement  action  plan  for  said  activity,  to  be  prepared  by  the  Borrower  in
accordance  with the  RPF,  and  describing the compensation  and other  resettlement
assistance  to  be  provided,  consultation  to  be  conducted  with  Affected  Persons
about  acceptable  alternatives,  institutional  responsibilities  for the  implementation
and  procedures  for  grievance  redress,  and  arrangements  for  monitoring  and
evaluation,  as  the  same may  be  amended  from time  to  time  with  the prior  written
agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such term  includes  any  schedules  to  such  document;
and "Resettlement  Action  Plans"  and "RAPs"  mean  more  than one  such plan.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  resettlement  policy
framework  disclosed  on  December  16,  2015,  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  and  on
in  the  Bank's  InfoShop,  adopted  by  the  Borrower  and
December  21,  2015 
acceptable  to  Bank,  containing  guidelines,  procedures,  timetables  and  other
specifications  for  the  provision  of compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement
assistance  to  Affected  Persons,  and  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of
RAPs,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the Bank,  and  such  term  includes all  schedules  to  such document.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the ESMF,  ESIAs,  ESMPs,  IPMF,
RPF,  and  RAPs;  and "Safeguards  Instrument"  means  any one of such  instruments.

"Subproject"  means  a  set  of  activities  to  be  carried  out  under  Part  B.2  of  the
Project,  in accordance  with the requirements  of the Project Implementation Manual
referred  to  in  Section  L.B  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  "Subprojects"
means  more  than one such  Sub-project.

32. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

"Training"  means  the  cost  associated  with  training,  workshops  and  study  tours,
based  on  Annual  Work  Plans  and  Budgets  approved  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  L.C  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement,  for reasonable  expenditures required
to  carry  out  training  activities  (other than  expenditures  for  consultants'  services),
including:  (a)  travel,  room,  board  and per diem  expenditures  incurred  by  trainers
and  trainees  in  connection  with  their  training  and  by  non-consultant  training
facilitators;  (b)  course  fees;  (c)  training  facility  rentals;  and  (d)  training  material
preparation,  acquisition,  reproduction  and distribution  expenses.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are  hereby modified  as follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers  are modified  to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate  specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay 

the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on 

the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
-Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a date  sixty
days after the date of the  Loan Agreement  to the respective  dates  on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"1l9. 
Loan  Agreement  for  the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.0 1(a).

- 32  -

6. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term "Loan  Payment"  is  modified  to  read as  follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,  interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment  Charge,  interest at the Default  Interest  Rate (if any),  any
prepayment  premium,  any transaction  fee  for a Conversion  or early  termination  of
a Conversion,  the Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any), any  premium  payable
upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any
Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the  words "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after the  word  "interest".

