OFCIAL

LOAN  NUMBER  8581-JM

Loan Agreement

(Jamaica  Disaster Vulnerability  Reduction Project)

between

JAMAICA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

( 

, 2016

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8581-JM

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

,  2016,  between  JAMAICA
("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as  defined in the  Appendix  to this Agreement)  constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them in  the General  Conditions  or in the  Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions set  forth or
referred  to in  this Agreement,  the  amount  of thirty million Dollars  ($30,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  2.08  of this Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may  withdraw the proceeds  of the Loan in accordance  with  Section

IV of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one  quarter of

one percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon a  Conversion  of all or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance remains  unpaid  when  due and  such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower shall  instead be calculated as provided in  Section 3.02(e)  of the General
Conditions.

-2-

2.06.  The Payment Dates are January  15  and  July  15  in  each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule  set forth in Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower may  at  any  time request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the terms of the  Loan in order to  facilitate prudent  debt management:

(i) 

(ii) 

a change of the Loan Currency  of all or any portion of the principal
amount  of the  Loan, withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to  an Approved
Currency;

a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed Rate,  or vice  versa;
or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Reference Rate  and the  Variable  Spread to  a  Variable Rate based
on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable  Spread,  or vice versa;
or  (C)  all  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable  Spread to a
Variable  Rate based on a  Fixed Spread;  and

(iii) 

the  setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate
applicable to  all or any portion of the principal  amount of the Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an  Interest
Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the
Reference  Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this Article  that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV of the General  Conditions and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date  for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from the Loan Account and pay to itself the  amounts
required  to  pay any  premium payable  in  accordance  with Section  4.05(c)
of the General Conditions up to  the amount allocated from time to  time for
the purpose  in the table  in Section  IV of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

-3-

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing Entity in accordance  with the provisions  of Article V of the General
Conditions  and the  Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Article  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the  Project is carried out in accordance  with the provisions of Schedule
2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist of the  following:

(a) 

The Project Implementing Entity's Charter has been amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as to  affect  materially and  adversely  the
ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any  of its obligations
under the  Project  Agreement  and  a  substitute  entity has  not  been agreed
by the  Borrower and the Bank.

(b) 

The Project  Implementing  Entity shall  have  failed  to  comply  with any  of
its obligations  under the  Subsidiary Agreement.

4.02.  The Additional  Events  of Acceleration  consist  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

Any  event  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  of Article  4.01  of this Agreement
occurs.

The  event  specified  in  paragraph  (b)  of Article  4.01  of this  Agreement
occurs  and  is continuing  for a period of sixty  (60)  days  after notice  of the
event  has been given by the Bank to  the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:  namely, that
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on behalf of the  Borrower  and  the
Project Implementing  Entity.

5.02.  The Additional  Legal Matter consists of the following:  namely, that the  Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by the  Borrower  and  the Project
Implementing  Entity  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing Entity in accordance  with its terms.

-4-

5.03.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this Agreement,  but  in  no
case later than eighteen (18)  months after the Bank's  approval of the Loan, which
expires  on August  10,  2017.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is the Minister  of Finance  and  the Public Service.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Finance  and the Public  Service
30  National  Heroes  Circle
Kingston  4
Jamaica

Facsimile:

876-924-9291

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Kingston, Jamaica,  as of the day  and  year first above written.

-5-

JAMAICA

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  AC  1

Title: 
C"V-yA 

0w/uk  wiC

GeWC vv ke C--e

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Name:________

Title:  CQk I N-A 

moico

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the Project  is to enhance  the Borrower's resilience  to disaster  and

climate risk.

The Project  consists  of the following  components:

Component  1:  Technical  Assistance  for Improved  Disaster and  Climate Resilience

Provision  of goods, consultants'  services  and Training  for:

strengthening  the  seismic monitoring  network;

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

establishing  a  National  Risk  Information  Platform  to  include the  Coastal
Risk Atlas;

preparing  multi-hazard  risk  assessments  for  coastal  areas,  including
ecosystems-based  analyses  and micro  zonation  studies;

supporting  implementation  of the National  Building  Code;  and

promoting  public  awareness  related  to  climate  change  and  disaster  risk
management.

Component  2:  Risk Reduction

Retrofitting,  constructing  or  rehabilitating  priority  infrastructure  (bridges  and
urban drainage);  retrofitting or constructing and equipping  critical public facilities (schools
and  fire stations);  and  establishing or improving  coastal protection measures,  all identified
in  agreement  with  the  Bank,  through  the  provision  of  goods,  works,  and  consultants'
services.

Improving  the  Borrower's  response  and  recovery  capacity  in  the  event  of  an

Component  3:  Contingent  Emergency Response

Eligible Crisis  or Emergency, as needed.

Component  4:  Project  Administration

Program  management  costs,  including  Project  audits,  monitoring  and  evaluation,

equipment,  Training, and  Operating  Costs.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arran2ements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

The Borrower  shall ensure that  the Project  Implementing  Entity is responsible  for
implementation  of the Project in accordance  with the Project Operational  Manual.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  Operational  Manual  is  not  amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, in whole or in part, without the approval
of the Bank.

Within ninety  (90) days  of the effectiveness  date of the Project,  the Borrower  shall
establish  and  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  an  Inter-Ministerial
Steering  Committee,  with  composition,  functions  and responsibilities  acceptable
to  the Bank  and  set  forth in  the Project  Operational  Manual,  including,  inter alia,
responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  Project  achieves  the  Project  development
objectives.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Inter-Ministerial  Steering
Committee is  co-chaired  by representatives  from the  Project Implementing  Entity
and PIOJ.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  MLGCD  and  ODPEM  contributes  to  the  Project
risk  identification  and  risk  reduction  activities,  including  the  development  and
implementation  of training on the  application  of the  National  Building  Code  and
the enhancement  of the seismic  risk reduction  capacity.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  MTM,  MOEYI  and  MLGCD  contribute  to  the
Project through the retrofitting, construction and/or rehabilitation and  equipping of
national  infrastructure,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  fire  stations,  bridges,  urban
drainage, coastal  protection, and schools.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  MEGJC  contributes  to  the  coordination  of the
National  Risk  Information  Platform  to  increase  the  Borrower's  data  sharing
capabilities  and  to  integrate  the  hazard  risk  information  into  planning  and
development.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to ensure that the terms
of reference  for  any  consultancy  in  respect  of the  Project  shall be  satisfactory to
the  Bank, as reflected  in the Procurement  Plan.

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

-8-

Subsidiary Agreement

To  facilitate the carrying out  of the  Project, the  Borrower shall  make the proceeds
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  under  a  subsidiary
agreement  (the  Subsidiary  Agreement)  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  under terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  which
shall  include,  inter  alia:  (a)  the  amount  of the  Loan  proceeds  allocated  for
Components  1, 2 and  4 of the  Project;  (b) the  terms and  conditions  for the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  receipt  of  the  Loan  proceeds  on  a  grant  basis;  (c)  the
obligations  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  take  all  actions  to  enable  the
Borrower  to  comply  with  the  pertinent  obligations  under  this  Agreement  as
applicable  to the Project;  and  (d)  the pertinent  provisions  of this Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to protect  the  interests  of the Borrower
and  the  Bank  and to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree, the  Borrower  shall  not  assign, amend,  terminate,  abrogate
or waive the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or any of its provisions.

Contingent  Emergency  Response

In  the  event that  an Eligible  Crisis  or Emergency  arises  and in order to  ensure the
proper implementation  of Component  3  of the Project, the  Borrower,  through  the
Project Implementing  Entity, shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

forth  detailed 

Implementing  Entity 

for  coordinating  and 

implementation  arrangements 

prepare  an  emergency  financing  plan  ("Emergency  Financing  Plan")
which  shall  set 
for
Component  3,  including:  (i)  designation of resources to be allocated  to the
Project 
implementing
Component 3;  (ii) specific activities which may be included  in Component
3,  Eligible  Expenditures  required  therefor  ("Emergency  Expenditures"),
and  any  procedures  for  such 
inclusion;  (iii)  financial  management
arrangements  for Component  3;  (iv) procurement  methods  and procedures
for  Emergency  Expenditures  to  be  financed  under  Component  3;  (v)
documentation  required for withdrawals  of Emergency  Expenditures;  and
(vi)  any other  arrangements  necessary  to  ensure  proper  coordination  and
implementation  of Component  3;

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  review  said  Emergency
Financing  Plan and respond  within a  five  (5)  calendar  day  period;

promptly adopt  such Emergency  Financing Plan for Component  3  as  shall
have been approved  by  the Bank;

-9-

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

ensure that Component  3 is  carried  out  in accordance  with the  Emergency
Financing  Plan and  the  CERC  Action Plan,  including  through  MLSS,  in
the event that cash grants  or transfers will be financed;  provided, however,
that  in  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  provisions  of  the
Emergency  Financing  Plan,  the  CERC  Action Plan,  and  this Agreement,
the provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail;

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of  the
Emergency  Financing  Plan without prior approval  by the  Bank;  and

not undertake  activities under Component  3 unless and  until the Borrower
has  determined  that  an  Eligible  Crisis  or  Emergency  has  occurred,  has
furnished  to  the  Bank a  request  to  include  said activities  in  Component  3
in order to  respond to  said Eligible Crisis  or Emergency, and  the Bank has
agreed  with  such  determination,  accepted  said  request  and  notified  the
Borrower thereof.

In the event  that  an Eligible  Crisis or  Emergency  arises  and  in order to  ensure the
proper  implementation  of Component  3 of the Project,  the Bank  shall  review  the
Emergency Financing  Plan and provide  comments  to the Borrower within five  (5)
calendar  days  of receipt.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
Environmental  Management  Framework  ("EMF")  and  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  ("RPF").

The Borrower  shall ensure that the EMF and the RPF are not amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived,  in  whole  or  in  part,  without  the  approval  of the
Bank.

The Borrower shall  cause the Project Implementing  Entity to  ensure that the terms
of reference  for  any  consultancy  shall  duly  incorporate  the  requirements  of the
Bank Safeguards  Policies then in force, as applied to the  advice conveyed  through
such technical  assistance.

Prior to  the  carrying  out of any  activities  under  Component  2  of the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity to  prepare  Environmental
Management  Plans  ("EMPs")  in  accordance  with the EMF  and to  implement  said

2. 

E. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

-10-

activities  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  EMP.  Prior  review  by  the  Bank  shall
only be required  in connection  with those  activities that  require an environmental
impact  assessment, as determined  by JSIF or NEPA  in accordance  with the EMF.

Prior to  the  carrying  out of any activities  under Component  2  of the  Project  that
require Resettlement,  the Borrower shall  cause the  Project Implementing  Entity to
prepare RAPs  in  accordance  with the  RPF,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to
the Bank, and to  carry out the Resettlement  in accordance  with the relevant  RAP.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower shall  monitor  and evaluate  the  progress of the Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall cover the period of six  (6)  months,  and  shall be  furnished to the  Bank
not later than forty-five  (45) days  after the end of the period covered by such report.

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the
execution  of the  Project and related plan required pursuant  to that  Section  shall be
furnished  to the Bank not later than four  (4)  months after the  Closing Date.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank no  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the  end  of
each  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  each
quarter, in  form and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have its  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements shall cover the period of one  fiscal year of the Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for  each such  period  shall be  furnished  to the  Bank
not later than six (6)  months after the  end of such period.

5. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-11-

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the  Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in Section  I  of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the  provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines and  with the provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Sections II,  III,  IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as  the  case may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded  on the basis  of International  Competitive Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods, other  than International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those contracts  specified  in the Procurement  Plan:

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 

National  Competitive  Bidding;
Shopping;
Direct  Contracting;  and
Community Participation  procedures which have been found acceptable to
the  Bank.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

-12-

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts which are specified  in the
Procurement  Plan:

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

(g) 

Quality-based  Selection;
Selection under a  Fixed Budget;
Least  Cost Selection;
Selection based on Consultants'  Qualifications;
Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms;
Procedures  set forth in paragraphs  5.2 and 5.3  of the Consultant Guidelines
for the  Selection of Individual  Consultants;  and
Single-source  procedures  for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Procurement of Emergency  Expenditures under Component  3 of the Project

Notwithstanding  any  provision  to  the  contrary  in  this  Section,  Emergency
Expenditures  required  for  Component  3  of  the  Project  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with  the  procurement  methods  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the
Emergency  Financing  Plan.

E. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those contracts  which shall  be subject to  the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article II  of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated May  2006, as  revised
from time to time  by the  Bank and as  made applicable  to  this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in the  table  in
paragraph  2 below.

The following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each Category.

A. 

1. 

2. 

-13-

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

3,465,000 

100%

100%

100%

350,000 

23,610,000 

0

2,500,000 

100%

Amount payable
pursuant  to Article
2.03  of this
Agreement  in
accordance  with
Section  2.07(b)  of
the General
Conditions

Amount due
pursuant  to Section
2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

Category 

(1)  Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services
for Component  1 of the Project
and Training  for Component
1(a),  (b),  (c), and (e)  of the
Project

(2)  Training  for  Component  1(d) 
of the Project

(3) Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,  and
consultants'  services  for
Component  2 of the  Project

(4) Emergency  Expenditures 
under Component  3  of the
Project

(5) Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services,
Training  and  Operating  Costs for
Component  4 of the Project

(6)  Front-end  Fee 

75,000 

(7)  Interest Rate Cap  or Interest 
Rate Collar premium 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

30,000,000

-14-

B. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall be

1 .
made:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  one  hundred
thousand Dollars ($100,000)  may be made  for payments  made prior to this
date  but  on  or  after  September  1,  2015,  for  Eligible  Expenditures  for
Training  under Category  (2);

for payments made  for Eligible Expenditures  for Training  under Category
(2),  unless  the  Building  Act  has  been  enacted  to  enforce  the  National
Building Code;  and

for  payments  under  Category  (4)  for  Emergency  Expenditures  under
Component  3  of the Project,  unless and until the Bank is  satisfied, and has
notified  the Borrower of its satisfaction, that all of the following conditions
have  been met  in respect  of said  activities:

(i) 

(ii) 

the Borrower has determined  that an Eligible  Crisis or Emergency
has  occurred,  has  furnished  to  the Bank  a  request  to  include  said
activities  in  Component  3  in  order  to  respond  to  said  Eligible
Crisis  or  Emergency,  and  the  Bank  has  agreed  with  such
determination,  accepted  said  request  and  notified  the  Borrower
thereof;

the  Borrower has  adopted  an Emergency  Financing  Plan  in form,
substance  and  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  provisions
of the  Emergency  Financing  Plan  remain  - or  have  been updated
in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Section I  of this  Schedule  2
so  as  to  be  - appropriate  for the  inclusion  and  implementation  of
said  activities under Component  3;  and

(iii) 

the  Borrower has  ensured  that  no expenditures  in the  Emergency
Financing  Plan  finances  salaries  or  any  activities  that  are  not  in
compliance  with the  EMF or any of the  Bank Safeguard  Policies.

2. 

The Closing Date is June 30,  2022.

-15-

SCHEDULE  3

1. 

The  following  table sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount  of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the  Bank by  multiplying: 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date; by (b) the Installment  Share  for each Principal Payment  Date,  such
repayable  amount to  be adjusted,  as  necessary, to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in paragraph  4 of this Schedule, to  which a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

On  each January  15  and July  15

Beginning  January  15,  2023 
through  July  15,  2044

On January  15,  2045 

2.22%

2.32%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds  of the Loan have  been withdrawn  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined  by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary, to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule, to  which a Currency
Conversion  applies.

-16-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within two  calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal  and shall be repayable  on each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal  Payment Date, the provisions
of such  sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption  of such billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all or  any portion of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date  occurring  during the Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion  by either:  (i)  the exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component  of the Screen  Rate.

If the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is denominated  in more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the  amount  denominated
in  each Loan  Currency, so as to produce  a  separate amortization  schedule  for each
such amount.

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January 2011.

"Bank  Safeguards  Policies"  means  the  World  Bank's  operational  policies  and
procedures  set  forth in the World Bank's Operational  Manual under OP/BPs 4.01,
4.04, 4.10,  4.11,  4.12, 4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60,  as  said manual  is published under
the  following  website:  www.worldbank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth in the  table  in  Section IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"CERC  Action  Plan"  means  the  Contingent  Emergency  Response  Component
Action  Plan,  approved  by  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  Project  Operational  Manual,
setting forth the  policies and procedures  required  for the Borrower to  utilize Loan
proceeds  for Component  3 of the Project.

"Coastal  Risk Atlas"  means a  visualization toolbox to be used  for the broad-based
visualization,  identification,  analysis  and  dissemination  of information  on  coastal
hazards  and risks  primarily at the national  and, where  available, local  level.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July 2014).

"Eligible  Crisis  or  Emergency"  means  an  event  that  has  caused,  or  is  likely  to
imminently cause,  a major adverse economic  and/or social impact to the Borrower,
associated  with a natural crisis or disaster, as determined  pursuant to Section I, Part
C,  paragraph  1 (f) of Schedule  2.

"Emergency  Expenditure"  means any  of the  Eligible Expenditures  set  forth in the
Emergency Financing  Plan in accordance  with the provisions  of Section  I, Part C,
paragraph  1(a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  required  for  the  activities
included in Part  3 of the  Project, including  cash grants and  cash transfers provided
through MLSS.

"Emergency  Financing  Plan"  means  the  plan  referred  to  in  Section  I,  Part  C,
paragraph  1(a)  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

the  Project
"Environmental  Management  Framework"  or  "EMF"  means 
Implementing  Entity's  framework  dated  November  18,  2015,  approved  by  the

-18-

Board and duly published  and available to the public on November 23,  2015,  which
contains  the guidelines  for the carrying  out of environmental  assessments  and  for
the  preparation  and  implementation  of  site-specific  Environmental  Management
Plans,  as well  as  the environmental  protection  measures  in respect of the  Project,
including  chance  finding  of cultural  property,  screening  for  natural  habitats,  and
potential  direct  and  indirect  environmental  impacts  from the  carrying  out  of the
Project,  recommendation  of  mitigation  measures  for  each  negative  impact
identified,  as  well  as measures  for  enhancing  each identified  positive  impact,  as
said framework may be amended  from time to time with the prior agreement  of the
Bank.

"Environmental  Management Plan" or "EMP"  means a site-specific  environmental
management  plan,  prepared  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  EMF,
describing  the  environmental  mitigation  measures  anticipated  for activities  under
the  Project  and  the  parties  responsible  for  monitoring  of  construction  and
operational  impacts.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set  forth in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"Inter-Ministerial  Steering Committee"  means the  steering committee  established
pursuant to  Schedule  2,  Section  I, Part A, paragraph  3 of this Agreement.

"MIND"  means the  Borrower's  Management  Institute  for National  Development,
or any  legal successor  thereto.

"MLGCD" means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Local Government  and Community
Development  or any  legal successor  thereto.

"MLSS"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Labour  and  Social  Security,  or  any
legal  successor thereto.

"MOEYI"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Education,  Youth  and  Information,
or any legal  successor  thereto.

"MTM"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Transport  and  Mining  or  any  legal
successor thereto.

"MEGJC" means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Economic Growth  and Job Creation
or any legal  successor thereto.

"National  Building  Code"  means  the  Borrower's  National  Building  Code  made
pursuant to  the proposed Building  Act, to  be enacted.

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

-19-

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

"NEPA"  means  the  National  Environment  and  Planning  Agency,  or  any  legal
successor  thereto.

"National  Risk Information  Platform"  means  a  system  where  all risk  data  can be
located  and  updated  in  a  centralized  platform  accessible  to  government  agencies
and the public.

"ODPEM"  means 
the  Office  of  Disaster  Preparedness  and  Emergency
Management,  established  pursuant  to  Section  3  of the  Disaster Risk Management
Act,  or any  legal successor  thereto.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  following  reasonable  operational  expenses,  which
would not have been incurred absent the Project, related to Project  implementation,
management,  and  supervision and  incurred by the  Borrower:  (i)  costs  for utilities,
maintenance  and  consumable  office  supplies,  printing  services,  communication
services,  commercial  banking  charges  and fees,  insurance,  vehicle  operation  and
maintenance,  and  salaries  of  core  professional  and  technical  staff  for  Project
management,  including a Program Manager, Supervision  Engineers and  specialists
in  the  areas  of climate  and  disaster  resilience,  safeguards  compliance,  finance,
procurement  and  related project  management  areas;  and  (ii)  transportation  costs,
travel and  per diem costs  for Project  staff who  will  carry out supervisory  activities
under the  Project.

"PIOJ" means  the Planning  Institute of Jamaica  or any legal  successor thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan" means  the Borrower's procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
December  10,  2015  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall be
updated  from time to  time  in accordance  with  the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  or  "JSIF" means  the  Jamaica  Social  Investment
Fund,  established  pursuant  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  Charter,  for
purposes of assisting  in building the Borrower's  capacity to  effectively  implement
community-based  programs  aimed  at  social  development,  or any  legal  successor
thereto.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Charter"  means the Memorandum  and  Articles  of
Association  of  JSIF,  both  dated  February  26,  1996,  by  which  JSIF  was
incorporated  under  the  Borrower's  Companies  Act,  as  said  charter  has  been
amended to the  date of this agreement.

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

-20-

"PIU"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Unit  within  the  Project  Implementing
Entity,  referred  to  in  section  L.A  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  and
created  on November 25,  2013.

"Project  Operational Manual"  means the manual  satisfactory to the Bank, referred
to  in  Section  I, Part  A  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  such manual  may be
amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  Bank's  prior  approval,  and  including  the
CERC  Action Plan.

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the
Project,  which taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have  their:  (i)  standard of living
adversely  affected;  or  (ii)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed, temporarily  or permanently;  or  (iii)  access  to  productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently;  or (iv) business, occupation,
work  or  place  of  residence  or  habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily  or
permanently.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or "RAP"  means  a  site-specific  resettlement  action
plan,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  prepared  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
"RPF"  describing  a  program  of actions,  measures  and  policies  for  compensation
of persons, including  compensation  arrangements,  budget  and cost  estimates,  and
sources  of funding, together  with adequate  institutional,  monitoring  and reporting
arrangements  capable of ensuring  proper implementation  of, and regular feedback
on compliance  with  its terms for each site.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Project  Implementing
Entity's  policy  framework  for Resettlement,  dated  March  26,  2015,  approved  by
the  Bank  and  duly  published  on  JSIF's  website  on  March  26,  2015  and  on  the
Bank's website on March 27,  2015, which contains:  (i) a comprehensive  overview
of  the  legal  framework  for  land  acquisition  and  resettlement  in  Jamaica,
differences  between  this  framework  and  the  requirements  of Bank  Safeguards
Policies,  and  measures  necessary  to  bridge the  gap between  the  legal  framework
and the Bank Safeguards Policies;  (ii) measures to screen out sub-projects that may
result  in significant  resettlement  impacts (more than ten families);  (iii) procedures
for the preparation  and  approval  of abbreviated  resettlement  plans;  (iv) details  on
the  overall  institutional  arrangements  for  resettlement  action  plan  preparation,
implementation,  monitoring  and  community  consultation;  (v)  an  entitlement
matrix  highlighting the types of compensation  and assistance  that will be provided
to  different  categories  of  affected  people,  along  with  details  on  what  valuation
techniques  will  be  used  to  calculate  the  value  of  assets  affected;  and  (vi)  a
description  of  grievance  redress  arrangements,  including  the  use  of community
based  conflict  resolution  mechanisms,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from
time  to time with the prior agreement  of the Bank.

-21-

35. 

36. 

.B  of
"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the Loan  available to  the Project Implementing Entity.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs,  as  shall have  been approved  by the Bank,
for training and  workshops  conducted  under the Project,  including tuition, travel
and subsistence  costs  for training and workshop  participants,  costs associated  with
securing  the  services  of trainers  and  workshop  speakers,  rental  of training  and
workshop  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of  training  and  workshop
materials,  and  other  costs  directly  related  to  training  course  and  workshop
preparation  and implementation  (but excluding  goods and  consultants'  services).

Section  H. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby modified  as follows:

1. 

In the Table of  Contents, the references  to  Sections,  Section  names and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
(a) 
amount  at the rate specified  in the  Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at the  rate  specified  in the  Loan  Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from
a  date  sixty  days  after the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually in arrears  on each Payment Date."

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

"19. 
in the  Loan Agreement  for the purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

