OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8788-GE

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for East West Highway  Corridor  Improvement  Project)

between

GEORGIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  as  of the  Signature  Date,  between  GEORGIA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank")  for the  purpose  of providing  additional  financing  for additional  activities  to the
Original  Project (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to this  Agreement).  The  Borrower  and the
Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply  to
and  form  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires  otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them in  the General  Conditions  or in the Appendix
to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower  the  amount  of sixteen  million  and  nine
hundred  thousand  Euros  (E16,900,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from
time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the
project  described  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds of the Loan in  accordance  with  Section

III  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

2.04. 

2.05. 

The  Front-end  Fee  is  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent  (0.25%)  of  the  Loan
amount.

The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter  of one percent (0.25%)  per annum
on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

The  interest  rate  is  the  Reference  Rate  plus  the  Variable  Spread  or  such  rate  as
may  apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment Dates are  May  I and November  1 in  each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the Loan  shall be  repaid in  accordance  with Schedule  3 to
this  Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end, the Borrower  shall:  (i)  carry out  Parts  A,  B.1,  C,  and D  of the Project  through
the Roads  Department  (RD);  and (ii)  carry  out  Part  B.2  of the Project through  the
Ministry  of Economy  and  Sustainable  Development  (MESD)  with  the  assistance
of RD;  all  in accordance  with the provisions  of Article  V  of the General  Conditions
and  Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The Additional Event of Suspension  consists  of the following,  namely  that the  Co-
financing Agreement  has  been amended,  suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived
so as to  affect materially  and  adversely the ability  of the  Borrower to perform  any
of its  obligations  under this Agreement.

4.02.  The Co-financing  Deadline for the  effectiveness  of the Co-financing Agreement  is

June  30,  2018.

4.03. 

The Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a
period  of 60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist  of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Borrower, through  RD,  has  submitted  to  the  Bank an  updated  Project
Operations  Manual  in  form  and  substance  acceptable  to the Bank.

The Project  Implementation  Agreement  between  MESD,  RD,  and  TRRC
has  been updated by  the parties  thereto in  a manner  acceptable to the  Bank.

The terms  of reference  for the  independent  auditors  referred  to  in  Section
5.09(b)(i)  of the  General  Conditions  have  been  prepared  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory to  the  Bank and the Bank has  given  its no-objection
on  said  terms  of reference.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and twenty  (120)  days  after

the  Signature Date.

-3-

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

For  purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions,

(a)  the Borrower's  address  is:

Ministry of Finance
16  Gorgasali  Street
0114  Tbilisi
Georgia;  and

(b)  the Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile: 
995322262423 

E-mail:
publicdebt@mof.ge

6.03. 

For  purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions,

(a)  the Bank's  address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b)  the Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 
248423(MCI)  or 

64145(MCI)

Facsimile: 
1-202-477-6391 

E-mail:
mtembon(@hworldbank.org

AGREED  as of the Signature  Date.

-4-

GEORGIA

By

Authori;V 

epresentative

Name: 

A  40 

4/&r/

Date: 

V  we 

s2

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

-Ale,r&q- 

e 

1ok

Title: 

e/a 

a 

c 

,

Date: 

V_cAr4Z&,c

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objectives  of the  Project are to:  (i) reduce  road  user costs  along  the East-West
Highway  Corridor  section  upgraded  under the  Project;  and (ii)  strengthen  the  capacity  of
the  RD  and  MESD  to  respectively  manage  the  road  network  and  provide  an  enabling
environment  to  improve  logistics  services.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

Part  A:  Improvement  and Asset  Management  of the East-West  Highway  Corridor

Upgrading  of approximately  11  km  of the existing  two-lane  East-West  Highway
Corridor to  a two-lane dual  carriageway  from  Chumateleti  to Khevi.

Carrying  out construction  supervision and  providing quality assurance services  for
all  civil  works  financed  under  the  Project  and  on  the  section  of the  road  from
Chumateleti  to Khevi  within  the East-West  Highway  Corridor.

Part  B:  Institutional  Strengthening

Providing  support  for  capacity  building to  the RD's  Intelligent  Transport  System
(ITS)  Unit,  including:  (i)  design  and  installation  of ITS  equipment  along  critical
locations  of the East-West  Highway  Corridor;  and  (ii)  the development  of annual
road  users'  satisfaction  surveys.

2. 

Providing  technical  assistance  to MESD  for the  following activities:

1. 

2. 

1. 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

the consolidation  and further  development  of a  national  logistics  strategy;

the creation  of a public-private  logistics steering committee  for developing
a sustainable  working relationship  with the private  sector;

the  implementation  of key  activities  identified  in  the  national  logistics
strategy developed under (i)  above, or  recommended  by the public-private
steering  committee  set  up  under  (ii)  above,  including,  inter  alia,  a
feasibility  study to  identify  priority  logistics  sites;  and

(iv) 

capacity  building 
management.

in 

relation 

to 

logistics  activities  and  Project

-6-

Part  C:  Project Management

Strengthening  the technical  capacity  of RD to carry  out the Project.

Part  D:  Preparation  of Future  Investments

Preparation  of  designs  and  supporting  studies  for  future  investments  for  the

development  of the road  network.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arran2ements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

C. 

The  Borrower,  through  RD,  shall  be  responsible  for the  overall  coordination  and
oversight  of the  Project  implementation.  To  that end,  the  Borrower  shall  provide
RD with  the resources  and staff necessary  for  implementing  the Project.

The Borrower,  through  RD,  shall maintain,  throughout  the implementation  of the
Project,  a Foreign Projects  Unit (FPU),  with a composition,  terms of reference,  and
resources,  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  MRDI,  shall:  (a)  operate  and  maintain the  TRRC  with  a
composition,  terms  of reference,  and  resources,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and
(b)  ensure  that  the  financial  management  responsibilities  under  the  Project  is
carried out  by TRRC  in accordance  with  the Project Implementation  Agreement.

Without  limitation to the provision  of Section  5.03  of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  adequate  budgetary  resources  are  made  available  for
the  Project  in  the  Borrower's  annual  budgets  in  respect  of each  year  of Project
implementation,  in  a manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.

Project Operations Manual

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower,  through  RD,  shall:  (a)  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
Project Operations  Manual  (POM);  and  (b)  not amend,  revise  or waive,  nor allow
to be  amended,  revised  or  waived,  the provisions  of said  POM  or any  part  thereof
without the  Bank's prior written  consent.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  POM  and  this  Agreement,  the
provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

Project  Implementation Agreement

For purposes  of coordinating  the  implementation  of the Project,  MESD,  RD,  and
TRRC  shall  update  and  maintain  their  respective  Project  Implementation
Agreement,  satisfactory to  the Bank, which  shall include,  inter alia, the obligations
set  forth under this Schedule  as applicable  to  RD, MESD  and TRRC,  respectively.

D. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

-8-

Safeguards

The  Borrower,  through  RD,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of the ESIA,  the ESMP,  the  RPF,  and RAP(s)  in  a
manner  satisfactory  to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  not  abrogate,  amend  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  abrogated,
amended  or  waived,  the ESIA,  the ESMP, the  RPF  or the RAP(s)  or  any provision
thereof, without prior  approval  in  writing  by  the Bank.

For  works  under the  Project,  if it  is determined  that Resettlement  is  involved,  the
Borrower, through  RD shall:  (i) prior to the carrying  out of any  said works,  prepare
and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  a  RAP  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (which  RAP(s)  shall  be
consistent  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of the  RPF);  (ii)  disclose  and  carry  out
consultations  for  said  RAP(s);  and  (iii)  thereafter,  implement  said  RAP(s)  in
accordance  with  its terms  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  through  the  RD,  shall:  (a)  maintain  satisfactory  terms  of reference
in  respect  of any  consultancy  in  connection  with  the Project  (including  review  of
the  feasibility  study  and  preparation  of detailed  engineering  design  described  in
Part D  of the Project) following the Bank's  review thereof and;  (b) ensure that such
terms  of reference  duly  incorporate  the  requirements  of the  Bank's  Safeguards
Policies  then  in  force,  as  applied  to  the  advice  conveyed  through  such technical
assistance.

Section  II. 

Pro*ect  Monitoring,  Reporting and  Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later  than  forty
five  days  after the end of each  calendar  semester,  covering  the  calendar  semester.

B. 

Mid-Term  Review

Without limitations to the provisions  set forth  in  Section II.A.  above, the  Borrower,
through  RD,  shall:

1. 

2. 

not  later  than  one  month  prior  to the  mid-term  review  referred  to  in  paragraph  2
herein  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  report,  in  such  scope  and  detail  as  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request,  on the progress  of the Project  as  of the date  of said  report;

not  later than December  31,  2019,  undertake with the Bank, a comprehensive  mid-
term  review  of the Project,  based  on the  report  mentioned  in  paragraph  I  herein,
indicators  and  the  Borrower's
including:  compliance  with  the  performance 
obligations  under this Agreement;  and

-9-

following  the  mid-term  review,  act  promptly  and  diligently  in  order  to take  any
corrective  action  deemed  necessary  to  remedy  any  shortcoming  noted  in  the
implementation  of the  Project,  or  to  implement  such  other  measure  as  may  be
required  in  furtherance  of the  objectives  of the  Project,  resulting  from  said  mid-
term review.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

3. 

A. 

1. 

Without  limitation upon  the  provisions  of Article  II  of the General  Conditions  and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  and  (b)  pay:  (i)  the  Front-end  Fee  and  (ii)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar premium;  in the amount  allocated  and,  if applicable,  up to the
percentage  set  forth against  each  category of the following table:

Category 

Amount of the  Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in  Euros) 

to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Goods,  works,  non-
consulting services,
consultants'  services,
Training, and  Incremental
Operating  Costs for the
Project  except  for  Part  B2

(2)  Front-end  Fee 

42,250 

Amount  payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

(3)  Interest Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 

0 

Amount  due pursuant to
Section  4.05(c)  of the
General  Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 

16,0000

-10-

B. 

I. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  made  prior  to  the  Signature  Date,  except  that withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  twenty  (20%)  of the total  Loan amount  may
be  made  for payments  made  up to  twelve months  for Eligible  Expenditures  under
Category  (1).

2. 

The Closing  Date is  December  31,  2023.

-11-

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table  sets  forth  the Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Level  Principal Repayments

Principal Payment  Date 

Installment  Share

On  each  May  I and November  1

Beginning  May  1, 2033 

through  May  1, 2041

On November  1, 2041 

5.56%

5.48%

-12-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  for purposes  of paragraph  5 of the Appendix
to the  General  Conditions:  (i) the "Guidelines  on Preventing and Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans  and IDA Credits  and Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011  and as of July  1, 2016,  for all
activities  under  the  Project  except  for  Consultants'  Services  required  for  the
construction  supervision  of the  section  of the  road  from  Chumateleti  to  Khevi
under  Part  A(2)  of  the  Project;  and  (ii)  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011"  for
Consultants'  Services  required  for the  construction  supervision  of the  section  of
the road from Chumateleti  to Khevi  under  Part A(2)  of the Project.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in the table  in  Section III.A. I of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement.

"Co-financier"  means  European  Investment  Bank (EIB).

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  16  of the  Appendix  to  the
General  Conditions,  an  approximate  amount  of  seventy-five  million  and  nine
hundred  thousand  euros (E75,900,000)  to  be  provided  by the  Co-financier to  assist
in  financing  the Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the
Borrower  and the Co-financier  providing  for the  Co-financing.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers",  dated January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of the
Project,  would suffer direct economic  and social impacts  resulting in Resettlement.

"East-West  Highway  Corridor"  means  the  highway  corridor  of  approximately
450  km,  comprising  of the sections  of highway  E-60  (between  Red  Bridge,  at  the
border  with  Azerbaijan,  to  Poti)  and  highway  E-70  (between  Poti  to  Sarpi,  at  the
border with Turkey),  all  within the Borrower's territory,  and as  highways E-60 and
E-70  are defined  in the European Agreement  on Main International  Traffic Arteries
(AGR)  signed  at Geneva  on November  15,  1975.

9. 

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact Assessment"  or "ESIA" means the Borrower's
environmental  and social  impact assessment  report  for the Project  applicable to  the

-13-

Project  and  to  the  works  referred  to  in  Section  I.D.3  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement and included  in the ESIA;  satisfactory to the Bank, and  disclosed in the
Borrower's territory  and  published in the Bank's external  website on April  5, 2017,
which  sets  forth,  inter alia, the mitigating,  monitoring  and  institutional  measures
to  be  taken  during  the  implementation  and  operation  of the  Project  to  offset  or
reduce  potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  to  levels  acceptable  to
the Bank.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  or  "ESMP"  means,  the  plan
included  in  the  ESIA,  prepared  by  the  Borrower  in  accordance  with  the  ESIA,
applicable  to the  Project and  to  the works  referred to  in  Section  I.D.3  of Schedule
2  to  this  Agreement;  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  setting
forth,  inter alia: (i)  the  measures  for  mitigating  the  environmental  risks  and
impacts  associated  with the  implementation  of Project  activities; (ii)  the measures
for eliminating,  offsetting  or mitigating any  adverse cultural  resources impact;  and
the
(iii) 
implementation  of said  plans,  as  said  plans  may  be  revised  from  time to  time with
the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or
schedules  to such  plans.

the  administrative  and  monitoring  arrangements 

for  ensuring 

"Foreign  Projects  Unit"  or  "FPU" means  the division  established  within  the  RD
responsible  for the  implementation  of projects  financed through  external  funding,
and  referred  to under  Section  I.A.2  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated  July  14,  2017,  with  the modifications  set  forth  in  Section  II  of
this  Appendix.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the reasonable  and  necessary  incremental
expenses  incurred  by  the  Borrower  with  respect  to  Project  implementation,
including:  management  and  monitoring  costs,  salaries  of  contracted  staff
(excluding  salaries  of the  Borrower's  civil  servants),  communication,  editing,
printing  and  publication,  translation,  vehicle  operation  and  maintenance,  bank
local  travel  costs  and  field  trip  expenses,  office  rentals,  utilities,
charges, 
equipment  and supplies.

"MESD"  means 
Development,  or any  legal  successor thereto.

the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Economy  and  Sustainable

"MRDI"  means 
Infrastructure,  or any legal  successor  thereto.

the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Regional  Development  and

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

-14-

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

"Original  Loan Agreement"  means  the loan  agreement  for the East West  Highway
Corridor Improvement  Project between the Borrower  and the Bank, dated February
10,  2016,  as  amended to the date  of this Agreement  (Loan No  8547-GE).

"Original  Project"  means  the Project described  in  Schedule  I  to the Original  Loan
Agreement.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the Borrower's  procurement  plan  for the Project,  dated
September  20,  2017  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be
updated  from time  to time  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for
Borrowers  under  Investment  Project  Financing",  dated  July  1, 2016  (revised  on
May  26,  2017).

in
"Project  Implementation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to 
Section  I.C  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  as  said  agreement  may  be  amended
from  time  to time  with  the approval  of the  Bank.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  or  "POM"  means  the  Borrower's  manual  dated
March  16,  2016,  as  revised,  acceptable  to the  Bank,  including  all appendices  and
schedules  thereto,  and  setting  forth  the  policies  and procedures  that  apply  to  the
carrying  out  of the  Project,  including,  inter alia: (a)  the  roles  and  responsibilities
of the RD, MESD,  and TRRC; (b)  the staffing requirements  for the Project;  (c)  the
estimated  implementation  schedule;  (d)  the procedures  for  accessing,  disbursing
the  procedures  for  Project
and  accounting  for  funds  under  the  Project;  (e) 
monitoring,  supervision  and  evaluation,  including  the  format  and  content  of the
Project Reports;  and (f)  the procurement and financial  management  procedures,  as
said  manual may  be  amended  from  time to  time  with  the  prior written  approval  of
the Bank.

"RD"  means  the  Borrower's  Roads  Department  of the  MRDI  responsible  for
managing  the Borrower's  road  network  or  any  legal  successor  thereto,  acceptable
to  the  Bank.

"Resettlement"  means:  (a)  the  involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i)  relocation
or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  and  (iii)  loss  of income
sources  or  means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not the affected  persons must  move  to
another  location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally  designated
parks  and  protected  areas  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihoods  of said
person.

-15-

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

inter  alia,  a  program  of  actions,  measures  and  policies 

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "RAP"  means  the  resettlement  action  plan,
including  any  abbreviated  resettlement  plan,  to  be  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  in
accordance  with  the  RPF  and  this  Agreement;  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and
for
containing, 
compensation  and  resettlement  of Displaced  Persons,  including compensation  and
resettlement  arrangements,  budget  and  cost  estimates,  and  sources  of funding,
together with adequate  institutional,  monitoring  and reporting  arrangements  capable
of ensuring  proper  implementation  of, and  regular feedback  on, compliance  with its
terms  for each  site.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  resettlement
policy  framework,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  applicable  to  the  Project  and  to  the
works  referred to in  Section  I.D.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement  and  included  in
the ESIA;  disclosed in  country on May  18,  2015 and in the Bank's external  website
on  May  27,  2015,  as  updated  and  disclosed  in  country  and  through  the  Bank's
setting  forth,  inter alia, the  modalities  for
external  website  on  April  5,  2017 
resettlement  and  compensation  of Displaced  Persons  under the Project.

the  World  Bank's  operational  policies  and
"Safeguards  Policies"  means 
procedures  then  in  force,  and  which  currently  are  set  forth  in  the  World  Bank's
Operational  Manual  under  OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,
7.50  and  7.60  as  said  manual  is  published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest  of the two  dates on  which the Borrower  and  the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such  definition  applied  to  all  references  to  "the
date  of the Loan  Agreement"  in the  General  Conditions.

in  connection  with
"Training"  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower 
carrying out training  activities  under the Project,  including travel costs  and per diem
for  local  trainees,  study  tours,  workshops,  conferences,  rental  of  facilities  and
equipment  and training  materials  and  related  supplies.

"TRRC"  means  the  Borrower's  Investment  Center  of Eurasian  Transport  Corridor
established  pursuant to  Decree No.  153,  dated  April  3, 2015,  or any  legal  successor
thereto  acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the  General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are  hereby modified  as  follows:

1 .

Section  5.13  (Procurement)  is  modified  to read  as  follows:

(a) 

All  goods,  works  and  services  required  for  the  Project  (except  those
referred  to  in  subparagraph  (b)  below)  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
in  accordance  with  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured 

-16-

(b) 

(i) 

requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Procurement  Regulations
(except  as referred  to  in subparagraph  (b)  below)  and the provisions  of the
Procurement Plan.

Consultants'  Services  required  for the construction supervision  of
the section  of the road from Chumateleti  to Khevi under Part  A(2)
of the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan
shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Sections  I,  11  and  IV  of the  Consultant  Guidelines
and  with the provisions  of this  paragraph.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this paragraph
to  describe  particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review
by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  required  for  the  construction
supervision  of the  section  of the  road  from  Chumateleti  to Khevi
under Part  A(2)  of the  Project  refer to  the corresponding  method
IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
III, 
described 
Guidelines,  as the  case may  be.

in  Sections 

II, 

The  following  method  may  be  used  for  the  procurement  of
consultants'  services  required  for the  construction  supervision  of
the section  of the road from  Chumateleti  to Khevi under  Part A(2)
of the Project,  namely  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall
be  subject  to  the  Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall
be  subject  to Post Review  by  the Bank.

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

