OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8736-AR

Loan Agreement

(Salado Integrated  River Basin Management  Support Project)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

PROVINCE  OF BUENOS  AIRES

Dated  b&wMberC 

2-4 

,201_

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

i4 1L 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  and  PROVINCE  OF  BUENOS  AIRES
("Borrower").  The Bank and the  Borrower  hereby  agree as  follows:

201- 

f( 

t 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower, on  the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this Agreement,  the amount  of three hundred  million Dollars,  (300,000,000),  as  such
amount may  be converted  from  time to  time through  a Currency  Conversion in  accordance
with the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the
project described  in  Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for each  Interest Period  shall be  at a rate equal  to the
Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the Variable  Spread;  provided,  however,  that
the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero  percent  (0%)  per  annum;  and
provided  furthermore  that, upon  a Conversion  of all or any  portion of the principal  amount
of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such
amount  shall be determined  in accordance with the  relevant provisions of Article  IV of the
General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if any amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in
Section  3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment Dates are  March  15  and  September  15  in  each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3  to  this Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  and  (ii)  a  change  of the
interest rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding from  a Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed Rate,  or vice
versa;  or (B)  all or any portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on a Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting  of limits  on the Variable  Rate or the
Reference  Rate  applicable  to all or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding by the establishment  of an Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower,  through  Mol,  MoE,  ADA  and  DPOH,  with  the  assistance  of the  Collaboration
Entities  for  Part  1  of the  Project,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article V of the  General Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower and  the Bank shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall  ensure that the Project
is  carried  out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event of Suspension  consists of the following,  namely,  that the  Water Law
has been amended,  suspended,  abrogated, repealed  or waived  so as to  affect materially and
adversely,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  the  ability  of the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
obligations under this Agreement.

4.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  any  event
specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
Operational  Manual has  been  adopted in  a  manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

5.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date  one hundred  and twenty (120)  days after the date  of
this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is its  Minister  of Economy.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Calle  8  entre  45 y  46
BI900TGR,  La Plata
Province  of Buenos Aires
Argentine  Republic

Facsimile:
(+54)  221  429 4503

6.03. 

The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  QrJ 
above  written.

h(Qd- 

,as  of the  day  and  year first

-4-

By

By

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

uut 

rizemI  Representative)

Name: 

3 e Se

Title: 

COUO4 

itE

PROVINCE  OF BU  OS AIRES

(Auted 

Representative)

Name: 
Title:  MAS 

qe  Ak4eclo  Ecxoom  cvolJ
o ow  Eu2nioalU

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project is  to  enhance  flood  protection  and  strengthen  the  capacity  of
the  institutions  responsible  for  integrated  water  resources  monitoring  and  management  in  the
Salado River Basin.

The  Project  consists  of the  following parts:

Part 1:  Integrated Water Resources  Management

1.1. 

1.2. 

1.3. 

1.4. 

2.1. 

2.2. 

Operationalize  the  PMI,  through  the  preparation  of  a  complementary,  participatory,
updated  and  short-term  water  resources management  plan.

Provision  of support  to  strengthen  ADA's, DPOH's,  OPDS'  and the  Borrower's  Ministry
of Agroindustry's  capacity for environmental  management  in the SRB,  through,  inter alia:
(i)  provision  of technical  assistance  to  improve  water  quality  control  and  environmental
services  for water  resources  management;  and  (ii)  the  development  of an  environmental
and wetlands  management  plan  for the SRB.

Strengthen  the  capacity  of ADA,  river  basin  committees  and  DPOH,  through,  inter alia:
(i) the  carrying out of a review  of cost recovery  mechanisms  for ADA;  (ii)  the carrying out
the  issuance  of  improved
of  communications  campaigns  among  water  users;  (iii) 
regulations  governing  river  basin  committees  and  drainage  associations;  and  (iv)  the
provision  of technical  assistance  and  training  to  strengthen  DPOH's  management  and
technical capacity.

(i) Development  of a hydrometeorological  monitoring network  for the  SRB; (ii)  provision
of support  to  the  Borrower  to  improve  its  capacity  to  manage  the  hydrometeorological
monitoring  network  mentioned  in (i) herein;  and (iii)  the  development  of decision-making
tools  for  risk  management,  including  the  development  of  operational  manuals,  risk
prevention  and  contingency plans.

Part 2: River  Training Works  and  Upgrading Associated  Infrastructure

Carrying  out  of river  training  works  on  approximately  34  km  in  Section  IV-1-B  of the
Salado River to  augment  its cross section.

(i)  Carrying  out  of works  to  adapt  seven  existing  bridges  to  the  augmented  river  cross-
section mentioned  in Part  2 of the Project to  enhance their hydraulic  capacity  and increase
their  resilience  to  extreme  floods;  and  (ii)  the  setting  up  of two  recreational  beach  areas
(balnearios) in the Borrower's  municipalities  of Roque  Perez and  Villanueva.

-6-

Part 3:  Project Implementation,  Supervision  and Communication

3.1. 

3.2. 

Provision  of support to:  (i)  the  UCEPO,  to  strengthen  its Project  management's  capacity,
including the  carrying  out  of the  Project  audits;  and  (ii)  DPOH  to  increase  its  capacity  to
supervise  the river  works  referred to  in Part  2  of the  Project.

Carrying  out of communication  activities  and  provision  of technical  assistance  to  support
the Users  Oversight Committee  and the development of a grievance  redress  mechanism  for
the  Project.

-7-

SCHEDULE2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

B. 

1 .

The  Borrower,  through  Mol,  shall  operate  and  maintain,  at  all  times  during  Project
implementation,  a  Project  implementation  unit  ("UCEPO"), with  the  structure,  functions
and responsibilities  set forth  in the  Operational  Manual.

The  Borrower,  through  Mol,  shall  ensure  that  UCEPO  is,  at  all  times  during  Project
implementation,  assisted  by professional  staff (including,  inter alia, a Project  coordinator,
a  procurement  specialist,  a  technical  specialist,  an  environmental  specialist,  a  social
specialist  and  a  monitoring  and  evaluation  specialist)  and  administrative  staff,  all  in
numbers  and  with terms  of reference,  and qualifications  and  experience,  acceptable  to the
Bank.

Prior to  the  carrying  out  of any  given  activity  under  Part  I  of the  Project  which  requires
the  participation  of any  Collaboration  Entity,  the  Borrower,  through  UCEPO,  shall  enter
into  an  agreement  (the  Collaboration  Agreement)  with  the  corresponding  Collaborating
Entity,  all under terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter
alia, the responsibilities  of the pertinent  Collaboration  Entity for assisting the Borrower  in
the implementation  of Part  1 of the Project.

The Borrower, through  UCEPO, shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under
each  Collaboration  Agreement  in such  manner  as  to  protect the  interests  of the Borrower
and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall
otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or fail
to  enforce any  Collaboration  Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

Operational  Manual

Without  limitation  to  the provisions  of Section 3.01  of this Agreement,  the Borrower  shall
carry  out  the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  a  manual  (the  Operational
Manual),  acceptable  to  the Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter alia: (i)  the  procedures  for the
carrying  out, monitoring  and evaluation  of the  Project;  (ii)  the  organizational  structure  of
the  Project,  including  the  functions  and  responsibilities  of Mol,  MoE,  ADA,  DPOH  and
the  Project  procurement  and  financial  management
the  Collaboration  Entities;  (iii) 
requirements  and procedures;  (iv)  the ESIA,  the ESMP  and the IPPF;  (v) the  environmental
and  social  provisions  to  be  included  in  the  bidding  documents  for the  investments  to  be
carried out under the Project;  (vi) the chart of accounts  and internal  controls for the Project;
(vii) the  model form  for the Collaboration  Agreements;  (viii) the Action  Plan;  and (ix) the
Project  monitoring  indicators.

2. 

D. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not amend,  terminate or waive
the  Operational  Manual or any of its provisions.  In case  of any  conflict  among the terms of
the  Operational  Manual  and  those  of this  Agreement,  the  terms  of this  Agreement  shall
prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The Borrower shall  ensure that the  Project  is carried out in accordance  with the  provisions
of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Without  limitation to the provisions  of Section 3.01  of this Agreement,  the Borrower,  shall
carry out the  Project in accordance  with  the Environmental  and  Social  Impact Assessment
(ESIA),  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan (ESMP)  and  the Indigenous  Peoples
Planning  Framework  (IPPF).

With  respect to  the  carrying out  of any  activities  under  Part  I of the  Project,  and  when  so
determined  by  the  Bank as  set forth  in the  IPPF,  the  Borrower,  through  Mol,  MoE,  ADA
and  DPOH, shall:  (a)  prior to  the  carrying out of any  said  activity, prepare  and/or cause to
be prepared  and  furnish  to the  Bank, an  indigenous  peoples'  plan,  acceptable  to  the Bank
(which  plan  shall  be  consistent  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of  the  IPPF);  and  (b)
thereafter,  adopt  and  implement  (and/or  cause  to  be  adopted  and  implemented)  said
indigenous  peoples'  plan  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  in  a manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  Mol,  MoE,  ADA  and  DPOH,  shall  ensure  that  the  terms  of
reference  for  any consultancies  related to  the technical  assistance  provided under  Part  1 of
the  Project, shall  be acceptable  to  the  Bank  following  its  review thereof and,  to  that  end,
such  terms  of reference  shall  duly  incorporate  the  requirement  of the  Bank's  Safeguard
Policies then  in force,  as applied to  the advice conveyed  through  such technical  assistance.

4. 

(a) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Section  I.D.1  above,  and  for  purposes  of
carrying  out the  physical  works  under  Part  2  of the  Project  as  determined  by  the
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  or  shall  cause  the  contractor  of the  works  (as  the  case
may  be)  to,  prior to  the  initiation  of any  physical  works  within  any  given  area of
the  Salado  River,  enter  into  an  agreement  (the  Voluntary  Agreement)  with  the
relevant  landowner  of the property  adjacent to  said  area,  on terms  and  conditions
acceptable  to the  Bank,  and  as detailed in the  ESMP.

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each
Voluntary  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower
and  the  Bank and to accomplish  the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall
otherwise  agree, the Borrower  shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate, terminate,  waive
or  fail  to  enforce  any Voluntary  Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

-9-

5. 

E. 

1. 

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that any  works  under  Part  2 of the  Project  do not involve  any
Resettlement.

Other Undertakings

The  Borrower,  through  Mol  (through  UCEPO),  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of the
Action  Plan, in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reportin2  and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on the basis of indicators  acceptable to the Bank. Each  Project Report  shall cover the period
of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank not later than  forty  five  days
after the end  of the period  covered by such  report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower,  through  MoE,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation on the provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the Borrower, through  MoE,
shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than forty  five  days  after  the  end  of each
calendar semester, interim unaudited  financial reports for the Project covering the semester,
in form  and  substance  satisfactory to the Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  MoE,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited
Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall be furnished  to the  Bank not later than  six
months  after the  end  of such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

All  goods, works,  non-consulting  services  and  consulting services  required for the Project
and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set forth or referred  to in the Procurement  Regulations and the  provisions
of the Procurement  Plan.

-10-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

The  Borrower,  through  MoE, may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with
the  provisions  of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including 
the
"Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Investment  Project  Financing"  dated  February  2017,  as
revised  from  time to  time by  the  Bank  and  as made applicable  to  this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set forth in the table  in paragraph
2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be financed
out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts of the Loan to
each  Category,  and the percentage  of expenditures  to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in each  Category.

Category 

(1) Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services, 
consultants'  services,
Training  and  Operating  Costs
for  the Project
(2)  Front-end  Fee 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

299,250,000

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

100%

750,000 

0 

Amount payable pursuant  to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount due  pursuant  to
Section  2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

(3)  Interest Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate  Collar  premium 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

300,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be made  for
payments  made  prior to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount not to exceed  $60,000,000  may be made  for payments  made prior to this
date  but  on  or after  March  3, 2017,  for  Eligible  Expenditures  (but  in  no  case  after more
than one  year before  the date of this Agreement).

2. 

The  Closing  Date  is  December  30, 2022.

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of paragraph  2 of this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  each
Disbursed  Amount in  semiannual  installments  payable  on  each  March  15  and  September
15,  the  first installment  to  be  payable  on the  twelfth  (12th)  Payment  Date  following  the
Maturity  Fixing Date  for the Disbursed  Amount  and  the  last installment  to  be  payable  on
the  fifty-fifth - (55th)  Payment Date  following the Maturity  Fixing Date for the  Disbursed
Amount.  Each installment  except for the last one  shall be equal to  one-forty fourth (1/44th)
of the Disbursed Amount.  The last installment  shall  be equal to the  remaining outstanding
amount of the  Disbursed Amount.

If any  one  or more  installments  of principal  of the  Disbursed  Amount would,  pursuant to
the  provisions  of  paragraph  I  of  this  Schedule,  be  payable  after  March  15,  2050,  the
Borrower  shall  also pay  on  such  date the aggregate  amount  of all  such  installments.

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Loan  Parties  of the  amortization  schedule  for each  Disbursed
Amount  promptly after the  Maturity  Fixing Date  for the  Disbursed Amount.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 through 3 of this Schedule,  in the event  of
a  Currency  Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  a  Disbursed  Amount  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the Bank by  multiplying such amount  in its currency of denomination  immediately  prior to
the  Conversion by either:  (i) the  exchange  rate that reflects  the  amounts of principal  in the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions of this Schedule  shall apply separately to the  amount denominated  in each Loan
Currency.

-12-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Action  Plan"  means a  Borrower's  plan,  dated March  3,  2017,  acceptable  to the  Bank, for
the  implementation  of  key  activities  under  Part  1  of  the  Project,  as  said  plan  may  be
amended  from  time  to time  with the  agreement of the  Bank.

"ADA"  means Autoridad del Agua, the  Borrower's  Water Authority,  established  pursuant
to  the Water  Law (as  defined  below),  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to  the Bank.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011  and  as of July  1, 2016.

"Bank  Safeguard  Policies"  means the  Bank's operational  policies  and  procedures  set  forth
in  the  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04,  4.07,  4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,
4.36 and  4.37,  as  said  manual  is published  under www.WorldBank.org/opinanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Collaboration  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Collaboration  Entities"  means  any  entity  that  will  provide  technical  support  to  the
Borrower  in  the  carrying  out  of  Part  I  of  the  Project,  including:  (i)  the  National
Meteorological  Service  (Servicio Meteorol6gico Nacional); (ii)  the  National  Institute  of
Agricultural  Technology  (Instituto Nacional de  Tecnologia  Agropecuaria); (iii)  the
National  Water  Institute  (Instituto Nacional del Agua);  (iv)  the  Borrower's  Agency  for
Sustainable  Development  (Organismo Provincial para el Desarrollo Sostenible); (v)  the
Borrower's  Ministry of Agroindustry;  and (vi)  any other private or public entity  acceptable
to  the  Bank.

"DPOH"  means  Direcci6n Provincial de  Obra Hidrdulica, the  Borrower's  Provincial
Department  of Hydraulic  Works,  or any successor thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment"  or  "ESIA",  means  the  Borrower's
environmental  and  social  impact  assessment,  including  its  respective  environmental  and
social management  plan ("ESMP"), dated  February 2017  and  disclosed  on  the Borrower's
website  on  February  15,  2017  and  in  the  Bank's  website  on  February  21,  2017,  which
describes  the  Borrower's  actions  to  be  undertaken,  or  cause to  be undertaken,  in  order  to
address  any  adverse  environmental  or social  impact  resulting  from  the  carrying  out of the
works  under  the  Project,  as  said  documents  may  be  amended  from time  to  time  with  the
agreement of the  Bank,  and which  include,  inter alia: (a) the estimated environmental  and
social  impacts of the river training  works to be  financed under Part  2 of the Project;  (b)  the

-13-

environmental  and  social responsibilities of DPOH  and the contractors  to be hired  to carry
out the river training  works  and those  on  upgrading associated  infrastructure  under  Part 2
of the Project;  and (c)  the basic alignments of the environmental  and wetlands management
plan  for the  SRB  to  be prepared  under  Part  1 of the  Project.

"ESMP" means the  environmental  and  social  management  plan for  the  Project,  which  is
an  annex of the  ESIA  (defined  above),  which  sets  forth  inter alia, the  environmental  and
social  responsibilities of DPOH and the contractors to be  hired to carry out the river training
works  under  Part  2  of  the  Project,  including  a  voluntary  agreements  protocol  which
specifies  the  necessary agreements  that the  Borrower  shall enter into  with the  land owners
affected  by the  works  under  Part 2 of the  Project, as  the  same may  be amended  form  time
to time.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated March  12,  2012,  with  the modifications  set  forth  in
Section  II of this Appendix.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or  "IPPF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  dated  February  2017,  disclosed  on  the  Borrower's  website  on
February  15,  2017,  and  in  the  Bank's  website  on  February  21,  2017,  setting  forth  the
indigenous  peoples policy framework applicable  to all the  activities to be carried  out under
Part  I of the  Project and  the  basis  and  procedures to  prepare  specific  indigenous  peoples'
plans during Project  implementation,  as the same may  be  amended from time to  time.

"MoE"  means  Ministerio de  Economia, the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Economy,  or  any
successor  thereto acceptable  to the Bank.

"Mol"  means Ministerio de Infraestructura y Servicios Ptblicos, the  Borrower's  Ministry
of Infrastructure  and  Public Services,  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"OPDS"  means  Organismo Provincial para el Desarrollo Sostenible, the  Borrower's
Entity  for  Sustainable  Development,  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.
23/07,  dated  December  12,  2007.

"Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  incremental  recurrent  expenditures  that would  not
have  been  incurred  by the  Borrower  and/or the  Collaboration  Entities  absent the  Project,
for Project administration costs (including office rent), operation and maintenance  of office
equipment,  banking  fees,  travel  costs,  salaries  and  per  diems  of civil  servants  and  or
employees  of the  Collaboration  Entities  assigned to carry  out activities under  the Project.

"Operational  Manual"  means the  Borrower's  manual  acceptable  to the  Bank referred  to  in
Section I.B. I of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement,  as said manual  may  be amended  from time
to  time with the  agreement  of the Bank.

"PMI"  means  Plan de  Manejo Integral de  la Cuenca del Rio  Salado, the  Borrower's
Integrated  Salado  River Basin  Management  Plan,  dated  March  2000.

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

-14-

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
February  24,  2017  and  provided  for under  Section  IV of the  Procurement  Regulations,  as
the  same may  be  updated from  time  to time  in agreement  with the  Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations 
Borrowers  under Investment  Project  Financing",  dated July  1, 2016.

for

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of land  under  Part  2  of the
Project,  which taking causes affected  persons to have their:  (i) standard of living adversely
affected;  or  (ii)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including  premises,  agricultural
and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or movable  asset  acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily
or  permanently;  or  (iii)  access  to  productive  assets  adversely  affected,  temporarily  or
permanently;  or (iv)  business,  occupation,  work or place  of residence  or habitat  adversely
affected,  temporarily or permanently.

"Salado  River"  means Rio Salado, a tributary  river to  the  La Plata river,  which  runs  from
west  to  east and  that  ends in the  Samborombon  Bay,  which  is  part  of the  Rio  de la  Plata's
estuary.

"Salado  River  Basin"  or  "SRB"  means,  for  purposes  of  the  Project,  the  portion  of
approximately  170,000  square  kilometers  of the  drainage  area  of the  Salado  River,  which
is located  within  the territorial jurisdiction  of the  Borrower  and  defined  in the  PMI.

"Section  IV-1-B"  means the distance  of the  Salado River  between reference  points  311.76
and  346.40.

"Training"  means  expenditures  (other than  those  for  consulting  services)  incurred  by the
Borrower, through  MoE, Mol,  ADA  and  DPOH, to finance  reasonable transportation  costs
and  per  diem  of trainees  and  trainers,  training  registration  fees,  training  materials,  and
rental  of training  facilities  and  equipment  under Part  1 of the Project.

"UCEPO" means the unit referred  to  in Section  I.A. I of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Users  Oversight  Committee"  means  a committee  representing  landowners  whose  land  is
located  in  the  Section  IV-1-B,  to  be  established  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the
Borrower's  Decree No.  148,  dated December  30,  2003.

"Voluntary  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section  I.D.4(a)  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

"Water  Law"  means  the  Borrower's  law  No.  12.257,  dated  January  26,  1999,  and  duly
published  in the  Borrower's  official  gazette  on February  9,  1999.

-15-

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the  General  Conditions

The General  Conditions are  hereby modified  as follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

In the  Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and Section  numbers
are  modified to  reflect the modifications  set forth  in the  paragraphs  below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee on  the  Loan  amount  at the  rate

(a) 
specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower shall pay the  Bank a  commitment  charge  on the  Unwithdrawn Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement  to the respective  dates on  which amounts  are withdrawn  by  the Borrower  from
the  Loan Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall be  payable  semi-annually
in arrears on each  Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified, as necessary,  to  reflect  the modification  set forth  in paragraph 2  above.

The Appendix  is modified  by  inserting  a  new paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering the  subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the  purpose of Section  3.0 1(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the Appendix,  the  definition
of "Front-end  Fee"  is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.01  with  Section 3.01
(a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the Appendix,  the definition
of the term  "Loan  Payment" is modified to  read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including (but  not limited
interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

-16-

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix, the  definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment Charge  are"  after the  word "interest".

