OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国日日日日国国日日日日国日日日国国
日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日

LOAN  NUMBER  8773-AO

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing for the Local  Development  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF  ANGOLA

betMeen

snd

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCT10N
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

February  06 

,2018

国国日国国国国国国国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日園日日国日日日日日国国園国園国国国国日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日日国日日日■■■国国園■■国国
国日国国国国国国日国国日日日日日

LOAN  NUMBER  8773-AO

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Fphrtj;j[V  06 

AGREEMENT  dated 

9  2018,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
ANGOLA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of providing  additional  financing  for
activities  related  to  the  Original  Project  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).
The  Borrower  and the  Bank hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the Appendix  to this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used  in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them  in the  General  Conditions  or  in the Appendix
to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  11  - LOAN

2.01. 

in 

to 

this  Agreement 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the ten'ns  and conditions  set  forth or
referred 
the  amount  of  seventy  million  Dollars,
($70,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the project  described  in  Schedule  I  to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in accordance  with  Section

IV  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge  payable  by the Borrower  shall be equal  to one  quarter of

one  percent (0.25%)  per annum  on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal to the Reference  Rate for the Loan Currency  plus the Fixed Spread;  provided,
however,  that the interest  payable  shall  in no event  be  less  than  zero  percent  (0%)
per annum; and  provided furthen-nore  that, upon a Conversion  of all  or any portion
of the principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during
the Conversion  Period  on such amount  shall be  determined in  accordance  with the
relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the
foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when
due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  Q 0)  days,  then  the

-2-

interest payable by  the Borrower  shall instead  be  calculated  as provided  in  Section
3.02(e) of the  General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates  are  March  15  and September  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal amount of the Loan shall  be repaid  in accordance  with the provisions
of Schedule  3  to  this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any of the following  Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a change  of the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  and  (ii)  a change  of the  interest  rate  basis applicable to:  (A)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a  Variable Rate  to a  Fixed Rate,  or  vice versa;  or (B) all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Spread; and  (iii) the  setting of
limits  on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following the  Execution Date  for an  Interest Rate Cap  or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from the  Loan  Account and  pay to  itself the  amounts
required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)
of the General  Conditions  up to the amount allocated  from time  to time for
the purpose  in the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the

Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions
and the Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project  is carried  out  in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as to  affect  materially  and adversely  the  ability
of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the
Project Agreement.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

5.02. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  that
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower  and  the
Project  Implementing  Entity.

The Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of the following, namely  that the Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or ratified  by  the Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  its terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  VI- REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01.  The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its minister  responsible  for finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministrio das Finanqas
Largo da Mutamba
Luanda
Repiblica de Angola

Facsimile:

+244-222-33-8548

OP7-

-4-

6.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Luanda,  Republic  of Angola,  as  of the  day  and  year  first  above

written.

REPUBLIC  OF ANGOLA

By:

By:

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

"X4C 

__ 

__

Title: 

WNrilW 

PA?4AA4#

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Rpsentative

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objectives  of the Project are: (a)  to improve access  of poor  households to basic
services  and  economic  opportunities;  and  (b)  to  enhance  local  institutional  capacities
among the Borrower's  municipalities.

The Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part A:  Local  Social  and Economic  Infrastructure

Provision  of support  to  Selected  Municipalities,  in  the  form of Municipal  Grants,
for the construction  and rehabilitation  of basic and  social  infrastructure,  including
goods  and related  essential  services.

Implementation  of a  Productive  Safety  Net  Program  (Cash  for  Work)  in  Selected
Municipalities  for  eligible  Beneficiaries  to  provide  them with  temporary  income
support  while  they  transition  to  more  permanent  sources  of income,  through  the
provision  of Labor  Payments.

Provision  of Direct  Cash Transfers  to  selected  vulnerable  households  in  Selected
Municipalities

Part B:  Local  Economic  Development

Provision  of  support  to  improve  the  business  development  skills  of  selected

producer groups and their  participation  in local markets,  such program  to  include:

Provision  of  technical  assistance  to  Municipal  Administrations  and  Municipal
Consultative  Councils to  prepare  strategies  for the coordination  of their economic
development  and business  support  activities.

Provision  of technical  assistance to  selected provinces  to  conduct  sector  and value
chain  studies.

Preparation  of the Matching  Grants  Manual, and provision  of Training required  for
said  purpose.

Provision  of  Matching  Grants  to  selected  Beneficiaries  for  Local  Economic
Development  Sub-Projects,  for the  improvement  of the economic  development  of
Selected  Municipalities.

Provision  of  technical  assistance  and  Training  to  local  producer  groups  and
business development  service providers  to enhance  their productivity  and  improve

I. 

2. 

3. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

-6-

6. 

7. 

their  processes,  product  quality,  service  delivery  and  business  management  and
marketing capabilities.

Carrying out of workshops  for government personnel,  local  producers and business
leaders  aimed  at 
information  on
microfinance.

fostering  partnerships  and  sharing  of 

Promoting  the  productive  inclusion  of poor  and  vulnerable  households,  through:
(a)  the  carrying  out  of capacity  building  activities  on  soft  skills,  basic  financial
management,  financial  literacy  and entrepreneurship,  including  the  preparation  of
simplified  business  plans;  (b)  the  provision  of  Productive  Inclusion  Grants  to
selected  Beneficiaries;  and  (c)  provision  of  technical  assistance  and  extension
services.

Part C:  Local  Institutional Stren2thenin2

1  .

Municipal  Planning and  Management

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

Enhancing  the  capacity  of local  public  entities  and  civil  society  in  participatory
planning,  management  and  monitoring  of  basic  public  service  delivery  and
expenditure  management;  such  program  to  consist  of the following:

technical 

assistance 

to  prepare, 

and  Training 

provision  of 
to  Municipal
Administrations  and  Municipal  Consultative  Councils  to  strengthen  their
implement  and  monitor  and  evaluate  Local
ability 
investment  plans  to  develop  and
Development  Plans  and  municipal 
implement participatory  development  planning,  investment  execution  and
monitoring  and  public  expenditure  management  mechanisms,  consistent
with the  Borrower's  Participatory  Investment  Cycle;  and

provision of technical  assistance and Training to the Borrower's  municipal
public  health  and  education  service  providers  to  enhance  their  technical
and administrative  capacity in  the provision  of public  services.

2. 

Project  Management,  Local  Development  Policy, 
Monitoring

Implementation,  and

Provision  of  technical  assistance  and  Training  for  staff  of the  Project
Implementing  Entity and of other  public agencies  to: (i)  further their skills
in local  development and participatory  governance;  and  (ii)  facilitate  their
implementation  of the Safeguard  Documents  under the  Project.

(b) 

Carrying out  of an  institutional  review  of the  Project Implementing  Entity
with  a view to  its transformation  into a local  development  agency.

-7-

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Monitoring  and  evaluation  of  GAAP  implementation  by  Borrower's
public  agencies  and civil  society.

Management,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the Project.

Development  of a grievance  redress mechanism  to get feedback  from local
populations  on the  implementation  of the different  activities.

3. 

Provision  of Support to ADECOS

Provision  of support to ADECOS  for  the mapping  of existing  social  services and
the referral  of potential  beneficiaries  to  those services  in  Selected  Municipalities,
including  the  provision  of training  and  equipment  for ADECOS  and  supervisors,
the development  of protocols  and  tools  for  registering  potential  beneficiaries  and
Operating Costs  for  intermediation  services.

OLi

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

National  Level

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  National  Committee,  throughout  the
period  of  Project 
implementation,  with  composition,  functions  and
resources,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  be  responsible  for  providing  policy
and strategic guidance for,  and coordination  of activities  under the  Project.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  the  National  Committee  is  headed  by  its
minister  of  state  administration,  and  comprised  of  representatives
including  the  Borrower's  Ministries  responsible  for  finance,  territorial
administration  and  rural development.

2. 

Provincial  Level

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  Provincial  Council,  throughout  the  period  of
Project  implementation,  with  mandate,  composition  (including  representatives  of
each  of  the  Borrower's  provinces  and  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity)  and
resources  acceptable  to  both  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  to  be  responsible  for
coordinating  the  allocation  of resources  for  the  Local  Development  Subprojects
and Project activities to be carried  out within  each of the Borrower's  provinces  and
municipalities.

3. 

Municipal  Level

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  Municipality  shall  maintain  throughout  the
period  of  Project  implementation,  with  terms  of  reference,  composition  (or
staffing) and  resources  acceptable  to  both the  Bank  and the Borrower:

a  municipal  administration  (staffed  by  qualified  professionals),  to  be
responsible  for the development  and implementation  of the municipality's
Local  Development  Plan ("Municipal  Administration");

a  municipal  consultative  council  comprised  of  representatives  of  the
relevant  Municipal
to  assist 
municipality's 
implementing,  and  monitoring  and
Administration 
evaluating the  implementation  of its  Local  Development  Plan,  consistent
("Municipal  Consultative
Investment  Cycle 
with  the  Participatory 
Council");  and

society, 
civil 
in  developing, 

the 

B. 

1. 

2. 

D. 

1  .

2. 

-9-

(c) 

an  operation  and  maintenance  user  committee,  comprised  of  users  of
infrastructure  developed  under  the  municipality's  Local  Development
Subproject,  to  be  responsible  for  the  oversight  of  the  operation  and
maintenance  of  such  infrastructure  ("Operation  and  Maintenance  User
Committee").

Subsidiary Agreement

To facilitate  the  carrying out  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make the  proceeds
of the Loan available  to the Project  Implementing  Entity on  a grant basis, under  an
agreement  (the  "Subsidiary  Agreement")  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  under terms and conditions  approved  by  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  a
manner as to protect the  interests of the  Borrower and  the Bank and  to accomplish
the  purposes  of  the  Financing.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Borrower  shall  not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or waive  the Subsidiary  Agreement  or
any of its provisions.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The Borrower  shall  ensure that  the Project  is implemented  in accordance  with the
ESMF,  RPF,  and  IPPF,  and  except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,
shall  not  amend  or waive  any  provision  of the aforementioned  documents.

Where  required  in terms  of the  ESMF,  IPPF  or  the  RPF,  as the  case  may  be,  the
Borrower shall  proceed to  have  an ESMP,  an  IPP  or a RAP,  as  the case  may  be:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

prepared  in accordance  with  the ESMF,  IPPF  or RPF,  as the case  may  be;

submitted 
the  Bank 
to 
consultations  as  required,

for  review  and  approval,  and 

for  public

all  applicable  resettlement  measures  set  forth in  the applicable  RAP  shall
have  been  fully  executed,  including  the  full  payment  of  compensation
prior  to  displacement  and/or  the  provision  of relocation  assistance  to  all
displaced  persons;  and

(d) 

thereafter  adopted  on  a timely basis for the purposes  of implementation  of
the  Project.

-10-

The  Borrower  shall  ensure or caused  to be  ensured, that the terms  of reference  for
any  consultancy  in  respect of any Project  activity  shall  be satisfactory  to  the Bank
following  its  review  thereof  and,  to  that  end,  such  terms  of reference  shall  duly
incorporate  the  requirements  of the  Bank's  Safeguard  Policies  then  in  force,  as
applied  to the  advice conveyed  through  such technical  assistance.

Without  limitation  upon its  other  reporting  obligations  under  this Agreement,  the
Borrower  shall  collect,  compile  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  on  a  quarterly  basis,
reports  on the status  of compliance with the ESMF, the RPF, the IPPF, the ESMPs,
IPPs  and  RAPs  as  the  case  may  be,  given  details  of:  (a)  measures  taken  in
furtherance  of  the  above;  (b)  conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to
interfere with the smooth  implementation  of the Project;  and (c) remedial  measures
taken  or required  to  be  taken  to  address  such  conditions.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  4.08  of the  General
Conditions and  on the basis of the indicators  acceptable  to the  Bank.  Each Project
Report shall  cover the period  of one calendar  quarter,  and shall  be furnished to  the
Bank not later than  one month  after the  end of the period  covered  by  such  report.

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  4.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

Without  limitation on the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section 11,  the  Borrower shall
in  form  and
ensure  that  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project, 
substance  satisfactory to the Bank, are  prepared  and furnished  to the Bank not later
than  forty-five  (45) days  after the  end of each  calendar  quarter.  Each  such  report
shall  cover the  period  of such  calendar  quarter.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  4.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall cover the period  of one fiscal  year of the Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
not  later than  six (6)  months after  the end of such  period.

For  purposes  of  this  Section  B,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  auditors  are
employed  not  later  than  three  (3)  months  after the  Effective  Date,  in  accordance
with  the provisions  of Section  III of this  Schedule  2.

3. 

4. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

-11-

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting  Services. 
consulting  services  required  for the Project  and to  be financed  out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with  the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used  below in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  Bank  of  particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement Guidelines,  or Sections II,  III,  IV  and V  of the Consultant  Guidelines,
as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those  contracts  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive
Bidding;  (b)  Shopping;  (c)  Direct Contracting;  (d)  Well-established  Private Sector
Procurement  Methods or Commercial  Practices  which  have been  found acceptable
to  the  Bank;  and (e)  Community Participation  procedures  which  have  been  found
acceptable  to  the Bank.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement of  Consultants' Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services for those contracts  which are  specified  in the

-12-

(c)  Least-Cost  Selection; 

(e)  Single-source  Selection  of  consulting  firms; 

Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Budget; 
(f)  Well-
Qualifications; 
established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial  Practices  which
have  been  found  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  (g)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs
5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of  Individual
Consultants;  and  (h)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of  Individual
Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those  contracts  which  shall  be subject  to  the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article  II of the General  Conditions, this  Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Investment  Project  Financing"  dated  February
2017,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in  paragraph 2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

A. 

1. 

2. 

66-~

-13-

Category 

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of  Taxes)

(1)  Goods,  works, Non- 

16,800,000

Consultant's  Services,
consultant  services, 
Training  and Operating
Costs  under the  Project
(other  than those  covered
by  Categories (3)  and  (4)
below)

(2)  Labor  Payments  and  Direct 
Cash  Transfers  under  Parts 
A.2  and  A.3  of the  Project

(3)  Goods,  works,  Non- 

Consultant  Services  and
consultant services  required 
for Municipal  Grants  under
Part A.1  of the  Project  and
Matching  Grants  under Part
B.4  of the Project
(4)  Goods,  works, Non- 

Consultant's  Services  and 
consultants'  services  for
Productive  Inclusion  Grants
under Part B.7  of the
Project

100%

100%

100%

100%

2,700,000

39,975,000

10,350,000

(5)  Front-end Fee 

175,000 

(6)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest 

Rate  Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

70,000,000

Amount  payable
pursuant  to  Section
2.03  of this
Agreement  in
accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of
the  General
Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant
to  Section  2.08(c)  of
this Agreement

-14-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed  $14,000,000  may  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on or  after  May  30,  2017,
for Eligible  Expenditures  under Category  (1)  and (3);  or

under Category  (2) until:  (i)  the Payment  Agents  referred to  under  Section
F.2  of the  Project  Agreement  have  been  hired  in  a manner  satisfactory  to
the  Bank;  and  (ii)  the  Productive  Safety  Net  and  Direct  Cash  Transfer
Manual  has been  adopted  in manner  satisfactory  to the  Bank;  or

under  Category  (4)  until  the  Productive  Inclusion  Manual  referred  to  in
Section 
.B  of  the  Project  Agreement  has  been  adopted  in  a  manner
satisfactory  to  the Bank.

2. 

The Closing  Date  is February  28,  2020.

Section  V. 

Other Undertakin2s

The  Borrower  shall,  not  later  than  January  31  of each  calendar  year,  throughout
the  period  of Project  implementation,  provide  to  the  Bank,  evidence  in  form  and
substance  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  showing  that  the  Borrower  has  budgeted  and
allocated to the Project Implementing Entity counterpart  funds  in amounts  required
for  Project implementation  during  said  calendar year.

-15-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date;  by (b)  the Installment  Share for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such
repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each  March  15  and  September  15

Beginning  September  15,  2022, 
through  March 15, 2047

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

2%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any  proceeds of the Loan have  been withdrawn  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph 
I  of  this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date

-16-

following  the date  of withdrawal  and shall  be repayable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the provisions
of such  sub-paragraph shall  no  longer apply to  any withdrawals  made after
the  adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any Principal  Payment Date  occurring during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior  to the Conversion  by  either: (i)  the  exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is  denominated  in more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount denominated
in each Loan  Currency,  so  as to  produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

4. 

5. 

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

"ADECOS"  means  Agentes  Comunitdrios de  Desenvolvimento Sanitdrio,  the
Recipient's  Health  and Community  Development  Agents.

"Affected  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of an  involuntary  taking  of
land  under the  Project,  would have  their:  (a)  standard  of living adversely  affected;
or (b)  right, title  or interest in any house,  land (including  premises, agricultural  and
grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset 
acquired  or  possessed,
temporarily  or  permanently;  or (c)  access  to  productive  assets adversely  affected,
temporarily or permanently;  or (d)  business, occupation,  work or place of residence
or  habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily  or  permanently;  and  "Affected  Person"
means  any  of the Affected  Persons.

"Annual  Work  Plan  and  Budget"  means  the  annual  work  plan and  budget  for  the
Project  prepared by  the Project  Implementing Entity  and approved by  the Bank,  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I.C  of  Schedule 
to  the  Project
Agreement.

1 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and Grants",  dated October  15,  2006,  and revised  in January  2011.

"Bank  Safeguard  Policies"  means  the  Bank's  operational  policies  and  procedures
set  forth  in the  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under  OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04, 4.09,  4.10,
is  published  under
4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60  as  said  manual 
www.WorldBank.orp/opmanual

"Beneficiary"  means  for  the  purposes  of:  (a)  Matching  Grants  under  Part  B.4  of
the  Project,  a  privately  owned  legal  entity  which  satisfies  the  eligibility  criteria
referred  to  in  Section  I.G.2  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Project  Agreement  and  is  a
Borrower of a Matching  Grant; and (b)  Productive Inclusion  Grants  under  Part B.7
of the  Project,  an  individual  that  is  eligible  to  benefit  from  Productive  Inclusion
Grants that meets the  poverty criteria  set forth in  the Productive  Inclusion  Manual;
and (c)  Labor Payments  and  Direct  Cash Transfers  under  Parts A.2  and A.3  of the
Project,  a  household  eligible to  participate  and  registered  for  that  purpose,  all  in
accordance  with the  Productive  Safety Net  and  Direct  Cash Transfer  Manual.

7. 

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth in  the table  in  Section  IV of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

-18-

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July  2014).

"Direct  Cash  Transfer"  means  the  cash  benefit  to  be  made  to  Beneficiaries  under
the  Direct  Cash Transfer  Component  under Part  A.3  of the Project  and elaborated
further  in the Productive  Safety Net and  Direct Cash  Transfers  Manual.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "ESMF"
mean  the  policy  and  legal  framework  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  prepared  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity,  dated  January  28,  2009,  updated  and  published  on
May  25, 2017,  which sets  out the objectives, policies, monitoring  procedures,  time
schedules  and  other environmental  and social  protection  provisions to:  (a)  prevent
and  mitigate  potential  environmental  effects  under  the  Project;  (b)  monitor  the
environmental  and  social  effects  of the  Project;  (c)  prevent  and mitigate  potential
adverse  effects  to  forests;  (d)  provide  pest  control  measures;  and  (e)  prevent  and
mitigate  overfishing,  in  the carrying  out of the Project.

"Environmental  Management  Plan and the acronym "EMP"  means each plan to be
prepared in accordance  with the provisions  of the ESMF, for a Local  Development
Subproject  or a Local Economic  Development  Subproject,  setting out the measures
to  be taken  for the avoidance,  minimization,  mitigation  and off setting  of potential
adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of such  Local  Development  Subproject
or Local  Economic  Development  Subproject (as  the case  may  be).

"GAAP" means  Governance  and Accountability  Action  Plan.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set  forth in  Section  II  of this  Appendix.

"Grant  Selection  Committee"  means  each  committee  to  be  established  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  pursuant to  Sections  I.G.1(c)  and  I.H.2  of the Project
Agreement,  to  be  responsible  for  the  review  of Matching  Grants  and  Productive
Inclusion  Grants.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Action  Plan" means  each  plan  to  be prepared  in  accordance
with  the  IPPF  for  a  Local  Development  Subproject  or  a  Local  Economic
Development  Subproject,  setting  out  the  technical  and  administrative  measures,
monitoring  and  evaluation  guidelines,  legal  framework  and  culturally  appropriate
to  be  taken  for  the  protection  of the  dignity,  human  rights  and  cultural
actions 
uniqueness  of  Borrower's  indigenous  ethnic  minorities,  tribal  groups,  and/or
scheduled tribes  in the  carrying out of the Local  Development  Subproject or Local
Economic  Development  Subproject  (as  the case  may be).

66-

-19-

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

"Indigenous  Peoples  Policy  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "IPPF"  mean  the
Borrower's  policy  and  legal  framework,  prepared  by  the  Project  Implementing
Entity,  dated April  13,  2009,  updated and published  on May  25,  2017, satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  to  protect  the  dignity,  human  rights  and  cultural  uniqueness  of
Borrower's  indigenous  ethnic  minorities, tribal  groups,  and/or  scheduled  tribes in
the  carrying out  of the  Project.

"Labor  Payments"  means the cash benefit  to be paid to  Beneficiaries,  as temporary
income  support,  for the  carrying  out  of activities  under  the Productive  Safety  Net
Program,  referred  to  in  Part  A.2  of  the  Project  and  elaborated  further  in  the
Productive  Safety Nets  and Direct  Cash  Transfers  Manual.

"Local  Development  Plan"  means  for  each  municipality  the  local  development
plan, 
including  a  medium-term  development  vision  for  such  municipality,
prepared  in accordance  with  the Participatory  Investment  Cycle.

"Local  Economic  Development  Subproject"  means  a specific  development  project
under  Part  B.4  of  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  a  Beneficiary  utilizing  the
proceeds  of a  Matching  Grant.

"Matching  Grant" means the goods, works and consultants  'services  to be provided
by the Project Implementing  Entity out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary
for a  Local Economic  Development  Subproject,  in accordance  with the provisions
of Section  I.H.  of the  Project Agreement.

"Matching  Grant  Agreement"  means the agreement  to  be entered  into between the
Project  Implementing  Entity  and a  Beneficiary  providing  for a  Matching  Grant  in
accordance  with  the provisions of Section  I.H.2  of the  Project Agreement.

"Matching  Grants  Manual"  means 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  approved  by  the  Bank,  all  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  B.1(c)  of the Project  Agreement,  as the same may  be revised
from time to  time  with the  prior written  approval  of the  Bank.

the  manual  developed  by 

"Ministry  of  Territorial  Administration"  mean 
responsible for  territorial  planning  and any  successor thereto.

the  Borrower's  Ministry

"Municipal  Administration"  means  for  each  Municipality,  the  administration
referred  to  in Section  I.A.3(a)  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Municipal  Consultative  Council"  means,  for  each  Municipality,  the  council
referred  to  in Section  I.A.3(b)  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Municipal  Economic  Development  Strategy"  means  each strategy  prepared  for a
municipality  under  Part  B.1  of the  Project.

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

-20-

"Municipal  Grant"  means  a  grant  to  be  made  by  FAS  out  of the  proceeds  of the
Loan  to  a  Selected  Municipality  for  the  financing  of goods,  works,  consultants'
services,  and  Training  needed  for  the  carrying  out  of  construction  and/or
rehabilitation  of basic  and social  infrastructure  activities,  following  the guidelines
included in  the Project's  Operational  Manual.

"National  Committee" means  the committee  established  by the  Borrower pursuant
to the  Borrower's  decree  number 44/1994,  dated October  28,  1994, and referred  to
in  Section  I.A.1  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Operating  Costs" means  reasonable  recurrent Project  expenditures,  based  on  an
annual  budget previously approved  by  the Bank, that would  not have been  incurred
by  the  Borrower  absent  the  Project,  on  the  account  of:  (a)  office  utilities  and
communications  expenses;  (b)  office  rental  expenses;  (c)  Project's  vehicles
maintenance  costs,  fuel  and  spare  parts;  (d)  travel  expenses  and  per diems  for
official  Project  staff (excluding  salaries  of Borrower's  government  officials  and/or
civil  servants);  (e)  operation  and  maintenance  of office  equipment;  (f)  insurance
costs;  (g)  bank  charges  pertaining  to  the  designated  account  for  the  Loan;  (h)
routine  translation  of  Project  related  documentation;  (i)  local  advertising  costs
pertaining  to the Project;  and ()  salaries  of the Project  Implementing  Entity's non-
intellectual  staff (excluding  salaries  of  Borrower's  government  officials  and/or
civil  servants);  all as needed for the implementation  and supervision  of the Project;

"Operation  and  Maintenance  User  Committee" means  each  committee  referred to
in  Section  I  A.3(c) of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  developed  and  adopted  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  under the Original Project,  dated December  17,  2009, revised
and updated  and  referred  to  in Section  B.1(a) of the Project  Agreement.

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  loan agreement  for a  Project  between  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  dated  March  16,  2011,  as  amended  to  the  date  of this
Agreement  (Loan  No.  4689).

"Original  Project"  means the  Project described  in Schedule  1  to the Original  Loan
Agreement.

"Participatory  Investment Cycle"  means the Project Implementing  Entity's process
for  local  development  planning  for  each  of the  participating  municipalities,  set
forth  in the  respective  Local  Development  Plan,  and  consisting  of the following  5
stages,  carried  out  in  accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank: 
(a)
establishment  of an  institutional  structure  for  such  planning;  (b)  mapping  of the
municipality's  geographic  and  socioeconomic  profile;  (c)  preparation  of a Local
Development  Plan  for  the municipality,  with  a  medium-term  development  vision,
strategy,  targets  and investments;  (d)  execution  of an  agreed program of municipal

-21-

investments;  and  (e)  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  process,  and  dissemination
of lessons  learned.

"Payment  Agents"  means  an agent  selected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  responsible  for  administering  the
Productive  Safety Net Program (Labor Payments  and Direct  Cash Transfers)  in the
Selected  Municipalities.

"PCU" means the  Project coordination  unit established  within  FAS  and referred to
in Section  L.A  of the  Project Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD
Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in
October,  2006  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan" means the Borrower's  procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
April  4,  2009,  revised  on May  30,  2017,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of the
Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the
same  shall  be updated  from time to  time  in accordance  with  the provisions  of said
paragraphs.

"Productive  Inclusion  Grants"  means  the  goods,  works  and  consultants'  services
to  be provided  by the  Project Implementing  Entity out  of the proceeds  of the Loan
to  a  Beneficiary  for  productive  inclusion  activities  (as  defined  in  the  Grants
Manual),  in accordance  with the provisions of Section 1.1  of the Project Agreement.

"Grant  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and a Beneficiary  providing  for  a Productive Inclusion  Grant
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  1.1  of the Project  Agreement.

"Productive  Inclusion  Grants  Manual"  means  the  manual  for  the  implementation
of  Part  B.7  of  the  Project  and  referred  to  in  Section  B.1(d)  of  the  Project
Agreement.

"Productive  Safety  Net  Program"  means  the  Borrower's  program  aimed  at
supporting eligible households  in the  Recipient's  rural and urban  areas, through the
provision  of  timely  and  predictable  supplemental  income  in  return  for  their
participation  in cash  for work  activities  (Cash for  Work).

"Productive  Safety Net and  Direct  Cash Transfers  Manual"  means  the manual  for
the  implementation  of Part  A.2  and A.3  of the  Project  and  referred  to  in  Section
B. 1(b)  of the  Project Agreement.

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity, of same date as  this Agreement,  as  the same may  be amended

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

-22-

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements
supplemental  to the  Project Agreement.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  and  the  acronym  "FAS"  mean  Fundo de  Apoio
Social,  the  Borrower's  Social  Action  Fund,  established  pursuant  to  the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  and operating  under the laws  of the Borrower.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means  the  Borrower's  Decree
Number  44/94  dated  October  28,  1994,  as  amended  by  Decree  Number  04/96,
dated  January  19,  1996,  and by  Decree  Number 22/0 1,  dated April  6,  2001,  as the
same  may  be  further amended  from time  to  time.

"Project  Manuals"  means  collectively  the  Operational  Manual,  the  Productive
Safety Net  and  Direct  Cash  Transfers  Manual,  the  Matching  Grants  Manual  and
the  Productive  Inclusion Grants  Manual.

"Provincial  Council"  means 
the  Borrower's  provincial  council  established
pursuant  to  Law  2/2007,  dated  January  3,  2007,  and referred  to  in Section  I.A.2  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan" means each plan to  be prepared  in accordance  with the
RPF  for  a  Local  Development  Subproject  or  a  Local  Economic  Development
Subproject,  setting  out  the  principles,  procedures,  the  time  schedule  governing
acquisition  of rights  to  land,  resettlement  and  compensation  of Affected  Persons
under  the  Local  Development  Subproject  or  Local  Economic  Development
Subproject  (as  the case  may  be), as  well  as  reporting  and monitoring  arrangements
to  ensure compliance  with  said  plan.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "RPF"  mean  the  policy  and
legal  framework  for  compensation  of Affected  Persons,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
in  connection  with  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  prepared  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  dated  January  28,  2009,  updated  and  published  on  May  25,
2017.

"Safeguards  Documents"  means  collectively  the  ESMF,  the EMPs,  the  IPPF  and
the  IPAPs.

"Sector  and  Value  Chain  Study"  means  each  study  carried  out  under  Part  B.2  of
the  Project.

"Selected  Municipalities"  means  the  Borrower's  municipalities  of  Buco  Zau,
Tomboco,  Bula Atumba,  Cacuaco, Muconda,  Luacano,  Bundas,  Luau,  Cacuso,
Quela,  Lucala,  Uige,  Catabola, Cuchi,  Longonjo,  Ucuma,  Huambo,  Quilengues,
Cacula, Matala, Lubango, Curoca, Camucuio, Virei, Bibala, T6mbwa, Chongoroi,

-23-

Caimbambo,  Benguela,  Seles,  Conda,  Cela,  Amboim,  Cambulo,  and  any  other
municipality  within the  Borrower's  territory  selected  in  agreement  with the Bank.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section 
.B  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds  of the  Loan available  to the  Project Implementing  Entity.

"Training"  means  reasonable  expenditures,  based  on an  annual  budget previously
approved  by  the Bank,  (other than those  for  consultants'  services)  incurred by  the
Borrower,  to  finance  transportation  costs  and per diem  of  trainers  and  trainees,
rental  of training  and  workshop  facilities;  and  acquisition  of training  equipment
and  material  under the Project.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are  hereby modified  as  follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are  modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs  below.

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at
the  rate  specified in  the Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on 

The  Borrower  shall  pay 
the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement
(the  "Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment Charge  shall  accrue  from
a  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement  to  the
respective  dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from
the Loan Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment Charge  shall be payable
semi-annually  in arrears  on  each  Payment Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan  Agreement  for  the purpose  of Section  2.04."

54. 

55. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

6k

