OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

ORIGINAL  GRANT
SCF-PPCR  GRANT  NUMBER  TF014588

ADDITIONAL  GRANT
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER  TF0A7482-ZM

Strategic Climate  Fund- Pilot Program
for Climate Resilience  Grant Agreement

(Providing Additional  Financing  and Amending  and Restating  the Original  Grant
Agreement  for the  Strengthening  Climate  Resilience  PPCR (Phase II) Project)

REPUBLIC  OF ZAMBIA

between

and

Dated 

\  Q 

,2018

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
acting  as an  implementing  entity  of the  Strategic  Climate Fund-  Pilot Program  for
Climate  Resilience

SCF-PPCR GRANT  NUMBER  TF014588
SCF-PPCR  GRANT  NUMBER  TF TF0A7482-ZM

STRATEGIC  CLIMATE FUND-  PILOT PROGRAM  FOR CLIMATE
RESILIENCE GRANT  AGREEMENT

,  2018,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF  ZAMBIA
AGREEMENT  dated 
("World
("Recipient");  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION 
Bank"),  acting  in  its  capacity  as  an  implementing  entity  of the  Strategic  Climate  Fund
("SCF") - Pilot Program  for Climate  Resilience  ("PPCR").

(A) 

under an  agreement  dated  June  14,  2013  as amended to  date,  between the
Recipient  and  the  World  Bank  ("Original  Grant  Agreement"),  the  World  Bank,  acting  in
its capacity  as  an  implementing  entity  of the  SCF-PPCR,  agreed  to  provide  the  Recipient
with a  grant (SCF-PPCR  Grant  No. TFO  14588)  in  an  amount  of thirty-one  million  Dollars
($3  1,000,000)  ("Original  Grant") to  assist in financing the  project described  in Schedule  I
to the  Original  Grant  Agreement  ("Original  Project");

(B) 

under  an  agreement  dated  June  14,  2013  as  amended  to  date,  between  the
Recipient  and  the  World  Bank,  ("Loan  Agreement"),  the  World  Bank,  acting  not  in  its
individual  capacity  but  solely  in  its  capacity  as an  implementing  entity  SCF-PPCR,  agreed
to  provide  the  Recipient  with  a  loan (SCF-PPCR  loan number  TFO 14573)  in an  amount of
five  million  Dollars  (US$5,000,000)  ("Original  Loan")  to  assist  in  financing  the  Original
Project;

(C) 

the  Recipient  has  requested  the  World  Bank,  acting  in  its  capacity  as  an
implementing  entity  of  the  Strategic  Climate  Fund  SCF-PPCR  to  provide  additional
financing  from  SCF-PPCR  in  support  of  activities  related  to  the  Original  Project,  by
providing  a  grant in  an  amount  of one  million  one  hundred  thousand  Dollars  ($1,100,000)
("Additional  Grant")  and  a  Loan  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  thirteen  million  five  hundred
thousand  Dollars  ($13,500,000)  ("Additional  Loan");  and

(D) 

the  World  Bank  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter alia, of the  foregoing,  to
extend  such  additional  financing  to  the  Recipient  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth
in  this Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE  the  Recipient  and the World  Bank hereby agree  to amend and
restate  the  Original  Grant  Agreement  with  effect  from  the  Effective  Date  of  this
Agreement,  to  read as  follows:

Article  I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  for  Grants  Made  by  the  World  Bank  Out  of  Various
Funds,  dated  February  15,  2012  ("Standard  Conditions"),  constitute  an  integral
part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires  otherwise, the capitalized terms used in  this Agreement
have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  Standard  Conditions  or  in  this
Agreement.

2.01.  The  Recipient  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project  described
in  Schedule  I  to this  Agreement ("Project").  To this end,  the Recipient  shall carry
out  the  Project  through  the  Ministry  of  National  Development  Planning  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article II  of the  Standard  Conditions.

2.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  2.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Recipient  and  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Recipient
shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

-2-

Article  II
The  Project

Article  III
The  Grant

3.01. 

The  World Bank  agrees to  extend to the  Recipient,  on the terms and conditions  set
forth  or referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  a  grant  in  a  total  amount thirty-two  million
one  hundred  thousand  United  States  Dollars  ($32,100,000)  ("Grant")  (consisting
of the  Original  Grant  in the amount  of ($3  1,000,000)  and  Additional  Grant  in  the
amount  of $1,100,000)  to  assist  in  financing the  Project.

3.02. 

The  Recipient  may  withdraw the proceeds  of the Grant  in  accordance  with  Section
IV  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

3.03. 

The Grant  is funded  out of the above-mentioned  trust fund  for which the World Bank
receives  periodic  contributions  from the donors to the trust fund.  In accordance  with
Section  3.02  of the  Standard  Conditions,  the  World  Bank's  payment  obligations  in
connection  with this Agreement  are  limited to the amount  of funds made  available to
it  by  the  donors  under the  abovementioned  trust  fund,  and  the  Recipient's  right  to
withdraw  the  Grant  proceeds  is  subject to the availability  of such  funds.

-3-

Article  IV
Effectiveness;  Termination

4.01. 

This Agreement  shall  not become  effective  until  evidence  satisfactory  to the  World
Bank has  been  furnished to the World Bank that the conditions  specified below have
been  satisfied:

(a) 

(b) 

The  execution  and  delivery  of this  Agreement  on  behalf  of the  Recipient
have  been  duly authorized  or ratified  by all  necessary  governmental  action.

The  SCF-PPCR  Loan  Agreement  has  been  signed  and  delivered,  and  all
conditions  of effectiveness  of said  agreement or the right  of the Recipient to
withdraw  funds thereunder  have been satisfied,  except  for the condition  that
this Agreement  has  become  effective.

4.02.  As  part  of the  evidence  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  Section  4.01,  there  shall  be
furnished  to the  World  Bank an  opinion or opinions  satisfactory  to  the World  Bank
of  counsel  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  or,  if  the  World  Bank  so  requests,  a
certificate  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  of a  competent  official  of the  Recipient,
showing on  behalf of the Recipient,  that this Agreement  has  been duly  authorized  or
ratified  by,  and  executed  and  delivered  on  its  behalf and  is legally  binding upon  it in
accordance  with  its terms.

4.03. 

Except as  the  Recipient  and the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  this  Agreement
shall  enter  into  effect  on  the  date  upon  which  the  World  Bank  dispatches  to  the
Recipient  notice  of its acceptance  of the  evidence  required  pursuant  to Section  4.01
of this  Agreement  ("Effective  Date").  If,  before  the Effective  Date,  any  event  has
occurred  which  would  have  entitled  the  World  Bank  to  suspend  the  right  of the
Recipient  to  make withdrawals  from  the Grant  Account  if this Agreement  had been
effective,  the World  Bank may  postpone the  dispatch of the notice  referred to  in this
Section  until such  event  (or  events)  has (or  have) ceased to  exist.

4.04.  This  Agreement  and  all  obligations  of the  parties  under  it  shall  terminate  if it  has
not entered  into effect  by the  date  90 days  after the date  of this  Agreement,  unless
the  World Bank,  after consideration  of the  reasons for the  delay,  establishes a later
date  for  the  purpose  of this  Section.  The  World  Bank  shall  promptly  notify  the
Recipient  of such  later date.

Article  V
Recipient's Representative;  Addresses

5.01. 

The  Recipient's  Representative  referred  to 
Conditions  is  its  minister  responsible  for finance.

in  Section  7.02  of  the  Standard

5.02. 

The  Recipient's  Address referred  to  in  Section  7.01  of the  Standard  Conditions  is:

-4-

Ministry  of Finance
P.O.  Box  50062
Lusaka
Zambia

Telex: 

Facsimile:

(+260)  42221 

(+260  211) 253494/251078

5.03.  The  World  Bank's Address  referred  to  in  Section  7.01  of the  Standard  Conditions

is:

International  Development  Association
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INDEVAS 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423  (MCI)  or 
64145  (MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-5-

AGREED  at  LYL^VKA 

isus I,  as  of the day  and year  first  above

written.

By

By 

REPUBLIC  OF ZAMBIA

Authorized  Representative

Name:  kjq4  yA  cT

Title:  M_  ______

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
acting  as  an implementing  entity of the  Strategic Climate
Fund - Pilot Program  for Climate  Resilience

Authorized  Represen 

tive

Name:

Title:__ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_

/
-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective of the Project  is to strengthen the Recipient's  institutional framework
for climate  resilience  and  improve  the  adaptive capacity  of vulnerable  communities  in  the
Barotse  sub-basin.

The  Project  constitutes  the  second  phase  of the  Program,  and  consists  of  the

following  parts:

Part  I  Strategic  National  Program  Support

Carrying  out  a  program  of activities to  strengthen  the  national  institutional  framework  for
climate  resilience,  such  program  of activities  to  comprise  the  following:

(a)  institutional support to the national  climate  change  program through:(i)  mainstreaming
of climate  resilience  into key national and  sectoral policies  and programs;  (ii) provision
of short  term  and  post  graduate training  opportunities  for climate  change  champions,
knowledge  sharing,  analysis  and  dissemination;  (iii)  carrying  out  of  studies  on
management  of  external  resources  and  climate  risk  financing;  and  (iv)  operational
support  to  the  Climate Change  Coordinating  Unit  including  in  fiduciary  management
and  programmatic  monitoring  and  evaluation,  all  through  the  provision  of technical
assistance,  the  acquisition  of  goods,  vehicles  and  equipment,  the  financing  of
consultant  services,  the  financing  of Operating  Costs and the  carrying  out of Training.

(b)  providing  support  for enhanced  climate  and  early  warning  information  dissemination
through:  (i)  carrying  out of social  marketing  awareness  campaigns;  (ii)  application  of
rapid communication  systems  between  line  agencies  and communities  in the  pilot sub-
basins;  and  (iii)  establishment  of a  pilot  open  data platform,  all  through  the  provision
of technical  assistance  and Training;  acquisition  of goods and equipment  and financing
of consultant  services,  non-consultant  services  and Operating  Costs.

(c)  Identifying  the  challenges,  risks  and  opportunities  for  producers  to  transform  their

livelihoods  into  market based  enterprises.

(d)  developing  a  service  delivery  system  for  an  information  platform  to  facilitate  the
dissemination  and  accessibility  of information  for  producer  groups  and  other  users  /
stakeholders.

Part  2  Support for  Participatory  Adaptation

Carrying  out a  program  of activities  to strengthen  the  adaptive  capacity  of vulnerable  rural
in  the  Barotse  sub-basin,  such  program  of  activities  to  comprise  the
communities 
following:

-7-

(a)  Engaging  the  services  of  experienced  non-governmental  organizations  and  other
to  identify  and
qualified  facilitators  to  strengthen 
articulate  climate  risks,  use  participatory  approaches  to  prioritize  adaptation  options,
prepare  and  implement  sub-grant  proposals and  manage  canals.

the  capacity  of  communities 

(b)  Support to  the  Western  Province  and  District  Councils  for:  (i)  carrying  out of climate
risk  and  assessment  studies  for  the  Barotse  sub-basin;  (ii)  mainstreaming  of climate
into  regional  plans  and  budgets;  (iii)  designing  and  overseeing  the
resilience 
implementation  of  structural  and  non-structural  adaptation  options;  (iv)  enhancing
access  of  Beneficiaries  to  adaptation  knowledge  and  centers  of  expertise;  and  (v)
improving  the  policy  and  recurrent  financing  framework  for  traditional  canals,  all
through the  provision  of technical  assistance;  acquisition  of goods and equipment  and
financing  of consultant  services,  non-consultant  services  and Training.

(c)  Financing  incremental  operating  expenditures  and  strengthening  the  capacity  of the
Western  Province and District Councils  including in financial  management,  safeguards
screening  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,  all  through  the  provision  of  technical
assistance;  acquisition  of vehicles,  goods and  equipment;  and  financing  of consultant
services  and Operating  Costs.

Part 3  Pilot  Participatory  Adaptation

Carrying  out  a  program  of activities  to  pilot climate  adaptation  in  the  Barotse  sub-basin,
such  program  of activities  to comprise the  following:

(a)  Providing  Sub-Project  Grants  to  finance  eligible  Sub-Projects  at  the  District,  Ward
community  groups  and  individual  levels,  and  to  finance  innovations  or  scale  up  the
work of best  performing  Beneficiaries.

(b)  Establishing  and  operating  an  Adaptation  Contingency  Fund  to  finance  eligible  Sub-
Projects  based  on the  occurrence  of a  defined  event  (s)  as detailed  in  the Participatory
Adaptation  Implementation  Manual.

(c)  Rehabilitating  and  strengthening  the management  of traditional  canals.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and  Other Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

Ministry of National Development Planning

The  Recipient  shall  vest  in  the  Ministry  of  National  Development  Planning
1. 
responsibility  for  overall  Project  execution,  coordination  and  implementation  of  the
Project.

National Project Coordinating Unit

2.  The  Recipient  shall  maintain throughout  Project  implementation,  the National  Project
Coordinating Unit  (NPCU),  with  an  institutional  framework  and  terms  of  reference
satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources  adequate  to  carry  out  its
responsibilities  under the Project.  Without limitation on the  foregoing, the NPCU  shall
be responsible  for the day  to day  implementation  of the  Project at  national  level.

Climate Change Coordinating Unit,

The  Recipient  shall  maintain  through-out  Project  implementation,  the  Climate
3. 
Change  Coordinating  Unit,  with  an  institutional  framework  and  terms  of  reference
satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources  adequate  to  carry  out  its
responsibilities  under the Project.  Without  limitation  on the foregoing,  the Climate Change
Coordinating Unit,  shall  be  responsible  for  inter-ministerial  coordination  of the  Project.

National  Disaster Management  and  Mitigation  Unit  and  the  Zambia  Metrological
Department

4. 

The  Recipient  shall  maintain  through-out  Project  implementation,  the
(a) 
National  Disaster  Management  and  Mitigation  Unit  (DMMU)  and  the  Zambia
Metrological  Department  (ZMD),  with  an  institutional  framework  and  terms  of
reference  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources  adequate  to
carry  out  its  responsibilities  under the  Project.

Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  DMMU  and  ZMD  shall  be

(b) 
responsible  for the  implementation  of Part  1.B  (ii)  and (iii)  of the  Project.

Provincial Project Implementation Unit

5. 

(a)  The  Recipient  shall:  (i)  maintain  throughout  Project  implementation,  the
Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit  (PPIU),  within  the  Western  Province

-9-

6. 

7. 

8. 

administration  headed by  a Project manager,  and comprising  an  environmental  and
social  safeguards  management  specialist,  a  monitoring  and  evaluation  specialist,
adaptation  specialist  and  an  accounting  assistant,  all  with  qualifications,
experience,  and terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the World  Bank;  and  (ii)  ensure
that  the  PPIU  has  adequate  resources  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities  under  the
Project.

(b)  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  PPIU  shall  be  responsible  for
overseeing  and  facilitating  the  day-to-day  implementation  of the  Project  in  the
Barotse sub-basin.

Provincial Planning Sub-Committee

the
(a)  The  Recipient  shall  maintain, 
Provincial  Planning  Sub-Committee within  Western  Province with  an  institutional
framework  and terms of reference  satisfactory to the World  Bank and  facilities  and
resources  adequate to  carry  out  its responsibilities  under the  Project.

throughout  Project 

implementation, 

(b)  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  functions  of the  Provincial  Planning
Sub-Committee  shall  be  to:  (a)  facilitate overall  coordination  of the Project  in the
Province;  and  (b)  endorse  Sub-Projects  for  subsequent  approval  by the NPCU.

District Planner and District Planning Advisory Sub-Committee

The  Recipient  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  the office  of the
District  Planner  and  the  District  Planning  Advisory  Sub-Committee  within  each
District,  each  with  an  institutional  framework  and  terms of reference  satisfactory
to  carry  out  its
to  the  World  Bank  and  facilities  and  resources  adequate 
responsibilities  under  the Project.

Without  limitation on the foregoing,  the District  Planner, under  the guidance  of the
(a)
District  Planning  Advisory  Sub-Committee, 
mainstreaming  climate  resilience  in  District  integrated  development  plans;  (b)
facilitating,  coordinating  and  monitoring the  implementation  of the  Project at the
District,  Ward  and  community  levels;  and  (c)  screening  Sub-Projects  against  the
eligibility  criteria  and  recommending  them  for  consideration  by  the  Provincial
Planning  Sub-Committee.

shall  be  responsible 

for: 

B. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Project Operational Manual and Participatory Adaptation Implementation Manual

1  .

The Recipient  shall:  (a)  by  not later  than 90  days  after  the  Effective  Date,  update
the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  to  include  implementation
arrangements  for  additional  activities  under Part  3  of the  Project; (b)  carry  out the

2. 

3. 

4. 

C. 

1. 

-10-

in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operational  Manual  and  the  updated
Project 
Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual;  and  (b)  except  as  the  World
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  amend  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be
amended  or  waived  any  provision  of  the  Project  Operational  Manual  and  the
Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual.

In  case  of a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of the  Project  Operational  Manual  or
the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  and this Agreement,  those of
this Agreement  shall  prevail.

Annual Work Plans

The  Recipient  shall,  not  later than  December  30  of each  year prepare  and  furnish
to  the  World  Bank,  an  annual  program  of activities  proposed  for  implementation
under  the  Project  during  the  following  Fiscal  Year,  together  with  a  proposed
budget  and  specification  of  the  source  or  sources  of  financing  for  all  Eligible
Expenditures.

The  Recipient  shall  exchange  views  with the  World  Bank  on  each  such  proposed
annual  work  plan,  and  shall  thereafter  adopt,  and  carry  out  such  program  of
activities for  such  following  Fiscal  Year  as shall  have been agreed  with  the  World
Bank,  as  such plan may  be subsequently  revised during  such following  Fiscal  Year
with the  prior written  agreement  of the  World  Bank  (Agreed  Annual  Work  Plan).

Sub-Projects

For purposes of implementation  of Part 3 of the Project, the  Recipient shall  provide
Sub-Project  Grants to  Beneficiaries  to implement  Sub-Projects  in  accordance  with
eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  and  specified  in
the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  which  shall  include  the
following:

(a) 

(b) 

Sub-Project  Grants  shall  be  provided  for  priority  adaptation  investments
and  viable  business  enterprise  investments  identified  through  climate
resilience  planning.

Beneficiaries  shall:  (i)  contribute  part  of the  cost  of Sub-Projects  in  cash
or  in  kind  as  stipulated  in  the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation
Manual;  (ii)  meet  minimum  registration  and  fiduciary  requirements  as
the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation
established  set  out 
Manual;  and  (iii)  open  and  maintain  a  bank  account,  where  appropriate,
on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank,  for  receiving
Beneficiary  contributions  and  funds  from  the  proceeds of the  Sub-Project
Grants.

in 

(c) 

Sub-Project  Grants  shall  be  made  under  a  Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement
with  the respective  Beneficiary  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to the

- 11 -

(B)  provide,  promptly  as  needed, 

World  Bank,  which  shall  cover rights  adequate to  protect  its  interests  and
those of the  World  Bank,  including  the  right to:  (i)  suspend  or terminate
the  right  of the Beneficiary  to  use the  proceeds  of the  Sub-Project Grant,
or obtain  a refund of all or any  part of the amount  of the  Sub-Project Grant
then  withdrawn,  upon  the  Beneficiary's  failure  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under the  Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement;  and  (ii)  require  each
Beneficiary  to:  (A)  carry  out  its  Sub-Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  economic,  financial,
managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices  satisfactory
to  the  World  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines; 
resources  required  for  the  purpose;  (C)  procure  the  goods,  works  and
services  to  be  financed  out  of the  Sub-Project  Grant  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of this  Agreement;(D)  maintain  policies  and  procedures
adequate to enable  it to  monitor and  evaluate  in  accordance  with indicators
acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  the  progress  of  the  Sub-Project  and  the
achievement  of its objectives;  (E)  (1)  maintain  adequate records  to reflect,
in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices,  the  outputs,  operations,
resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of the  Sub-Project;  and  (2)  at  the
World  Bank's  or the  Recipient's  request,  have  such  records  and  outputs
in
audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable 
accordance  with consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the
World  Bank, and promptly furnish the report of such  audit to the Recipient
and  the  World  Bank;  (F)  enable  the  Recipient  and  the  World  Bank  to
its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
inspect  the  Sub-Project, 
documents;  (G)  prepare  and  furnish  to the  Recipient  and the  World  Bank
all  such  information  as the  Recipient  or  the  World  Bank  may  reasonably
request;  and  (H)  take  such  measures  as  shall  be  necessary  or appropriate
to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework  (ESMF),  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (
RPF),  the  Pest  Management  Plan  (PMP),  and  any  Resettlement  Action
Plans  (RAPs)  and/or  Environmental  Management  Plans  (EMPs),  as the
case  may be.

to  the  World  Bank, 

2. 

The Recipient  shall exercise  its rights and carry  out its obligations  under each  Sub-
Project Grant Agreement  in such  manner  as to  protect the  interests of the  Recipient
and the  World  Bank and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Project.  Except as the
World  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Recipient  shall  not  assign,  amend, abrogate
or waive  any  Sub-Project  Grant Agreement  or any of its provisions.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Recipient  shall  ensure that the  Project is  carried  out in accordance  with the  provisions
of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

E. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

- 12-

Safeguard

The  Recipient  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  ESMF,  the  RPF,  the PMP  and any  RAPs  and/or  EMPs.

the  Project,  application  of  whose 

Without  limitation  to  the  foregoing,  the  Recipient  shall  ensure  that  all  technical
results  would  have
assistance  under 
environmental  or  social  implications,  shall  only  be  undertaken  pursuant  to  terms
of reference  reviewed  and  found  satisfactory  by  the  World  Bank,  such  terms  of
reference to ensure that the technical  assistance takes  into account the requirements
of the  ESMF,  the  RPF,  the  PMP,  any  applicable  RAP  and  or  EMPs,  and  the
Recipient's  own  laws relating to  the environment  and  social  aspects.

Except  as  otherwise  agreed  in  writing  by  the  World  Bank,  the  Recipient  shall
require that in  implementing  Sub-Projects, the  Beneficiaries  take  such measures  as
shall  be  necessary  or  appropriate  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of the  ESMF,
the  RPF,  the PMP,  and any  RAPs  and/or  EMPs,  as  the case  may be.

The  Recipient  shall  ensure  that  Project  reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.A  of this
Schedule 
implementation  and
monitoring of the  measures undertaken  to  implement  the  provisions  of the  ESMF,
the  RPF, the  PMP,  and  any  RAPs and/or  EMPs.

include  adequate 

information  on 

shall 

the 

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports;  Completion  Report

The  Recipient  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.06  of the  Standard  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  and  set  out  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period  of one  calendar  quarter
and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end
of the  period  covered  by  such  report.

Financial  Management;  Financial Reports; Audits

The  Recipient  shall  ensure  that  a  financial  management  system  is  maintained  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of the  Standard  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Recipient  shall
ensure  that  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  are  prepared  and
furnished  to  the  World  Bank  as  part  of the  Project  Report  not  later  than  forty  five
(45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  covering  the quarter,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to the  World  Bank.

- 13  -

3. 

The  Recipient  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  for  the  Project  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  (b)  of the  Standard  Conditions.
Each  such  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal
year  of the  Recipient.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  and
a  Management  Letter  shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later than  six  (6)
months  after the  end of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

All  goods,  works, non-consulting  services  and  consulting  services required  for the
Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Grant  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Procurement
Regulations  and the  provisions  of the Procurement  Plan.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

1. 

2. 

The  Recipient  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Grant  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  III  of  the  Standard  Conditions,  this  Section  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  World  Bank may  specify  by  notice  to the  Recipient
(including  the "Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Investment  Project  Financing"  dated
February  2017,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  World  Bank  and  as  made
applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set forth  in  the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Grant  ("Category"),  the  allocations  of  the
amounts  of the  Grant  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category:

Category 

Amount  of the 
Original  Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Amount  of the  Percentage  of
Expenditures
to  be Financed
Inclusive  of
Taxes)

Additional 
Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed  in 
USD)
0 

100%

(1)  Goods,  works, non- 
consulting  services,
vehicles,  consultants'
services  under the  Project
(except  for  Part 3.C  of the
Project). 

9,839,000

(2)  Sub-Project  Grants 
under  Part  3.A  of the
Project. 

(3)  Adaptation 
Contingency  Fund  Sub-
Project  Grants  under  Part
3.B of the  Project 

(4)  Training  and 
Operating  Costs 

(5)  Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services, 
consulting  services,  Sub- 
Projects  Grants  under Part 
3.A  and  Adaptation 
Contingency  Fund  Sub- 
Project  Grants  under  Part 
3.B of the Project  and 
Training and  Operating 
costs 

- 14  -

5,088,000

400,000

3,271,000

0 

0 

100%

100%

0 

100%

12,402,000 

1,100,000 

Such
percentage  of
Eligible
Expenditures  as
the World  Bank
may  determine
as  specified  in
the respective
Agreed  Annual
Work Plan

TOTAL AMOUNT 

31,000,000 

1,100,000

* 

B. 

1. 

The  Eligible  Expenditures  can be  claimed  against  any  of the  following:  (i)  Category  2  of
the  Original  Loan  and the  Additional  Loan;  and  (ii)  Category  5  of the  Original  Grant  and
the  Additional  Grant,  all  in  accordance  with  the  percentages  specified  in  the  respective
Agreed  Annual  Work  Plan.

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments:

(a)  made  prior  to  the  date  of:  (i)  the  Original  Grant  Agreement  with  respect  to
amounts  of the  Original  Grant;  and (ii)  this Agreement with  respect  to amounts  of
the Additional  Grant.

(b) 

under Categories  (1),  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  after the  date  of this Agreement.

- 15  -

2. 

The  Closing  Date  referred  to  in  Section  3.06  (c)  of  the  Standard  Conditions 
December 31,  2022.

is

- 16-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Adaptation  Contingency  Fund"  means the  fund  established  under  Part 3.B  of the
Project  to  provide  Sub-Project  Grants  contingent  upon  the  early  warning  of  a
the
disaster  for 
Beneficiaries'  preparedness  in  the event  that  the disaster takes  place.

implementation  of  Sub-Projects  aimed  at  increasing 

the 

"Agreed  Annual  Work  Plan"  means  the  program  of activities  agreed  each  Fiscal
Year  between  the  Recipient  and  the  World  Bank  for  implementation  under  the
.B of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement  during the
Project  in accordance  with  Section 
following Fiscal Year,  as the  same  may  be revised from  time to  time  in  accordance
with  said  Section.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011  and  as
of July  1,  2016.

"Barotse  Royal  Establishment"  mean the  traditional  chiefs  of the Lozi  community
recognized  and  operating  under the  Chief's  Act,  Chapter  287  of the  Laws  of the
Recipient.

"Beneficiaries"  means  the  District  Councils,  Wards,  community  groups  or
in  the  Participatory
individuals  who  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  specified 
Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  for receiving  Sub-Project Grants  and to which
or for  whose  benefit  a  Sub-Project  Grant  is  made  or proposed  to be  made,  and  in
its  singular  form the  term  means  any  one  such  grouping.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the
Project,  has  experienced  or  would  experience  direct economic  and  social  impacts
caused  by:  (i)  the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (A)  relocation or loss  of
shelter; (B)  loss of assets or access to assets;  or (C)  loss of income sources  or means
of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another  location;  or (ii)  the
involuntary  restriction  to  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,
resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of such  persons;  and  "Displaced
Persons"  means  more than  one  Displaced  Person.

8. 

"District"  means  an  administrative  subdivision  of the Recipient  within  a  Province
established  pursuant  to  Provincial  and  Districts  Boundaries  Act,  Chapter  286  of
the  Laws  of the  Recipient.

- 17-

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

"District  Council"  means  a  local  government  unit  within  the  Recipient's  territory
established  and  operating pursuant  to  Local  Government  Act,  Chapter  281  of the
Laws  of the  Recipient.

"District  Planner"  means  a  staff of the  Recipient  responsible  for  planning  at  the
District  level  and referred  to  in  Section  L.A  of Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

"District  Planning  Advisory  Sub-Committee"  means  the  planning  committee  of
the  Recipient established  for each  District comprising  representatives  from various
line  ministries  and  government  agencies  at  the  district  level,  the  Barotse  Royal
Establishment and  civil  society,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  "EMP"  means  an  Environmental
Management  Plan  acceptable  to the  World Bank  and  prepared  in  accordance  with
the ESMF  and  "EMPs"  means,  collectively,  all such  plans.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  prepared  and  adopted  by  the
Recipient,  dated  February  2013,  defining  the  set  of  mitigation,  enhancement,
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures  to  be  taken  during  implementation  of the
Project  to  eliminate  any  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts,  offset  them,
reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  to  enhance  positive  impacts  of the  Project
activities, as  such framework  may be amended  by  the Recipient from time to time,
with the prior written  agreement  of the  World  Bank.

"Fiscal  Year"  means  each  fiscal  year  of the  Recipient  commencing  on  January  I
and  ending  on  December  31.

in  respect  of  each  of  the  audited  Financial
"Management  Letter"  means, 
Statements  of the  Recipient,  a  letter  issued  by  the  external  auditors  as  part  of the
annual  audit  report  setting  forth  internal  control  weaknesses  identified  during  the
audit  period.

"Ministry  of  National  Development  Planning"  means  the  Recipient's  Ministry
responsible  for  matters  relating  to  national  development,  or  any  legal  successor
thereto.

"Climate Change Coordinating Unit" means  a  unit  of the Recipient  referred  to  in
Section  l.A  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  established  in  the  Ministry  of
National  Development  Planning  to  oversee  all  climate  resilience  interventions  in
the  country  and  comprising  of technical  and  operational  Staff of the  Recipient.

- 18-

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

"National  Disaster  Management  and  Mitigation  Unit"  or "DMMU" means  a  unit
of  the  Recipient  referred  to  in  Section  LA  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement
responsible for  disaster management  and  mitigation  and established  and operating
under  the  Disaster  Management  Act,  Act  No.  13  of 2010,  or  its  legal  successor
thereto.
"Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  by  the  Recipient  for
Project  implementation,  supervision,  management,  and monitoring,  on account of
office  space  rental  and  utilities,  office  supplies  and  consumables,  bank  charges,
communications,  vehicle  operation,  maintenance  and  insurance,  building  and
equipment  maintenance  and  insurance,  Project related travel  costs and subsistence,
advertising  and  contracted  staff  salaries  (other  than  consultants'  services),  but
excluding  salaries  of civil  servants.

"Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual"  means  the  Participatory
in  form  and
Adaptation  Implementation  Manual  dated  September  5,  2013, 
substance  acceptable  to  the  World Bank  setting out the  guidelines  for community
in  the  Project,  selection  criteria  and  detailed  guidelines  and
participation 
procedures  for  the  implementation  of  Sub-Projects,  including  administrative,
financial  and  accounting,  procurement,  social  and  environmental  safeguards,
monitoring and  evaluation  procedures.
"Pest  Management  Plan"  or "PMP"  means the  Recipient's  plan  acceptable  to  the
World  Bank,  dated  February  2013,  setting  out  the  measures  to  be  taken  for  the
development and  implementation  of integrated pest management  and  safe handling
of pesticides  in the  course  of Project  implementation,  as the  same may be  modified
from  time to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  World  Bank,  and  such
term  includes any  schedules  or annexes  to  such  Plan.

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"Procurement  Plan" means the  Recipient's  procurement  plan  for the Project,  dated
February  19,  2018  and  provided  for  under  Section  IV  of  the  Procurement
Regulations,  as the  same may be updated  from  time to time  in agreement  with the
World  Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means  the  "World  Bank Procurement  Regulations  for
IPF Borrowers",  dated July  2016,  revised November  2017.

"Program"  means  the  Strategic  Program  for  Climate  Resilience  designed  to
mainstream  climate  change  into the  most  economically  vulnerable  sectors  of the
Recipient's  economy  and  set  forth or  referred  to  in  the  letter dated  June  14,  2011
from the Recipient  to the  World Bank.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  or  "POM"  means  the  Project  Operational  Manual
dated  September  5,2013  containing  detailed  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the
implementation  of the Project,  including  in the areas  of monitoring and evaluation,

- 19  -

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

social  and  environmental  safeguards,  financial,
procurement,  coordination, 
administrative  and  accounting  procedures,  corruption  and  fraud  mitigation
measures,  guidelines  on  Operating  Costs,  and  such  other  arrangements  and
procedures  as  shall  be required  for  the  Project.

"Province"  means  an  administrative  subdivision  of  the  Recipient  established
pursuant  to  Provincial  and  Districts  Boundaries  Act,  Chapter  286  of the  Laws  of
the Recipient.

"Provincial  Planning  Sub-Committee"  means  the  planning  committee  of  the
the  Western  Province  administration  comprising
Recipient  established  at 
representatives  from  various  line  ministries  and  government  agencies  at  the
provincial  level, the  Barotse Royal  Establishment and  civil society,  and  referred to
in  Section  l.A  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

"Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit" or "PPIU" means  a unit of the Recipient
established  in  Mongu  Western  Province  to  oversee  Project  implementation  in the
Barotse  sub-basin  and  referred  to in Section  L.A  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"RAP"  means  the  resettlement  action  plan,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to
the  World  Bank,  prepared  or  to  be  prepared  by  the  Recipient  on  the basis  of the
RPF,  and  giving  details of the  specific  actions,  measures  and  policies  designed  to
facilitate  the  achievement  of the  objectives  of the  RPF,  along with the  procedural
and  institutional  measures  needed  to  implement  such  actions,  measures  and
policies,  as  such  RAP  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior written
agreement  of the World  Bank.

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"RPF"  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,
dated  February  2013,  adopted  by the  Recipient,  and giving details of provisions  for
compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced  Persons,  as
such RPF  may be amended from  time to time with the prior  written agreement of the
World  Bank.

"SCF-PPCR  Loan  Agreement"  means the amended  and  restated  Strategic Climate
Fund-Pilot Program  for Climate Resilience  Loan Agreement,  entered  into between
the Association,  acting  as an  implementing entity of the  Strategic  Climate  Fund -
Pilot  Program  for  Climate  Resilience  and  the  Recipient  on  the  same  date  as  this
Agreement  for  the  financing  of  the  Project  (SCF-PPCR  Loan  Agreement  No.
TF014573-ZM  and TF0A7494-ZM).

"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Grants  Made  by  the
World  Bank Out  of Various  Funds",  dated  February  15,  2012.

"Sub-Project"  means  a  priority  investment  proposed  to  be  implemented  by  an
eligible  District,  Ward,  community  group  or  individual  and  which  meets  the

- 20 -

eligibility  criteria set  out  in  the  Participatory  Adaptation  Implementation  Manual
and  the provisions  of Section  1.  C  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement,  and are  eligible
to  receive  financing  under  Part  3  of the  Project,  and  Sub-Projects  means  two  or
more of such  investments.

"Sub-Project  Grant"  means  a  grant financing  made or proposed  to  be made  by the
Recipient  for the  purpose  of financing  eligible  Sub-Projects  under the  Project  and
referred to  in  Section  1.  C of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Sub-Project  Grant  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  acceptable  to  the  World
Bank,  between  the  Recipient  and  the  Beneficiary  through  which  the  Recipient
provides  Sub-Project  Grants  to  eligible  Beneficiaries,  and  referred  to  in  Section
I.C  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  training  under  the  Project,  based  on
annual  budgets  approved  by  the  World  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,
workshops,  study  programs  and  tours,  along  with  tuition,  travel  and  subsistence
allowances for training participants,  services  of trainers  and  workshop facilitators,
rental  of training  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of training materials,  and
to  course  or  workshop  preparation  and
other  activities  directly 
implementation.

related 

"Ward"  means an  electoral  and  administrative  subdivision  of the  District  Council
established  pursuant  to  the  Local  Government  Elections  Act,  Chapter  282  of the
Laws of the  Recipient.

"Zambia  Metrological  Department" or "ZMD"  means the metrological  department
within  the  Recipient's  Ministry  of Transport  and  Communication.

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

