OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8820-ME

Loan Agreement

(Second  Institutional  Development  and  Agriculture  Strengthening  Project)

between

MONTENEGRO

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as of the Signature  Date between  MONTENEGRO ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The
Borrower and the Bank  hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General  Conditions  (as defined  in the Appendix to this  Agreement)  apply to  and form

part  of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of  thirty  million  Euro,  (EUR
30,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  III of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  is one  quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04. 

The  Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter  of  one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  rate  is  the  Reference  Rate  plus  the  Fixed  Spread  or such  rate  as  may  apply
following  a Conversion;  subject to  Section 3.02(e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment Dates  are February  15  and  August  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE IV -EFFECTIVENESS

4.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
Project  Operational  Manual  has  been  adopted  by  the  Borrower  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to the Bank.

4.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline is  the date ninety  (90)  days after the  Signature  Date.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

5.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Borrower's  address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Stanka  Dragojevica  2
81000 Podgorica
Montenegro

the  Borrower's Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile: 
382 20  224 450 

E-mail:
mf@mif.gov.me

5.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Bank's address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b) 

the Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

and

(b) 

and

AGREED  as of the Signature  Date.

MONTENEGRO

-3-

By

By

Authoriled  Representative

Name: 

) 

Title: 

\C 

Date: 

hO\

C

v

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONST  UCTIO  AND  DEVE  OPMENT

Authori  e 

rese  tative

Nae: 

Date: 

JkfNA

C 

0

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the Project  is to  improve  the competitiveness  of agriculture  and  fisheries
in  Montenegro  through  enhanced  delivery  of Borrower's  support  in  alignment  with  EU  accession
requirements.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part A.  Strengthening MARD  Agriculture,  Rural Development  and Fisheries  Programs

1  .

Increasing  and  diversifying  income  generation  opportunities  through  grants  for  rural
development,  agriculture and  fisheries  Sub-projects,  including through the following:

through, 

Provision of agriculture,  rural  development  and  fisheries  Grants  to  Beneficiaries  to  carry
out  target  measures  and  implement  direct  support  for  rural  development  measures,
including 
IPARD-like  measures;
(b)  implementing  direct  payment  measures  towards  harmonization  with  EU  Common
processing
Agricultural 
associations/collection  centers;  and  (d)  carrying  out  fisheries  investments  in  preparation
for the implementation  of the European  Maritime  Fisheries  Fund (EMFF).

inter  alia:  (a)  piloting 

further  EU 

production 

supporting 

(CAP); 

Policy 

and 

(c) 

2. 

Strengthening  MARD towards  fulfilling EU accession  requirements,  including through the
following:

(a)  Strengthening  the  Directorate  for  Payments  (DfP)  management  capacity  and
development  of the  IACS  applications;  (b)  strengthening  the Advisory  Services  and  DfP
system  at  the  regional  level;  (c)  upgrading  offices  for  DfP  and  the  Advisory  Services,
including through  carrying out of works  for rehabilitation  of existing offices,  provision of
installation;  and  (d)  strengthening
equipment  and  necessary  hardware  and  software 
capacity  of the  Department  of  Rural  Development  (DfRD),  Department  of  Agriculture
(DfA)  and  DfP.

Part B.  SuDort for the Food  Safety,  Veterinary and Phytosanitary  Services

1  .

Safe  management  of animal  by-products  (ABPs),  including through the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

establishment  of a  comprehensive  system  for  the  processing  and/or  disposal  for
ABPs  through the design  of a  control  system for the  safe management  of ABPs;

carrying out  of training to  inspectors  and business  operators  in alignment  with the
relevant  food  safety  provisions  of the EU  acquis; and

carrying  out  of public  information  and  awareness  activities  addressed  at  food
production/processing  industry.

-5-

2. 

Strengthening  the diagnostic  capacity  of MARD's  phytosanitary  laboratory,  through:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

preparing  the  designs  for  the  construction  of laboratory  facilities,  including  the
carrying  out  of related  works,  as  well  as  provision  of laboratory  equipment  and
laboratory  furniture;

development  of  an  instrument  to  ensure  efficient  inter-agency  collaboration
between the  AFSVPA  and the NRL;  and

support  NRL  to  obtain  accreditation  of priority  tests  and methods  and  strengthen
its  institutional  capacity.

Support to  inspectors  of the AFSVPA  to implement  effectively  the  enhanced  official  risk-
based  food safety  control regime.

Part C. Modernization  of the Fisheries  Sector

Development  of  a  network  of  landing  sites  with  enhanced  access  to  auxiliary  services,
including through the design  of infrastructure  improvement and subsequent carrying  out of
works  for  rehabilitation  of existing  infrastructure  in  the  port  cities  of:  a)  Bar;  (b)  Herceg
Novi;  and (c)  other localities  in which fishing landing  sites  may be developed.

Support to the MARD's  Directorate  for Fisheries and association  of fishermen  to enhance
the  productive  capacity  of the sector and  strengthen  institutional  capacity.

Part D.  Project Management

Strengthening  the  Borrower's  Project  management,  monitoring  and  evaluation  and
safeguards'  capacity  through  the  provision  of  goods,  consulting  services  and  Training,
audits  and Operating  Costs.

3. 

1. 

2. 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  duration  of  the  Project,  (a)  the  Project
Steering  Committee  and  (b)  the  Project  Management  Team,  all  with  a  composition  and
terms  of reference  acceptable  to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  duration  of  the  Project,  the  TSU  with  a
composition,  staff,  resources  and terms  of reference  acceptable to the  Bank.

The Borrower,  through  TSU,  shall  be  responsible  for procurement,  financial  management
and  disbursement  activities  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of this
Agreement,  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  the  Grant  Operational  Manuals,  the  Project
Procurement  Strategy  for  Development  and  the  Procurement  Plan,  and,  to  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  duration  of  the  Project,  the  TSU  with  a
composition,  staff, resources,  and terms  of reference  acceptable  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in accordance  with  this  Agreement,  the  Project
Operational  Manual  and  the  Grant  Operational  Manuals,  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend,
abrogate,  repeal  or waive any provision  of said manuals  without the prior written approval
of the  Bank.  In  case  of any  discrepancy  between  the  terms  of said  manuals  and  those  of
this  Agreement,  those  of this  Agreement  shall  prevail.

Sub-projects

The Borrower  shall  select,  appraise,  implement,  and evaluate  Sub-projects  under Part A.  I
of the Project  in  accordance  with the  principles,  procedures  and requirements  set  forth  in
the  Grant  Operational  Manuals,  Procurement  Regulations,  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,
and the ESMF.

The  Borrower  shall  provide  each  Grant  under  a  Grant  Agreement  with  the  respective
Beneficiary  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the
following:

the Grant  shall  be denominated  in EUR;  and

(a) 

(b) 

the  Borrower  shall  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and those  of the
Bank,  including the right to:

(i) 

suspend or terminate  the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds  of the
Grant,  or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Grant,  upon
the Beneficiary's  failure to  perform  any  of its obligations  under the Grant
Agreement;  and

-7-

(ii) 

in  accordance  with  sound 

require  each  Beneficiary  to:  (A)  carry  out  its  Sub-project  with  due
technical,
diligence  and  efficiency  and 
economic,  financial,  managerial,  environmental,  and social  standards  and
practices  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of
loan  proceeds  other  than  the  Borrower,  and  the  ESMF;  (B)  provide,
promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for  the  purpose;  (C)  procure
the  goods,  works  and  services  to  be  financed  out  of  the  Grant  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of this  Agreement,  and  the  Procurement
Regulations;  (D)  maintain policies  and procedures adequate  to enable  it to
monitor and evaluate in accordance  with indicators  acceptable to the Bank,
the  progress  of  the  Sub-project  and  the  achievement  of  its  objectives;
(E)  (1)  maintain  a  financial  management  system  and  prepare  financial
statements  in accordance  with  consistently  applied  accounting  standards
acceptable  to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations,
resources  and expenditures  related to the Sub-project;  and (2) at the Bank's
or  the  Borrower's  request,  have  such  financial  statements  audited  by
in  accordance  with
independent  auditors  acceptable 
consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and
promptly  furnish  the  statements  as  so  audited  to  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank; (F)  enable the Borrower  and the Bank to inspect the  Sub-project,  its
operation  and  any  relevant  records  and  documents;  and  (G)  prepare  and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such  information as the Borrower
or the Bank  shall reasonably  request relating  to the foregoing.

to  the  Bank, 

3. 

C. 

1  .

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Grant
Agreement in  such manner  as to protect  the interests  of the Borrower  and the  Bank and to
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  Grant  Agreement  or any  of its
provisions.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out the Project  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF  as  applicable,  and
shall  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  of their  provisions  without  the
prior written approval  of the Bank.

The Borrower  shall  ensure that no  Loan proceeds are  used to finance:  (a)  infrastructure  that
directly uses  or discharges  into  International  Waterways;  (b)  activities that correspond to  a
Category A Project or require a full environmental  impact assessment under the Borrower's
laws;  and  (c)  purchase  of  pesticides,  or  investments  or  activities  involving  Involuntary
Resettlement.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting  and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  furnish to the Bank  each Project  Report  not later than thirty  (30)  days
after  the end of each calendar  semester,  covering the calendar  semester.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

A. 

General

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions  and  in
accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter, the  Borrower  may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a)  finance Eligible  Expenditures;  and (b)  pay:  (i) the
Front-end  Fee;  and  (ii)  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  premium  in  the
amount allocated and,  if applicable,  up to the percentage  set forth  against each Category  of
the following  table:

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works,  non-consulting
consulting
services, 
and 
services, 
Operating  Costs  for  Parts  A.2
B,  C and  D of the  Project

and 
Training 

(2)  Grants  under  Part  A. 1  of  the 

Project

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in EURO) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

13,778,000 

16,147,000 

100%

100%

of 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
this
2.03 
Section 
Agreement  in accordance  with
Section  2.07 (b)  of the General
Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant 
to
Section  4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

(3)  Front-end Fee 

75,000 

(4)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest 

Rate Collar premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

0 

30,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding the  provisions of Part A above,  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made:

(a) 

for payments  made  prior to  the Signature  Date; or

(b) 

for expenditures  under  Category  (2),  unless  the Borrower  has  approved  the Grant
Operational  Manual  for the first call  for Grants  in form  and substance  satisfactory
to  the Bank.

2. 

The  Closing Date is  June  30,  2023.

-9-

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization Repayment  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the Principal  Payment  Dates  of the Loan  and  the percentage  of the
total  principal  amount  of the Loan payable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").

Principal Payment  Date 

February  15,  2023 
August  15,  2023 
February  15,  2024 
August  15,  2024 
February  15,  2025 
August  15,  2025 
February  15,  2026 
August  15,  2026 
February  15,  2027 
August  15,  2027 
February  15,  2028 
August  15,  2028 
February  15,  2029 
August  15,  2029 
February  15,  2030 
August  15,  2030 
February  15,  2031 
August  15,  2031 
February  15,  2032 
August  15,  2032 
February  15,  2033 
August  15,  2033 
February  15,  2034 
August  15,  2034 
February  15,  2035 
August  15,  2035 
February  15,  2036 
August  15,  2036 
February  15,  2037 
August  15,  2037 
February  15,  2038 
August  15,  2038 
February  15,  2039 
August  15,  2039 
February  15,  2040 
August  15,  2040 
February  15,  2041 
August  15,  2041 
February  15,  2042 
August  15,  2042 

Installment  Share
1.84%
1.87%
1.90%
1.92%
1.95%
1.98%
2.01%
2.04%
2.07%
2.10%
2.14%
2.17%
2.20%
2.23%
2.27%
2.30%
2.33%
2.37%
2.41%
2.44%
2.48%
2.52%
2.55%
2.59%
2.63%
2.67%
2.71%
2.75%
2.79%
2.83%
2.88%
2.92%
2.96%
3.01%
3.05%
3.10%
3.14%
3.19%
3.24%
3.45%

-10-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

"ABPs" means  animal  by-products.

1  .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Advisory  Services"  means  the  Division  for  advisory  affairs  in  plant  production  and  the
Division  for  advisory  affairs  in  livestock  production  within  the  MARD,  established  on
March  27, 2017  by  MARD's  internal  order  011-7/17.

"AFSVPA" means Administration  for  Food  Safety,  Veterinary and  Phytosanitary  Affairs,
the  Borrower's  agency  to  perform  tasks  related  to:  food  and  feed  safety  at  all  stages  of
production,  processing and distribution,  import and for veterinary  and phytosanitary affairs
established  on  October  7,  2015  by  the  Law  on  Food  Safety  published  in  the  Borrower's
Official  Gazette  No.  57/15.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means,  for  purposes  of paragraph  5 of the Appendix to  the
General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and Combating  Fraud and  Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA  Credits  and Grants", dated October  15, 2006
and revised  in January  2011  and as  of July  1,  2016.

"Beneficiary"  means  a  recipient  of a  Grant  under  Part  A.1  of the  Project,  and  includes
private agricultural  holdings, producer organizations,  NGOs,  agricultural cooperatives,  and
enterprises,  all  selected  in accordance  with  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in the  Grant
Operational  Manual,  and "Beneficiaries"  means  more than  one such  Beneficiary.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

"Category  A  Project"  means  an  investment  that,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  is  likely  to
that  are  sensitive,  diverse,  or
have  significant  adverse  environmental 
unprecedented.  These  impacts  may affect an area broader than the sites  or facilities  subject
to physical  works.

impacts 

"DfP"  or "Directorate  for  Payments"  means  MARD's  body,  established  on  October  27,
through  Borrower  Decision  No.  03-7161/4  and  responsible  for,  inter  alia:
2011 
(i)  processing  aid  applications  for  programs  under  its  jurisdiction;  (ii)  authorizing  and
executing  payments  in line  with eligibility  criteria;  (iii)  organizing  related on-the-spot  ex-
ante and ex-post controls; and (iv)  carrying out  related  internal  audits.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or "ESMF"  means  the  framework
dated  November  17,  2017,  prepared  and  adopted  by  the Borrower  and  satisfactory  to the
Bank,  consisting  of a  set  of mitigation,  monitoring,  and institutional  measures  (including
measures  for pest management and aimed to avoid  any negative  impact on natural habitats,
forests and physical cultural resources),  required  for the Project and to be taken to eliminate
adverse  environmental and social  impacts,  offset them,  or reduce them to acceptable  levels,
as  well  as  actions  needed  to  implement  said  measures,  including  the  measures  and
information  required  for  the  preparation  of  site-specific  environmental  and  social
management  plans.

-11-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

"EU" means the European  Union.

"EU  acquis" means  the body  of common  rights  and obligations  that  is  binding  on all  the
EU  member  states.

"EU  CAP"  or  "Common  Agricultural  Policy"  means  the  set  of legislation  and  practices
adopted  by the  EU  to provide  a common,  unified policy  on agriculture.

"EU-IPARD"  means  the  European  Union  Instrument  for  Pre-Accession  Assistance  for
Rural  Development.

"European  Maritime  Fisheries  Fund" or  "EMFF"  means  the EU  Fund for maritime  and
fisheries policies  for the period 2014-2020.

"General  Conditions" means  the "International  Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project  Financing",  dated  July  14,
2017.

"Grant"  means  a grant  made  or proposed to  be made  by  the Borrower  to a  Beneficiary  for
purposes  of financing  the  activities  of a  Sub-Project  under  Part  A.1  of the  Project;  and
"Grants"  means  more than  one such  grant.

"Grant  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  a
Beneficiary  according to terms  and  conditions  set  forth under  Section I.  B.2 of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement,  as  such agreement  may  be  amended from  time to time  by its parties.

"Grant  Operational  Manual"  means  the manual,  to be  revised  yearly  by  the  Borrower  for
each  annual  call  for  Grant  proposals,  describing  the  procedures  for  implementing  the
Grants  under  Part  A.  I  of the  Project,  to be  approved  by  the Borrower  pursuant  to  Section
III.B.1(b)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and  including,  inter  alia: (a)  adequate
procedures  and controls relating to eligibility,  evaluation,  selection,  procurement,  and flow
of  funds  for  Grants,  with  a  view  to  ensure  use  of  funds  for  intended  purposes;  and
(b)  adequate  environmental  and  social  safeguard  measures,  including  the  ESMF,  as  said
manual  may be  amended  from time to time  with the  agreement  of the Bank.

"IACS" means the European  Union's Integrated Administrative  and Control  System aimed
at  ensuring  that transactions  financed  by  the  European  Agricultural  Guarantee  Fund  are
actually  carried  out and executed  correctly,  and to prevent  and deal  with any  irregularities.

"International  Waterways"  means  waters  of a  trans-boundary  river  or  a  tributary  to  such
river,  including  (a)  any  river,  canal,  lake,  or  similar body  of water  that  forms  a boundary
between,  or  any  river  or  body  of surface  water  that  flows  through,  two  or  more  states,
whether  Bank  members  or not;  (b)  any tributary  or  other  body  of surface  water  that is  a
component  of any waterway described  in (a) above;  and (c) any bay,  gulf, strait,  or channel
bounded by two or  more states  or, if within one state,  recognized  as a necessary  channel  of
communication  between  the  open  sea  and  other  states--and  any  river  flowing  into  such
waters.

21. 

"Involuntary  Resettlement"  means  any  direct  economic  and  social  impact  caused  by:
(a)  the  involuntary  taking of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of

-12-

assets  or access  to assets;  or (iii)  loss of income sources  or means  of livelihood,  whether or
not such persons  must move to another  location;  or (b)  the involuntary  restriction of access
to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the
livelihood of such  persons.

"MARD"  means the Borrower's  Ministry  of Agriculture  and Rural  Development  and  any
successor  thereto.

"NRL"  means the  Borrower's national  reference  laboratory.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  by  the  TSU  on  account  of
Project  related  communication  and  office  supplies  and the  incremental  expenses  incurred
by the  PMT on account of the Project management,  monitoring and evaluation,  which may
include  the  maintenance  of a  vehicle  (including  fuel costs),  costs  of office  and equipment
rental  and  maintenance,  translation  and  interpretation,  communication,  printing  and
publications,  supplies,  local  field  trips  and  study  tours  expenses  (including  per diem),
reasonable  bank charges,  and other miscellaneous  costs directly associated with the Project
implementation,  all based  on periodic  budgets acceptable  to the Bank.

"PMT"  or  "Project  Management  Team"  means  the  Project  management  team  established
by  MARD,  and  responsible  for the  overall  implementation,  coordination,  monitoring  and
evaluation  of the Project.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for  purposes  of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix  to the
General  Conditions, "The  World Bank Procurement Regulations  for IPF Borrowers",  dated
July  1,  2016 revised November 2017.

"Project  Procurement  Strategy  for  Development"  or "PPSD"  means  the strategy  document
for  the Project,  prepared  and  adopted  by the  Borrower  on  November  14,  2017  describing
the carrying  out of World Bank-financed  projects'  procurement.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual  acceptable  to  the  Bank
describing  the  procedures  for  Project  implementation,  including,  inter alia,  procedures
governing  staffing,  procurement,  accounting,  financial  management,  (including  adequate
measures  for  procurement  and forensic  audits),  environmental  and social  safeguards,  and
monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements,  as  said  manual  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time with the agreement  of the Bank.

"Project  Steering  Committee"  means  the  committee  chaired  by  the  MARD  and  to  be
established  by  MARD for the purposes  of overall  Project  oversight.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  later  of the  two  dates  on  which the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
signed this Agreement  and such definition  applies to all references  to "the date  of the Loan
Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

"Sub-project"  means  any of the activities  and/or investments  under Part A.  1  of the  Project
which  have  been  selected  and  approved  by  the  Borrower  to  be  financed  by  a  Grant  in
accordance  with the criteria and procedures  set forth  in the  Grant Operational  Manual.

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

-13-

32. 

33. 

"Training"  means  Project  related  study  tours,  training  courses,  seminars,  workshops  and
other training activities not  included under goods or service  providers'  contracts,  including
training  materials,  space  and equipment  rental, travel,  accommodation  and per diem costs
of trainees  and  trainers,  trainers'  fees,  and  other training  related  miscellaneous  inputs,  as
approved  by the Bank.

"TSU" or "Technical  Services  Unit"  means  the  technical  service  unit  established  by  the
Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance  and  responsible  for  the  fiduciary  (procurement  and
financial  management)  and disbursement  aspects  of the Project.

