OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8877-IN

Loan Agreement

(Uttarakhand  Workforce  Development Project)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

INDIA

and

Dated 

, l 2018

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

/I2018, between  INDIA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The Borrower  and the Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I- GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires  otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed to  them in the General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II- LOAN

2.01.  The Bank  agrees to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of seventy  four  million  United  States
Dollars  (USD74,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time to time
through  a Currency Conversion  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Section 2.08
of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to assist in  financing the project described in  Schedule
1  to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan in accordance  with  Section

IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge  payable  by the Borrower  shall be equal to  one quarter  of

one  percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  however,  that  the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero
percent  (0%)  per annum;  and  provided furthermore that,  upon a Conversion  of all
or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
remains  unpaid when  due  and  such non-payment  continues  for a  period  of thirty
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as
provided  in Section 3.02 (e)  of the General Conditions.

-2-

2.06. 

The Payment Dates are June  15 and  December  15  in  each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule set forth in  Schedule  4 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may at  any time request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the Loan  in order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  and  (ii) a change  of the  interest rate basis applicable  to:  (A)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from  a Variable  Rate to a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal amount  of the
Loan withdrawn and  outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to  a Variable  Rate based on a Fixed Spread;  and  (iii) the  setting of
limits on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate applicable  to all  or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this  Section that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV of the  General  Conditions and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the  Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of  the
Borrower,  withdraw from the  Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to  pay any premium  payable  in accordance  with  Section 4.05  (c)
of the General  Conditions up to the amount  allocated from time to time for
the purpose  in the table  in Section  IV of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

If on any  given  day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of
this Section), the  Borrower shall pay to the Bank a  surcharge at the rate of
one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure  Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i) of this  Section)  for
each  said day ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on each Payment  Date.

(b) 

(c) 

2.09. 

(a) 

-3-

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess Exposure Amount" means  for each day during
which the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total amount  of said  excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio of all  (or,  if the Bank  so  determines,  a portion)  of the  Loan
to  the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or the equivalent  portions)  of the
loans made  by the  Bank  to  the Borrower,  and  to  other borrowers
guaranteed  by the  Borrower that  are  also  subject  to  an  exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined  from
time to time  by the  Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if exceeded,
would subject  the Loan to  the Exposure  Surcharge,  as determined
from time to  time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure  to the Borrower,  as reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity in  accordance  with the provisions of Article V  of the General
Conditions  and the Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance  with the  provisions of Schedule
2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that the
UKSDM  Legal  Framework  has been amended,  suspended,  terminated,  abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect  materially and adversely the ability of the Project
Implementing  Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement
in respect of Component 2 of the  Project

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a

-4-

period  of thirty (30)  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been given  by the Bank to
the Borrower  and the Project  Implementing Entity.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01.  The  Borrower's Representative  is any  of the  following  officials  acting  severally:
the  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary,
or  Under  Secretary  of the  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  of  the  Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's Address  is:

Secretary
Department  of Economic  Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government  of India
North Block
New  Delhi  110  001,  India

Facsimile:

+91-11-23095071

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

1,  India, as  of the  day and  year first  above  written.

-5-

INDIA

By

Name:

Title:

By

orized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Name: 

bo  4g  A.  COA PASA

Title:  ACefJlKi A 

OC;N17

/Recype 

/'IA

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of the  Project  are  to  improve  the  quality  and  relevance  of
training  at  Priority  Industrial  Training  Institutes  and  to  increase  the  number  of
labor-market-relevant  workers  through  short-term  training  in Uttarakhand.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Component  1: 

Improving the  Quality and Relevance  of ITI Training

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

Comprehensive  improvement  of  quality  and  relevance  of  Priority  ITIs:
Operationalizing  a  new  mode  of  service  delivery  at  Priority  ITIs,  through  the
preparation  and  implementation  of Master  Plans  aimed  at:  (a)  upgrading  ITIs'
equipment  and facilities  to comply  with National  Council  for Vocational  Training
("NCVT") requirements;  (b)  converting  trades  from  State  Council  for Vocational
Training  ("SCVT")  to  NCVT;  (c)  rationalization  of trade  courses  pursuant  to
discussions  with  industry  and  stakeholders  consultations;  and  (d)  increasing
enrollment  capacity  of Priority  ITIs  by  opening  new  labor-marked  demanded
trades,  and/or introducing  new  shifts.

Professional development of ITI teachers and staff:  (a)  Establishing at  least  two
in-service  training  centers  at  the  premises  of Priority  ITIs  for  institutionalizing
recurrent  professional  development  training;  and  (b)  designing  and  implementing
professional  training  opportunities  for  principals,  foremen  and  teachers  in  all
public ITIs,  including:  (i)  domain  specific  training (both theoretical  and practical);
(ii)  pedagogical  and management  training;  (iii)  soft  skills  training;  (iv)  industry-
based training;  and (v) competency-based  teachers  training  for selected  trades.

Strengthening industry linkages:  (a)  Developing  a  partnership  framework  with
industry  and  private  sector  entities  in  order to  encourage  cooperation  through:  (i)
input-focused  engagements  such as  private  sector provision  of teachers  training,
guest  lecturers,  and  infrastructure  and  equipment  for  training  providers;  (ii)
advisory  engagements,  on  skills  demand,  trades  prioritization  and  quality  of
Priority  ITIs'  training;  and  (iii)  output-focused  engagements  including  campus
revenue-generating
recruitments,  apprenticeships,  on-the-job 
activities;  and (b)  establishing  an industry-linkage  cell  in each Priority  ITI.

training  and 

Institutional capacity development ofthe skills development system: Strengthening
the  institutional  capacity  of  the  ITI  system  and  overall  skills  systems  through
increasing  ITIs'  financial autonomy.

-7-

Component  2: 

Increasing  the  Number  of  Skilled  Workers  Certified  under  NSOF-
Compliant  Short-Term Trainin

Providing  nationally  recognized  NSQF-compliant  short-term  training  by  the
Uttarakhand  Skills Development  Mission  to  approximately  32,000  uneducated  or
unskilled  persons.

Component  3:  Policy and Institutional  Development  and Project  Management

1 .

Technical  Assistance  for  Institutional  Strengthening:  Strengthening 
the
institutional  capacity  of the  DSDE  for the  implementation  of skills development
sector programs  by:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

establishing  labor  market  driven  skills  development  system  through:  (i)
the  provision  of  technical  assistance  to  develop  job-portals  and  job-
placement/matching  services,  carrier  counseling  and  social  networking
services;  (ii)  the  provision  of business  start-up  support  services/trainings
to  potential  entrepreneurs;  (iii)  the  improvement/strengthening  of  ITIs'
and 
systems  accountability  mechanisms; 
the
strengthening  of district management  committees,  carrying out of business
demand  studies and  industry  consultations  in  order to  inculcate  industry-
led  decision making  procedures;

training 

and 

(iv) 

instituting  a  program  for  the  recognition  of  prior  learning  of  existing
workforce;

developing  Uttarakhand's  skills  development  policy,  carrying  out  the
Department  of  Training  and  Education's  institutional  assessment  and
implementing  automated  business  management  systems  at  DSDE,
including  human 
student  administration,
procurement,  logistics  and  inventory  management,  and  electronic-based
decision making  systems; and

resources  management, 

carrying  out  a  communication  and  awareness  campaign,  using  public
broadcasting, newspapers  and or social networking  services  to educate the
general  public  on training  opportunities,  particularly for women.

2. 

Monitoring and evaluation,  and Project management:  Strengthening  DSDE's
institutional  capacity  to  implement  the  Project  and  perform  monitoring  and
evaluation  activities  thereunder,  including:  (a)  the  operation  of the  State  Project
Implementation  Unit  ("SPIU");  (b)  the  carrying  out  of baselines  surveys,  skills
demand  assessments,  tracers  studies  and  Project  impact  evaluations;  and  (c)  the
monitoring,  and  third  party  validation/accreditation,  of  the  achievement  of
Disbursement-Linked  Results.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arran2ements

On-Lending  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

To  facilitate  Project  Implementing  Entity's  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall  make 
to  the  Project
Implementing Entity in accordance  with the Borrower's  standard arrangements  for
development  assistance  to the  States  of India.

the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available 

Notwithstanding  paragraph  I  above,  in  the  event  that  any  provision  of  this
Agreement,  including the  instructions that the Bank shall have  specified by notice
to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Section  IV.A.1  of this  Schedule,  were  to  be  found
inconsistent  with  the  Borrower's  standard  arrangements 
for  development
assistance  to  the  States  of  India,  the  provisions  of this  Agreement  and  related
instructions  shall govern.

3. 

The Borrower  shall at all times  protect  its  own rights and  the interest  of the  Bank
to accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate,  and  cause  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate,  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall  cover  the  period of one  calendar  semester,  and shall  be  furnished  to
the Bank  not later  than forty five (45)  days after the end  of the period  covered by
such report.

-9-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Part  A  of this Section,  the  Borrower shall
cause the Project  Implementing  Entity  to prepare and furnish  to the Bank not later
than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall have,  and  cause  the  Project Implementing  Entity to have,  the
Project's  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section 5.09  (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial  Statements
shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  first
withdrawal  was made.  The audited Financial  Statements  for each such period shall
be  furnished to the Bank not later than nine (9)  months after the  end of such period.

Section  HI. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the  Project  and to  be  financed out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and to
be financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement Guidelines,  or Sections  II, III, IV  and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case  may be.

-10-

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

National  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods, works and non-consulting  services  shall be procured under contracts
awarded  on  the basis  of National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  subject  to  the
additional  provisions agreed  upon from time to  time between the Borrower and the
Bank and  set forth  in the Procurement  Plan.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following methods,  other than National  Competitive Bidding,  may
be  used  for procurement  of goods,  works  and non-consulting  services  for those
contracts  specified in the Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Limited International  Bidding;  (b)
Shopping;  (c)  procurement  under  Framework  Agreements  in  accordance  with
procedures  which have been  found acceptable  to the Bank;  (d)  Direct Contracting;
(e)  Force Account;  and (f)  Procurement  from a United Nations  agency.

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts  which are specified in the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
Budget; 
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms;  (f)  Procedures  set
forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the Consultant  Guidelines  for the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan shall  set  forth those contracts  which  shall be subject  to the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

- 11 -

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article II  of the General Conditions,  this Section,  and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects" dated  May 2006,  as revised
from time to time  by the  Bank and as made  applicable  to  this Agreement pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in
paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category.

Category 

(1)  Eligible  Expenditures  Program

under  Components  1  and 2  of the 
Project

(2)  Goods,  non-consulting  services,

consultants'  services,
Incremental  Operating  Costs,  and 
Training  and Workshops  under
Component 3  of the  Project

Amount  of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

66,000,000 

80%

7,815,000 

80%

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

185,000 

(4)  Interest  Rate Cap  or  Interest  Rate 

0oSet 

Collr  prmium0 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

74,000,000

Amount 
payable
pursuant 
to  Section
2.03  of this  Agreement
i. 
mn 
accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

or 

th

Amount  due  pursuant
of
to  Section  2.08(c)  of
this Agreement

20( 

- 12  -

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall be
made:

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  USD  14,800,000
may  be made  for payments made  prior to  this date but on or after January
1,  2018  for Eligible  Expenditures;  or

under  Categories  (1)  and  (2)  unless  and  until  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  has prepared and adopted  a Project  Implementation Plan acceptable
to  the Bank;  or

(c) 

under Category  (1)  unless  and until the  Project Implementing  Entity has:

(i) 

(ii) 

complied  with  the  additional  instructions  referred  to  in  Section
IV.A.1  of this  Schedule,  including the  submission to  the Bank  of
the  applicable  IUFR detailing  the expenditures  incurred  under the
EEP  up to  the date  of the  applicable  withdrawal  application;  and

furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  achievement  of the  DLR(s)  set  forth  in
Schedule  3  to  this  Agreement,  for which  the  payment(s)  of the
respective  Allocated  Amounts  has/have been requested.

2. 

If the Bank determines in its sole  discretion that one  or more of the  DLRs set forth
in  Schedule  3  to  this Agreement  has/have  not been  achieved,  or  were  no  longer
achievable  by  the  respective  due  date(s)  and/or the  Closing Date,  then,  the  Bank
shall  withhold  the  Allocated  Amounts  for  such  unmet  DLR(s)  and,  at  its  sole
discretion,  may:

authorize  partial  releases  of  the  Allocated  Amounts  so  withheld/to  be
withheld,  if and  when the  Bank is  satisfied that:  (i)  the  non-fulfillment  of
such  DLR(s)  is  due to  an  event  of force majeure; and/or  (ii)  in the  sole
opinion of the  Bank, the Project Implementing Entity has made  reasonable
efforts  to  remedy  any  situation  preventing  the  achievement  of  said
DLR(s);

authorize,  at  a  later  date,  the  full  release  of  the  Allocated  Amounts  so
withheld,  if and  when  the  Bank  is  satisfied  that  the  respective  DLR(s)
has/have been achieved;  and/or

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

- 13  -

(c) 

at  any  time,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Project  Implementing
Entity,  cancel the amount(s)  so withheld/to be withheld,  and/or reallocate
it/them, whether  in full or in part,  to  any  other Category and/or DLR(s).

3. 

The Closing Date is June 30,  2023.

Disbursement-Linked  Indicators, Disbursement-Linked  Results  and Allocated  Amounts

SCHEDULE  3

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED  RESULTS

RESULTS  TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN FY2018/19 
(YEAR  1) 

RESULTS TO BE 
ACHIEVED IN FY2019/20 
(YEAR  2) 

RESULTS TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN  FY2020/21 
(YEAR  3) 

RESULTS  TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN FY2021/22 
(YEAR  4) 

RESULTS  TO  BE
ACHIEVED  IN  FY2022/23
(YEAR  5)

DISBURSEMENT-
LINKED 
INDICATORS 

1.  Increasing the 
quality of 
training and 
enrollment in 
Priority ITIs. 

The  Steering  Committee has 
approved  Master Plans  for 
all Priority  ITIs.* 

(i)  Priority  ITIs have 

(i)  Priority  ITIs have 

(i)  Priority  ITIs  have 

(i)  Priority  ITIs have

completed  the upgrade  of 
at least five percent  (5%) 
of trade  courses identified 
in the approved  Master 
Plans;*  and 
(ii)  Priority  ITIs  have 

achieved  an  increase  in 
enrolments of at least  five 
percent  (5%) in  NCVT 
Courses  in  FY2019/20 
compared to  baseline. 

completed  the upgrade  of 
at least twenty  five 
percent  (25%)  of trade 
courses identified  in the 
approved  Master Plans;* 
and 

(ii)  Priority  ITIs have 

achieved an  increase  in 
enrolments of at least 
fifteen percent  (15%)  in 
NCVT Courses  in 
FY2020/21  compared  to 
baseline.

completed  the upgrade  of 
at least fifty  percent 
(50%)  of trade courses 
identified  in the  approved 
Master Plans;*  and 

completed  the upgrade  of
at least ninety five  percent
(95%)  of trade courses
identified  in the  approved
Master Plans;*  and

(ii)  Priority  ITIs  have 

(ii)  Priority  ITIs  have

achieved  an  increase  in 
enrolments of at least 
twenty  five percent  (25%) 
in NCVT  Courses  in 
FY2021/22 compared  to 
baseline.

achieved  an  increase  in
enrolments  of at least  fifty
percent  (50%)  in NCVT
Courses  in  FY2022/23
compared  to  baseline.

USDI,600,000  for DLR (i) 
above to  be topped up with 

USDI,800,000  for DLR (i)
above,  to be topped  up with

an  additional  USD  800,000 
if the  DLR (i)  target  is 
effectively  achieved  in or 
before  FY2020/21;  and 
USDI,600,000  for DLR (ii) 
above 

an  additional  USD  800,000 
if the  DLR(i) target  is 
effectively  achieved  in  or 
before  FY  2021/22; and
USDI,800,000  for DLR (ii)
above

USD2,000,000  for  DLR (i)
above;  and  USD2,000,000
for  DLR (ii)  above

Allocated 
Amounts 

USD2,400,000 

USDI,600,000  for DLR (i) 
above;  and  USDI,600,000 
for DLR (ii)  above 

2.  Continuous 
professional 
development  of 
all ITI teachers 
and staff 

DSDE  has approved,  a 
Professional  Development 
Plan  ("PDP") for public 
ITIs' teachers  and  staff.* 

At least  fifty percent  (50%) 
of teachers and  staff in  all 
public  ITIs have completed 
at least one (1)  annually held 
professional  training  program 

At least  seventy  percent 
(70%) of teachers  and  staff 
in all public ITIs have 
completed at least  one  (1) 
annually held professional 

At  least  ninety percent  (90%)  At  least ninety five  percent
of teachers  and  staff in all 
public  ITIs have completed 
at least one  (1)  annually held 
professional  training program 

(95%)  of teachers  and  staff in
all  public ITIs  have
completed  at  least  one  (1)
annually  held professional

-15-

DISBURSEMsEN4T-
LINKED 
INDICATORS 

RESULTS  TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN  FY2018/19 
(YEAR  1) 

RESULTS TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN  FY2019/20 
(YEAR  2) 

RESULTS TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN  FY2020/21 
(YEAR  3) 

RESULTS  TO BE 
ACHIEVED IN  FY2021/22 
(YEAR  4) 

RESULTS  TO BE
ACHIEVED IN  FY2022/23
(YEAR  5)

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED  RESULTS

contemplated  in the  PDP 
during  Year 2. 

training  program 
contemplated  in the PDP 
during  Year 3. 

contemplated  in the  PDP 
during  Year 4. 

training program
contemplated  in the  PDP
during  Year  5.

USD  1,200,000  upon 
achievement  of 70% of 
targeted percentage;  and 
USD1,200,000  upon full 
achievement  of result 

USD  1,200,000 upon 
achievement  of 70% of 
targeted percentage;  and 
USD1,200,000  upon full 
achievement  of result 

USD  1,200,000 upon 
achievement  of 70% of 
targeted  percentage;  and 
USD1,200,000  upon full 
achievement  of result 

USD  1,200,000  upon
achievement  of 70% of
targeted percentage;  and
USD1,200,000  upon  full
achievement  of result

Allocated 
mounts 

USD2,400,000 

3.  Improving 

employment 
outcomes ofITI 
graduates. 

(i)  Priority  ITIs have 

(i)  Priority  ITIs have 

(i)  Priority  ITIs have

achieved an  increase  of 
graduates  in at least three 
percent  (3%)  in  NCVT 
Courses in  FY2020/21 
compared  to baseline;  and 

achieved an  increase  of 
graduates  in at least  five 
percent  (5%) in  NCVT 
Courses  in FY2021/22 
compared  to baseline;  and 

(ii)  At least  twenty seven 

(ii)  At least twenty nine 

percent  (27%)  of students 
completing  their training 
in FY2019/20  in Priority 
ITIs  are placed  in jobs 
within six  (6)  months of 
their training completion. 

percent  (29%)  of students 
completing  their training 
in FY2020/21  in Priority 
ITIs are placed in jobs 
within  six (6)  months of 
their training completion. 

achieved  an  increase  of
graduates  at least fifteen
percent  (15%)  in NCVT
Courses in  FY2022/23
compared  to baseline;  and
(ii)  At least  thirty two  percent

(32%)  of students
completing  their training
in FY2021/22  in Priority
ITIs are placed  in jobs
within six  (6)  months of
their training completion.

USD1,600,000  for DLR (i) 
iabove;  and  USD2,400,000 
for DLR (ii)  above 

USD1,600,000  for DLR (i) 
above;  and  USD2,400,000 
for DLR (ii)  above 

USD1,600,000  for DLR (i)
above;  and USD2,400,000
for DLR (ii)  above

At least  five (5)  Priority  ITIs 
have carried  out revenue 
generating  activities  in  Year 
2. 

At least  fifteen  (15)  Priority 
ITIs have carried  out revenue 
generating  activities  in  Year 
3. 

At least twenty (20) Priority 
ITIs have carried  out revenue 
generating  activities  in  Year 
4. 

At least twenty-five (25)
Priority  ITIs  have carried  out
revenue  generating  activities
in  Year 5.

Aot 

4.  Strengthening 
financial 
management 
capacity  of ITIs. 

DoF  has approved  a new 
policy providing for an 
additional  allocation  to ITIs 
equivalent  to the  amount of 
any revenue  obtained
through  revenue generating
activities.*

- 16-

DISBURSEMENT-
LINKED 
INDICATORS 

RESULTS  TO BE 
ACHIEVED  IN FY2018/19 
(YEAR  1) 

RESULTS  TO BE 

RESULTS TO BE 

ACHIEVED  IN  FY2019/20  ACHIEVED  IN  FY2020/21 

(YEAR  2) 

(YEAR  3) 

RESULTS  TO BE 
ACHIEVED IN  FY2021/22 
(YEAR  4) 

RESULTS TO BE
ACHIEVED  IN  FY2022/23
(YEAR  5)

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED  RESULTS

Allocatd 

USD800,000 

USD400,000  upon 
achievement  of 60% of 
targeted  number;  and 
USD400,000  upon full 
achievement  of result 

USD400,000  upon 
achievement  of 53% of 
targeted  number;  and 
USD400,000  upon full 
achievement  of result 

USD400,000  upon 
achievement  of 50% of 
targeted  number;  and 
USD400,000  upon  full 
achievement  of result 

USD400,000  upon
achievement  of 52% of
targeted  number;  and
USD400,000  upon full
achievement  of result

5. 

Increasing the 
number of 
trainees 
certified under 
NSQF 
Compliant Short 
Term  Training 
by UKSDM. 

(i)  At  least six  thousand four 
hundred  (6,400)  trainees 
have been  certified  under 
NSQF-Level  3  (or above) 
Short Term  Training;* 
and 

(ii)  At least three  thousand 
one hundred  (3,100) 
trainees  certified under 
NSQF-  Level  3  (or 
above) Short  Term 
Training  are women.* 

(i)  At least  twelve  thousand 
eight hundred  (12,800) 
trainees have  been 
certified  under NSQF- 
Level  3  (or above)  Short 
Term  Training;*  and 
(ii)  At  least six  thousand four 

hundred  (6,400)  trainees 
certified  under NSQF- 
Level  3  (or above)  Short 
Term  Training  are 
women.* 

(i)  At least  nineteen 

thousand two  hundred 
(19,200)  trainees have 
been  certified under 
NSQF-Level  3  (or above) 
Short  Term 
Training;*and 

(ii)  At  least nine thousand 
seven  hundred (9,700) 
trainees  certified under 
NSQF-Level  3  (or above) 
Short  Term  Training  are 
women.* 

(i)  At  least twenty  five  three 
thousand  six hundred 
(25,600)  trainees  have 
been  certified under 
NSQF-Level  3  (or above) 
Short Term  Training;* 
and 

(ii)  At  least thirteen  thousand 
five hundred  (13,500) 
trainees  certified under 
NSQF-Level  3  (or above) 
Short Term  Training,  are 
women.*

(i)  At  least thirty two
thousand (32,000)
trainees have  been
certified  under NSQF-
Level  3  (or above)  Short
Term  Training;*  and

(ii)  At  least seventeen

thousand  six  hundred
(17,600)  trainees  certified
under NSQF-Level  3  (or
above)  Short  Term
Training are  women.*

Allocatd 
Amounts 

USD3,000,000  for DLR (i) 
above;  and USD1,000,000 
for DLR (ii)  above 

USD3,000,000  for DLR (i) 
above;  and  USD1,000,000 
for DLR (ii)  above 

USD3,000,000  for DLR (i) 
above;  and  USD1,000,000 
for DLR (ii) above 

USD3,000,000  for DLR  (i) 
above;  and  USD1,000,000 
for DLR (ii)  above 

USD3,000,000  for DLR (i)
above;  and  USD1,000,000
for DLR (ii) above

*These  DLRs  are not  time-bound.  The  Fiscal  Years  in  which they  are  expected  to  be  achieved  as  per  this  schedule  are  strictly  proposed  for
indicative  purposes.  These  DLRs  can accordingly  be met up and  until the  Closing Date.

SCHEDULE  4

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower on each Principal  Payment Date shall be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date;  by (b) the Installment  Share  for each Principal  Payment Date, such
repayable  amount  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred to
in paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to which a  Currency Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

December  15, 2023 

June  15,  2024 

December  15,  2024 

June  15,  2025 

December  15,  2025 

June  15,  2026 

December  15, 2026 

June  15,  2027 

December  15, 2027 

June  15,  2028 

December  15,  2028 

June  15,  2029 

December  15, 2029 

June  15,  2030 

December  15, 2030 

June  15,  2031 

December  15,  2031 

June  15,  2032 

December  15,  2032 

June  15,  2033 

December  15,  2033 

3.09%

3.17%

3.25%

3.33%

3.41%

3.50%

3.58%

3.67%

3.77%

3.86%

3.96%

4.05%

4.16%

4.26%

4.37%

4.48%

4.59%

4.70%

4.82%

4.94%

5.06%

- 18-

June  15,  2034 

December  15,  2034 

June  15, 2035 

5.19%

5.32%

5.47%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have not been fully withdrawn  as of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To the  extent that any proceeds  of the Loan have been withdrawn  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
withdrawal  in amounts determined  by the  Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn  within two  calendar months prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal  and shall  be repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a  due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment  Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after
the  adoption  of such billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all or  any  portion of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any Principal Payment  Date occurring during the  Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of

- 19  -

denomination  immediately  prior to  the Conversion by  either:  (i)  the  exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in  more than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions of this  Schedule  shall  apply separately  to the amount  denominated
in each Loan Currency,  so as to produce  a separate amortization  schedule for each
such amount.

- 20  -

APPENDIX

Section  .

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Allocated  Amounts"  means  the  amounts  allocated  to  each  individual  DLR,  as
such amount might be increased,  reallocated and/or cancelled (whether partially  or
in  its  entirety)  by the  Bank,  from  time to  time  as the  case  may be, in  accordance
with the provisions  of Section IV.B.2  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and Grants",  dated  October  15, 2006  and  revised in  January 2011.

"Category"  means a category  set forth  in the  table  in Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Component"  means each of the sets of activities  grouped under an individual  title
in  Schedule  1  (Project  Description)  to this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers" dated  January 2011  (revised July  2014).

"Director  of Training"  means the  civil servant  who acts  as the  head of DSDE.

"Disbursement-Linked  Indicator"  and  the  acronym  "DLI"  mean  each  of  the
disbursement-linked  indicators  numbered  1  through  5  and  set  forth  in  the  first
column  of the table provided  in Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

"Disbursement-Linked  Result"  and  the  acronym  "DLR"  mean  each  of  the
disbursement-linked  targets/results  set  forth in  Schedule 3  to this Agreement  in the
columns  entitled "Results  to be Achieved in  FY2018/19 (Year  1)",  "Results  to be
Achieved  in FY2019/20  (Year 2)",  "Results  to  be  Achieved  in FY2020/21  (Year
3)", Results to  be Achieved in FY2021/22 (Year 4)" or "Results to be Achieved  in
FY2022/23  (Year 5)",  as  applicable.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project,  have experienced  or would experience direct  economic and social  impacts
caused  by:  (a)  the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or loss of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or
means  of livelihood,  whether  or not such persons  must move to  another  location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to  legally designated parks and protected
areas,  resulting in  adverse impact  on the livelihoods  of such persons.

10. 

"DoF"  means  Uttarakhand's  Department  of Finance  or any  successor  thereto.

-21  -

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"DSDE"  means  Uttarakhand's  Department  of  Skills  Development  and
Employment,  or any successor thereto.

"Eligible  Expenditures  Program"  and the  acronym  "EEP" mean  collectively  all
expenditures  incurred by Project Implementing Entity under the budget  lines 2230-
03-001-01  "Directorate";  2230-03-003-03  "Plan  and  Non-Plan";  and  2230-03-
800-01-01  "Skill  Development"  and/or any  other budget  line  that  the  Bank may
agree  in writing from time to  time.

"EA&EMF"  means  Uttarakhand's  environment  assessment  and  environment
framework  dated  March  2016  and  disclosed  on  the  Project
management 
Implementing  Entity's  website  and  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  April  23,  2016,
setting  forth:  (a)  the  procedures  for  the  screening  of Project  activities  and  the
identification  of  any  adverse  or  positive  environmental  impacts  caused,  or
expected  to  be caused,  on account of their  implementation;  and,  if needed;  (b) the
preparation  of  their  prescribed  environmental  impact  assessments  and  EMPs
therefor;  as such framework  may be  revised,  updated  or supplemented  from time
to  time with the  prior written concurrence  of the Bank.

"EMP"  means  each  of the  ITI-specific  environmental  management  plans  to  be
prepared  by  Uttarakhand pursuant  to  Section  I.F.2  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement,  in accordance  with the provisions of the EA/EMF,  in each case setting
out  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring  and  institutional  measures,  including
capacity building through training, required to: (i) eliminate adverse environmental
impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented  under  the  Project;  (ii)  offset  them,  or
reduce them to acceptable  levels; (iii) enhance any positive impacts thereof;  and/or
(iv)  ensure  Uttarakhand's  compliance  with  statutory  environmental  requirements
consistent  with  the  EA/EMF,  as  each  such  plan  may  be  revised,  updated  or
supplemented  from time to time with the prior written concurrence  of the Bank.

"Fiscal  Year" means  the  Borrower's and Uttarakhand's  fiscal  year, which begins
on April  1  of each calendar year and ends on March  31  of the next  calendar  year.

"FY2018/19"  means the Fiscal Year commencing on April 1,  2018 and concluding
on March  31,  2019.

"FY2019/20"  means the Fiscal Year commencing on April  1, 2019 and  concluding
on March  31,  2020.

"FY2020/21" means the Fiscal Year commencing on April  1, 2020  and concluding
on March  31,  2021.

"FY2021/22"  means the Fiscal Year commencing on April  1, 2021  and concluding
on March  31,  2022.

- 22  -

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

"FY2022/23"  means the Fiscal Year commencing on April  1,  2022 and concluding
on March  31,  2023.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section  II  of this Appendix.

"GESI  Guidelines"  means  the  gender  equality  and  social  inclusion  guidelines
incorporated  into,  and publicly disclosed with, the  SSDP,  setting out actions  to: (i)
ensure equal participation  of women and men benefitting  from the Project without
discrimination;  and  (ii)  better outreach  to women,  and other vulnerable groups.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  incremental
expenditures  incurred  by  Uttarakhand  on  account  of  Project  implementation,
management  and monitoring,  including,  inter alia: (i)  costs  of incremental  staff
salaries  (other than consultants);  (ii)  dissemination of Project related information;
(iii) office  rental  and  leasing operation  and  maintenance  of equipment;  (iv)  office
supplies  and  utilities;  (v)  travel  and  boarding/lodging  allowances;  (vi)  leasing,
operation  and  maintenance  of  vehicles;  (vii)  advertising  and  communication
expenses;  and (viii)  bank charges.

"Industrial  Training  Institute"  and  the  acronym  "ITI"  mean  industrial  training
institutes within Uttarakhand jurisdiction.

"IUFR"  means  the  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  to  be  prepared  by
Uttarakhand  pursuant  to  Section II.B.2  of the  Schedule  to  the Project Agreement.

"Master  Plans"  means  the  plans  to  be  prepared  by  each  Priority  ITI  pursuant  to
DLI  #1,  for purposes  of improving  the  quality  and relevance  of their  training,  as
well  as  their  institutional  capacity  for  the  delivery  thereof,  which  plans  shall
include,  inter alia: (i)  the assessment  of current facilities,  equipment  and  needs  to
meet  NCVT  standards;  (ii)  female  and  disadvantage  population  participation
enhancement  plans;  and  (iii)  infrastructure/equipment  expansion  plans,  as  such
plans  might be amended,  revised, updated or  supplemented  from time to time.

"National  Council  for Vocational  Training"  and the  acronym "NCVT" mean  the
Borrower's  National  Council  for  Vocational  Training  (formerly  known  as  the
National  Council  for  Training  in  Vocational  Trades)  established  in  1956,  which
council  has  been  entrusted  with the  responsibilities  of prescribing  standards  and
curricula  for craftsmen  training,  advising the Government  of India  on the  overall
trades  policy  and  programs,  conducting  "all-India  trade  tests,"  and  awarding
"national  trade certificates,"  or any  successor thereto.

28. 

"NCVT  Courses"  means  ITIs'  training  courses  vetted  by  NCVT  and  awarding
national trade certificates.

- 23  -

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

"NSDC" means  the  Borrower's  National  Skill  Development  Corporation;  i.e.  a
public  private  partnership  initiative  under  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Skill
Development  and Entrepreneurship,  for purposes of promoting skills development
and  catalyzing  the  establishment  of vocational  training  institutes  through,  inter
alia: (a)  financing  enterprises,  companies  or  individuals  providing  vocational
training;  (b)  guaranteeing  quality  assurance  support;  (c)  creation  of  trainers
academies;  and/or  (d)  developing  appropriate  models  to  enhance,  support  and
coordinate private  sector initiatives  for vocational  training.

"NSQF" means the National Skills Qualifications  Framework",  a quality assurance
framework  of the Borrower,  approved  and  notified by the Borrower  on December
27,  2013,  pursuant  to  notification  number  8/6/2013-Invt,  which  lays  down
nationally  recognized  competency  standards  for all qualifications.

"NSQF-Level  3  (or  above)  Short  Term  Training"  means  short  term  training
corresponding  to  level  3  or above  as indicated  in the  NSQF  having a  duration  of
two  hundred (200) to six  hundred (600)  hours  of course  attendance.

"Priority  ITI"  means  a  subset  list  of approximately  twenty  five (25)  public  ITIs,
selected  and  agreed  with the  Bank,  pursuant  to  criteria  reflected  in  the  Project
Implementation  Plan,  for  purposes  of receiving  packaged  interventions  for  the
improvement  of  the  quality,  relevance  and  seating  capacity  of their  training
courses, as  such lists  of ITIs might be amended,  revised,  updated  or supplemented
from time to  time with the prior written concurrence  of the Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines" means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits  and Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers" dated  January 2011  (revised July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  procurement  plan
for  the  Project,  dated  May  8,  2018  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the
same  shall be updated  from time to  time  in accordance  with the provisions  of said
paragraphs.

"Professional  Development  Plan"  and  the  acronym  "PDP"  mean  the  plan  to  be
prepared  and  adopted  by DSDE  for purposes  of providing continued  professional
development  opportunities  to  teachers  and  staff of public  ITIs,  which  plan  shall
include,  inter alia: (i)  lists  of competencies,  partners,  costs  and timelines  for  the
provision  of  professional 
the  stakeholder
consultations/feedback  on trainings  provided;  and  (iii) monitoring  and  evaluation
protocols  for  assessing  the  outcome  of  such  trainings,  as  such  plan  might  be
amended,  revised,  updated or supplemented  from time to  time.

(ii)  mechanisms 

training; 

for 

36. 

"Project  Implementing  Entity" means Uttarakhand.

- 24  -

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

the  Project 

Implementation  Plan"  means 

"Project 
Implementing  Entity's
implementation  manual  to  be prepared  pursuant  to  Section  I.B  of the  Schedule to
the  Project  Agreement,  in  a  manner  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for
purposes of carrying out the Project, which plan/manual shall  comprise, inter alia:
(a)  the  Project  implementation  arrangements, 
including  detailed  operational
guidance  and  allocation  of  responsibilities  among  implementing  agencies  and
staff;  (b)  identification  of key  relevant  staff,  including  SPIU  critical  staffing  and
the  Steering  Committee's  composition;  (c)  fiduciary  standards,  procedures  and
requirements  to  be  enforced/complied  with  during  Project  implementation;  (d)
selection  criteria  for  the  identification  of  Priority  ITIs;  (e)  list  of  revenue
generating  activities  eligible  for  implementation  by  Priority  it  is; 
the
DLIs/DLRs  verification  protocols  and  arrangements,  and  the terms  of reference
for the  verification  agents to  be hired  pursuant  to  Section  I.D  of Schedule  to  the
Project  Agreement;  and  (g),  monitoring and  evaluation requirements and  reporting
forms,  as  such  manual/plan  might  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with the  prior
written concurrence  of the  Bank.

(f) 

"Safeguard  Documents"  means  collectively  the  EA&EMF,  the  SSDP,  the  GESI
Guidelines,  and the EMP(s).

"Scheduled  Castes  and  Scheduled  Tribes"  means  any distinct,  vulnerable,  social
and cultural  group within the territory of Uttarakhand,  that: (a)  (i)  self-identifies  as
such and claims,  and is recognized by  others  as,  having  a distinguishable  cultural
identity;  (ii)  has  collective  attachment  to  geographically  distinct  habitats  or
ancestral  territories  in the Project area,  and  to the natural resources  in these habitat
and  territories;  (iii)  has  customary  cultural,  economic,  social  and  political
institutions  that  are  separate  from those  of the dominant  society  and  culture;  and
(iv) has an indigenous  language,  often different  from the official language(s)  of the
Borrower  and/or  Uttarakhand;  or (b)  are  defined  as  such  in  the  Constitution  of
India.

"State  Council  of  Vocational  Training"  and  the  acronym  "SCVT"  means  the
Uttarakhand's  State  Council  of Vocational  Training established  pursuant  to Govt.
Order  No.  1334/ID/2001 -110  Industry/2001,  dated  February  28,  2002  under the
aegis  of the Government  of Uttarakhand.

"SSDP"  means  the  Scheduled  Castes,  Scheduled  Tribe  Development  Plan dated
April 2016,  developed  by Uttarakhand  and  disclosed  on the Project Implementing
Entity's  website  and in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  April  23,  2016  setting  forth:  (i)
to  ensure  meaningful  consultation  with,  and  informed
measures  designed 
participation  of,  Scheduled Castes  and Scheduled Tribes and  their communities  in
the  design  and implementation  of the Project  activities,  their  participation  in the
envisioned  culturally  appropriate  and  socially  inclusive  benefits  thereof,  and/or
any  mitigation  and  adaptive  measures  to  offset,  reduce  to  acceptable  levels,  or
eliminate,  any adverse  social impact  to these  communities  under the  Project;  and

- 25  -

(ii)  the GESI Guidelines,  as such plan may be amended from time  to time with the
prior written concurrence  of the Bank.

"State  Project  Implementation  Unit"  and  the  acronym  "SPIU"  mean  the  unit
established  within DSDE  and referred  to in  Section I.A. 1(b)  of the  Schedule to the
Project Agreement.

"Steering  Committee"  means the  inter-departmental  committee  to  be established
pursuant to  Section I.A. 1(a)  of the  Schedule to  the Project Agreement.

"Training  and  Workshops"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of trainings,  seminars,
workshops,  conferences  and  study  tours,  conducted  in  India  and/or  overseas
including:  (a)  the  fees  of  training  institutions  and  courses;  (b)  domestic  and
international  travel costs,  lodging costs, and subsistence/per diem allowances both
for trainers  and  trainees;  (c)  the  rental  of training  facilities;  and  (d)  preparation,
purchase or reproduction  of training materials.

45. 

"UKSDM  Legal  Framework"  means  UKSDM's  Articles  of Association  and By-
laws  as amended  to the date of this Agreement.

46. 

"Uttarakhand"  means  the Borrower's  State of Uttarakhand.

"Uttarakhand  Skills  Development  Mission"  and  the  acronym "UKSDM"  mean  a
society established in Uttarakhand in 2013 under the  Society Registration Act  1980
pursuant to Registration  No.:  326/2012-2013,  dated  February  5,  2013.

"Year  1" means FY2018/19.

"Year 2" means FY2019/20.

"Year 3" means FY2020/21.

"Year 4" means FY2021/22.

"Year  5" means FY2022/23.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions are hereby modified  as follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

42. 

43. 

44. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

1. 

2. 

- 26  -

(a) 

(b) 

The Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at
the  rate  specified in the  Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from
a  date  sixty  days  after the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-
annually  in arrears  on each Payment Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the subsequent paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the purpose of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term "Loan  Payment" is  modified to  read as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount  of the Withdrawn Loan Balance,  interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment  Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any),  any
surcharge,  any prepayment  premium, any transaction  fee for a  Conversion or early
termination  of a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any
premium  payable  upon  the establishment  of an Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar,  and any Unwinding  Amount payable by the Borrower."

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is modified  by deleting  the word  "is"  and inserting
the words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are" after the word "interest".

