OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  8659-AR

Loan Agreement

(Access  to Longer Term  Finance for Micro,  Small and Medium  Enterprises  Project)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date,  between  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower and the  Bank hereby agree as  follows:

INTERNATIONAL 

BANK 

and 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank agrees  to  lend to the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this Agreement,  the amount  of fifty  million Dollars,  ($50,000,000),  as such  amount
may  be converted  from  time  to  time  through  a Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with
the provisions of Section 2.08  of this Agreement ("Loan"), to assist  in financing the project
described  in Schedule  1  to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement. The  Borrower's  Representative  for purposes  of taking  any
action required  or permitted  to be taken pursuant  to this  Section  is MoF's Undersecretary
of International  Financial  Relations.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee payable by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period  shall be at a rate equal to the
Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any portion of the principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in  Section 3.02  (e)
of the  General Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are January  15  and July  15  in each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule set forth in  Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the Loan  in  order to  facilitate prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a change of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn, to  an Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a change of the interest
rate basis applicable to:  (A)  all or any portion  of the principal  amount of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based on  a Variable  Spread to  a Variable  Rate
based on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii) the  setting of limits on the Variable  Rate or the
Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal  amount  of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment  of an Interest  Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which the  Borrower has  requested  that the premium  be paid out  of the
proceeds  of the Loan,  the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with Section  4.05  (c)  of the General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from time  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  to  carry  out  the  Project  pursuant  to  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement,  all  in accordance  with the provisions of Article  V of the General Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower and the  Bank shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is carried out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional  Event of Suspension consists of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

BICE's  Legislation has  been amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived
so  as  to  affect  materially  and adversely,  in the opinion of the Bank,  the ability of
BICE to  perform any of its obligations  under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

BICE  has  failed  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  any  event
specified inparagraphs  (a) or (b) of Section 4.01  of this Agreement occurs and is continuing
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.  The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

The  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of the  Borrower,
through  MoF  and MoP,  and BICE.

(b) 

BICE has  duly established the  BICE  PIU  in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  counsel  for  the
Borrower and  BICE, acceptable  to the Bank,  has  each furnished to the Bank an opinion  or
opinions,  acceptable  to the  Bank,  providing  that the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  has  been
duly  authorized  or ratified  by  the  Borrower,  through  MoF  and  MoP,  and  BICE  and  is
legally binding upon the Borrower and BICE  in accordance  with its terms.

5.03.  The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90)  days  after the  Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,  the Borrower's Representative  is its
Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
C1086AAB,
Buenos Aires,  Argentina

Telex: 
121942-AR 

Facsimile:
(54  11)  4349-8815

6.03.  The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  feAM0447-fe 

t 

i6, 

/~/A'// 

,J  O, 

7 

,  and on behalf of the Borrower on 

$k' 

'  ,wi;, 

on  behalf  of  the  Bank  on

,/7 
A01ell- 

.20, 

9s 2  0

-4-

By

By

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

Authorized Representative

Name: 

/ins  e7 ?#UTo

Title: 

lfwlsrex  e'~)  A1/

INTERNATIONAL 
RECONSTRUCTION 

K F

. LOPMENT

Authodied Rep)sentative

Name: 

NO~~ffA/~f,

Title: 

V,~ &5

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of the Project  are to  improve  access  and  strengthen  the  framework  for the

provision  of longer term finance for eligible  micro,  small and medium enterprises.

The Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part 1:  Line of Credit

Provision of MSMEs  Sub-loans  to Eligible  MSMEs to carry out  Sub-projects.

Part 2:  Institutional Capacity Building  for BICE, Financial  Infrastructure Reforms,  Credit
Guarantee Fund and Capacity BuildinE for MSMEs

Strengthening  of BICE's capacity to  improve and expand its  second-tier lending  functions
2.1. 
based  on  international  best  practices,  and  update  its  risk management,  policies  and  systems,  all
through  the provision of technical  assistance.

Improvement  of the  enabling  environment  for  MSME  access  to  finance,  through  the
2.2. 
carrying  out  of  preparatory  activities  for:  (a)  the  modernization  of  the  Borrower's  secured
transactions  framework;  (b) the strengthening of the Borrower's  insolvency framework;  and (c) the
strengthening  of the  Borrower's public  credit  guarantee  fund.

Strengthening  of SEPYME's  MSME  support  programs  through the  provision of business

2.3. 
development  and management  tools  aimed at making  MSMEs  more bankable.

Part 3: Project Management

Strengthening  of  BICE  PIU's  capacity  to  implement  the  Project,  including,  inter alia: (a)  the
provision of support to  coordinate,  manage,  implement  and supervise the  Project;  (b)  the  carrying
out of progress and results  monitoring activities;  (c)  the  carrying  out of a  mid-term  review  survey
to MSME  Beneficiaries;  and (d)  the carrying  out of the  Project's financial  audits.

-6-

SCHEDULE2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

B. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  to  establish,  and  thereafter  operate  and  maintain,  at all
times  during  Project implementation,  a  Project implementation unit ("BICE PIU"),  with a
structure,  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual,  including,  inter alia, the responsibility  of BICE PIU  to  coordinate,
manage,  implement, monitor  and supervise the carrying out  of the  Project.

Operational Manual

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  to  implement  the  Project  in  accordance  with  a  manual
("Operational  Manual")  which  shall  include,  inter alia:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

a description  of Project activities;

institutional  arrangements  for Project implementation  (including,  inter alia, BICE
PIU  staff  composition  and 
in  Project
implementation);

responsibilities 

roles  and 

their 

a  dedicated section for the implementation  of Part 1  of the Project,  including, inter
alia:

(i) 

(ii) 

procedures  for the preparation  implementation,  monitoring  and evaluation
of  all  the  activities  under  Part  1  of  the  Project,  including  financial
management  and audit procedures  for Eligible PFIs and  Eligible MSMEs;

criteria and procedures  for the selection of Eligible PFIs, Eligible MSMEs
and  Sub-projects;  and

(iii) 

Excluded Activities;

the ESMF and the IPPF.

monitoring,  reporting requirements  and financial management  procedures;  and

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE,  to  not  amend,  delete,  suspend,  or  waive  any  part of the
Operational  'Manual,  without  the  prior  agreement  of the  Bank.  In  case  of  any  conflict
between  the  terms  of the  Operational  Manual  and  those  of this  Agreement,  the  terms  of
this Agreement  shall prevail.

-7-

Subsidiary Loan Agreement

C. 

1. 

For purposes  of carrying out the  Project,  the Borrower,  thorough  MoF and MoP,  shall:  (i)
on-lend  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to  Category  (1)  to  BICE
("Subsidiary Loan");  and (ii)  transfer the proceeds  of the  Loan allocated  from time to time
to  categories  (2)  and (3)  to BICE; all under a  subsidiary agreement  between the Borrower,
through  MoF  and  MoP,  and  BICE  ("Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"),  under  terms  and
conditions approved  by the  Bank,  which shall include,  inter alia, the  following:

(a) 

The  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  shall  contain  provisions  pursuant  to  which  the
Borrower,  through  MoF and/or MoP,  undertakes to:

(i) 

(ii) 

promptly  disburse  to  BICE  the  proceeds  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  in  a
manner acceptable  to the Bank;  and

suspend or terminate the right  of BICE to  use the proceeds  of the Loan,  or
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Loan then withdrawn,
upon BICE's failure to perform any  of its obligations  under the Subsidiary
Loan  Agreement;  and

(iii) 

require BICE to:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

repay the proceeds  of the Subsidiary Loan (which Subsidiary Loan
shall be denominated  in the  Borrower's  local  currency  and  carry
at least the interest rate applicable  to the  Loan pursuant to  Section
2.05  of this Agreement);

in  respect  of Part  1  of the  Project,  select  financial  institutions
according to  the  criteria  and approval  procedures  set  forth in  the
Operational  Manual,  including the  criteria  set forth under Section
I.D.5 of this Schedule;

upon  selection  and  approval  of  an  Eligible  PFI,  enter  into
financing  agreements  with  each  Eligible  PFI  ("PFI  Financing
Agreements")  under  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual,  including,  inter alia,  those  set  forth  in
Section  D  of this  Schedule;

sound 

technical, 

carry  out  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in
accordance  with 
financial,
managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices
satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
including  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Operational  Manual,  the  ESMF,  the  IPPF  and
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of loan
proceeds other than the Borrower;

economic, 

-8-

(E) 

(F) 

(G) 

(H) 

(I) 

(J) 

(K) 

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  facilities,  services  and  other
resources,  necessary or appropriate to  carry out the Project;

monitor  the overall  execution  of the  Project and  the carrying  out
of Eligible  PFIs  of  their  obligations  under  their  respective  PFI
Financing Agreements in accordance  with policies and procedures
satisfactory  to the  Bank;

unless  otherwise  agreed  with the Bank,  allocate,  as an  incentive,
additional  potential  PFI  Financing  to  Eligible  PFIs  that  provide
MSME  Sub-loans to  Eligible  MSMEs  which meet the  criteria set
forth  in  the  Operational  Manual 
inter  alia,  the
following  criteria:  (I)  employ  indigenous  peoples  and/or  have
them  in  their  value  chains;  and/or  (II)  promote  gender  equality;
and/or  (III)  are  first  time  recipients  of an  MSME  Sub-loan,  as
defined in the Operational  Manual;

including, 

maintain  a financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions  and prepare
financial  statements  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  both  in  a  manner
adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of BICE,
including the operations,  resources  and expenditures related to the
Project;

have  such  financial  statements  audited  by  independent  auditors
acceptable  to  the Bank,  in  accordance  with consistently  applied
auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish
the  statements  as so audited to  the Borrower  and the Bank;

enable the  Borrower and  the Bank to  inspect any relevant  records
and documents related with the Project;  and

prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  all  such
information as the Borrower or the  Bank shall reasonably  request
relating  to the  foregoing.

2. 

The Borrower, through MoF and MoP,  shall exercise  its rights and carry  out its obligations
under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the
Borrower and the Bank  and to accomplish  the  purposes of the Loan.  Except  as the Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or
fail to  enforce the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

PFI Financing

D. 

1. 

For purposes  of carrying  out  Part  1  of the Project,  the Borrower,  through  MoF  and  MoP,
shall  cause  BICE  to  on-lend  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to
Category  (1)  to  Eligible  PFIs  (the PFI Financing)  pursuant  to  the  relevant  PFI Financing
Agreement,  under terms and conditions  approved  by the Bank,  including,  inter alia, those
set forth in  Section I.D.2  below and  in the  Operational  Manual.

2. 

Each  PFI  Financing  Agreement  shall  contain  provisions  pursuant  to  which  BICE
undertakes to:

(a) 

suspend  or terminate  the  right  of the  Eligible  PFI  to  use  the  proceeds  of the  PFI
Financing,  or obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any  part  of the amount  of the  same  then
withdrawn, upon the Eligible  PFI's failure to perform  any of its obligations under
the PFI Financing  Agreement;  and

(b) 

require  each Eligible PFI to:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

select  Eligible MSMEs  in  accordance  with the criteria  and procedures  set
forth in  the Operational  Manual,  including the eligibility  criteria  set forth
in Section  I.E.2 of this Schedule;

upon  selection  of  any  given  Eligible  MSME  and  approval  of  the
corresponding  Sub-project,  enter  into  a  sub-loan  agreement  ("the MSME
Sub-loan  Agreement")  with  said  Eligible  MSME  for  the  purposes  of
providing  a  loan  (the  MSME  Sub-loan)  to  such  Eligible  MSME,  all  in
accordance  with terms  and conditions  satisfactory to  the  Bank,  including
those  set  forth in Section I.  E.1  of this Schedule;

carry  out  its  Project  activities  and  conduct  its  operations  and  affairs  in
accordance  with appropriate  financial  standards  and  practices,  including
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines
applicable  to  recipients  of loan  proceeds  other  than  the  Borrower,  with
qualified management  and staff in adequate  numbers;

(A)  select,  appraise  and approve  Sub-projects,  and  thereafter  supervise,
monitor  and  report  on  the  carrying  out  of  said  Subprojects  by  the
corresponding  Eligible  MSME,  all  in  accordance  with  the  Operational
Manual;  and (B)  ensure  that  no  Excluded  Activities  are  included  in  any
Sub-project;

ensure  that  each Sub-project  shall comply  with the  environmental  review
procedures  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  and ESMF.  To  that  end,
Eligible  PFIs  shall  require  each  Eligible  MSME  applying  for  an MSME
Sub-loan  to  furnish  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  showing  that  the

-10-

(vi) 

Sub-project,  in respect  of which the application  has  been  prepared,  is  in
accordance  with such environmental  procedures;

ensure  that  for  Sub-projects  which: 
(A)  require  an  environmental
management  plan,  the respective  Eligible  MSME  shall:  (1)  carry  out such
plan  in accordance  with its  terms  and  in  a  timely manner,  requiring such
environmental  management plan to be in compliance with the Operational
Manual  and  ESMF;  and  (2)  provide  adequate  information  concerning
progress  in  the  carrying  out  of such environmental  management  plan  so
that  said information be included  in the progress reports referred to in sub-
paragraph  (ix)  (B)  of this  paragraph;  and  (B)  involve  the  presence  of
indigenous  people,  the  respective  Eligible  MSME  shall:  (1)  prepare  an
indigenous  peoples  plan  in  accordance  with  the  IPPF;  and  (2)  provide
adequate  information  concerning  progress  in  the  carrying  out  of such
indigenous  peoples  plan  so  that  said  information  be  included 
in  the
progress reports  referred to  in sub-paragraph  (ix)  (B) of this paragraph;

(vii) 

ensure that goods, works,  non-consulting services,  consulting  services and
Working  Capital to  be financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  MSME  Sub-
Loan  shall  be used exclusively  in the  carrying out of the  Sub-project;

(viii) 

(A) 

Exchange  views  with,  and  furnish  all  such  information  to,  the
BICE  and the  Bank,  as may be reasonably  requested  by BICE or
the Bank,  with regard to  the progress  of its activities under Part  1
of  the  Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  its
respective PFI  Financing Agreement,  and other matters relating to
the purposes  of said Part  of the  Project;

(B) 

(C) 

prepare  and submit to  BICE, semiannual  reports on MSMEs  Sub-
loan  disbursements  and  repayments,  and  annual  reports  on  the
progress  made in achieving  the objectives outlined  in the business
plans  submitted  with  the  MSMEs  Sub-loan  applications  and
incorporated  into each  Sub-project;  and

promptly  inform  BICE  and  the  Bank  of  any  condition  that
interferes  or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities
under its respective  PFI Financing  Agreement;

(ix) 

(A) 

Maintain records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect,  in  accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices, 
its  operations  and  financial
condition;  and

(B) 

furnish to  BICE  and the  Bank  such  information  concerning  said
records  and accounts  as  BICE or the Bank  shall from time to time
reasonably  request;

-11-

(x) 

(xi) 

maintain  a financial  management  system and prepare  financial  statements
in  accordance  with consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to
the Bank;  and

at the Bank's or BICE's request, have such financial  statement audited by
in  accordance  with
independent  auditors  acceptable 
consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and
promptly  furnish the statements  so audited to  BICE and the Bank.

to  the  Bank, 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The  Borrower,  through MoF  and MoP, shall  cause  BICE: (a)  to  take  or cause to  be taken
all  action  necessary  or  appropriate  on  its  part  to  enable  Eligible  PFIs  to  perform,  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of their  respective  PFI  Financing  Agreements,  all  the
obligations  of the  Eligible PFIs therein  set forth;  and (b) not to take  or permit  to be taken
any action that would prevent  or interfere  with such performance.

The Borrower,  though MoF and MoP, shall cause  BICE to  exercise its rights and carry  out
its  obligations  under  each  PFI  Financing  Agreement  in  such  a manner  as to  protect  the
interests  of the Bank and the  Borrower  and to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan,  and,
except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  not  to  assign,
amend, abrogate,  waive or fail to enforce any of the provisions of the PFI Agreement which
are listed  in the Operational  Manual.

PFI Eligibility  Criteria.  Except  as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  BICE shall  select  PFIs
in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,
including  that  a  financial  institution  may be selected  as  an  Eligible PFI  only if it  is  duly
established  and  operating  in  the  territory  of the  Borrower  and  in  respect  of which  the
Borrower  shall  have  determined,  and the  Bank shall  have  agreed  with the determination,
that the financial  institution:

(a) 

is not a shareholder of BICE;

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

has audited interim financial reports that comply with the Borrower's Central  Bank
requirements;

has adequate  organization,  management,  staff and other resources necessary  for its
efficient  operation;  and

applies appropriate  procedures  for appraisal,  supervision,  and monitoring  of Sub-
projects, 
the  efficient  evaluation  and  supervision  of  the
environmental  and social  requirements of the Sub-projects.

including 

for 

MSMEs  Sub-loans

E. 

1 .

Upon  approval  of  any  given  Sub-project,  the  Borrower,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  shall  cause  BICE  to  cause  each  Eligible  PFI to  provide  an
MSME Sub-loan to the pertinent Eligible MSME pursuant  to the relevant MSME  Sub-loan

-12-

Agreement,  under terms and conditions set  forth in the Operational  Manual and satisfactory
to the Bank,  including,  inter alia, the following:

(a) 

Each  Eligible  PFI  shall  obtain  rights adequate  to  protect  its  interests and  those of
the Bank,  including:

(i) 

(ii) 

suspend  or terminate  the right  of the  Eligible  MSME  to  use  the proceeds
of the MSME  Sub-loan, or obtain a  refund of all or any part  of the amount
of the MSME Sub-loan then withdrawn, upon the Eligible MSME's failure
to perform  any of its obligations  under the  MSMEs  Sub-loan Agreement;
and

require  each  Eligible  MSME  to:  (A)  carry  out  its  Sub-project  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,
economic,  financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards  and
practices  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  including  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Operational  Manual,  the  ESMF,  the IPPF  (if applicable)
and  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  loan
proceeds  other than the Borrower;  (B) provide  the facilities,  services  and
other  resources,  necessary  or appropriate  to  carry  out the  corresponding
Sub-project;  (C)  maintain  mechanisms  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor
and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Sub-project;  (D)  maintain  a  financial
management  system  and  prepare  financial  statements,  both  in  a  manner
adequate  to  reflect the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  related  to
the  Sub-project,  as  detailed  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  furnish  the
audited  financial statements  to  each Eligible  PFI; (E)  if necessary,  enable
the  Borrower,  BICE,  the  Eligible  PFI  and  the  Bank  to  inspect  the  Sub-
project,  its operation and any relevant  records and documents;  (F)  prepare
and furnish to  the Borrower, BICE,  the Eligible PFI, and the Bank all such
information  as  the  Borrower,  BICE,  the  Eligible  PFI,  or  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request relating to the foregoing;  and (G)  except as the Eligible
PFI,  BICE  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not  to  assign,  amend,
abrogate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  of  the  MSMEs  Sub-loan
Agreement's provisions listed  in the Operational  Manual.

2. 

MSME  Eligibility  Criteria.  Except  as the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the Borrower  shall
cause  BICE to  ensure  that  each MSMEs  Sub-loan  shall be provided to  an Eligible  MSME
only  if it  has  been  established,  to  the  satisfaction  of BICE  and  Eligible  PFI  that  the
following  have been satisfied and,  except the requirement  set forth in paragraph  (a) below,
shall be  maintained throughout  the  duration of the respective  MSME  Sub-loan:

it is a  MSME;

(a) 

(b) 

it  has  a  satisfactory  financial  structure  and adequate  organization,  management,
staff and other  resources  required  for the  efficient  carrying  out of its  operations,
including the carrying  out of the  Sub-project;  and

-13-

(c) 

if applicable,  it has  a certificate  from the  relevant  local  or national  authorities  of
laws  and
the  Borrower  about  compliance  with  applicable  environmental 
regulations  of the Borrower.

3. 

Sub-project  Eligibility  Criteria.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower
shall cause BICE to  verify that each MSMEs  Sub-loan shall  be provided for  a Sub-project
which is determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance  with procedures
acceptable  to the Bank:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

to be technically  feasible  and economically,  financially  and commercially viable;

to be  in compliance  with  all requirements  pertaining  to  environmental  protection
applicable  under  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  Borrower  and  the  ESMF,
including, 
the  preparation  of  the  pertinent  environmental
management  plan;

if  applicable, 

to, if applicable,  be in compliance  with the IPPF;  and

not to be supporting or include any of the  Excluded Activities.

The Borrower shall ensure  that the Project is carried  out in  accordance  with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The Borrower shall cause BICE to ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance  with
the provisions  of the ESMF  and the  IPPF, as  applicable.

Section  H. 

Project Monitorin2 Reporting and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the progress  of the  Project  and
prepare Project  Reports  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators  acceptable  to the Bank.  Each Project Report  shall
cover the period of one calendar semester,  and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than
forty-five  (45) calendar days  after the  end  of the  period covered by such report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  to  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of the  General
Conditions.

F. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

Project Reports

G. 

1. 

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

-14-

2. 

3. 

Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
BICE to prepare  and  furnish to  the Bank  as part  of each Project  Report,  interim unaudited
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  pertinent  semester,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BICE  to  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial Statements  shall cover the period of one  fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited
Financial  Statements  for each  such period  shall be  furnished to  the Bank not later than six
months  after the  end  of such period.

Section HI. 

Procurement

All  goods, works,  non-consulting services  and consulting  services required  for Parts 2  and
3  of the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with the  requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in the  Procurement  Regulations
and the  provisions  of the  Procurement  Plan.

-15-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with the  provisions
of Article II  of the General  Conditions, this Section,  and such additional instructions  as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for Projects"  dated May 2006,  as revised  from time to  time by the Bank and as
made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set forth  in the table in paragraph  2 below.

The  following table specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures that  may be  financed
out of the proceeds  of the  Loan ("Category"),  the allocation  of the amounts  of the Loan  to
each Category,  and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible  Expenditures
in each Category.

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 
44,500,000 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  Taxes)
100%

Category 

(1)  MSME  Sub-loans  under 
Part  1  of the Project
(2) Goods,  consulting 
services, non-consulting
services,  and Training  under
Part 2 of the Project.
(3)  Goods,  consulting 
services, non-consulting
services, Training,  and
Operating Costs  under Part 3
of the Project.
(4) Front-end  Fee 

4,550,000 

825,000 

125,000 

100%

100%

Amount payable pursuant  to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with Section  2.07  (b) of the
General Conditions
Amount due pursuant  to
Section  2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

(5)  Interest Rate Cap  or 
Interest  Rate Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

50,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be  made  for
payments  made  prior  to  the  Signature  Date,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

-16-

amount  not to  exceed $ 1,000,000  may be made  for payments made  prior to  the  Signature
Date but  on or after February 26,  2016  (but in no  case  more than  one year  prior to  the
Signature  Date), for Eligible Expenditures.

2. 

The Closing Date is November  30, 2021.

-17-

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following table  sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the  Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have been fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower on
(a)
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date,  such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each Januaryl5  and July  15

Beginning on January  15,  2024
through July  15, 2048 

On January  15, 2049 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a  Percentage)

1.96%
2.00  %

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as  of the first Principal Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  shall be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as
of such date in  accordance  with paragraph  1  of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment  Date falling  after the date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the  Bank by multiplying  the amount  of each such withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which is the original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in paragraph  1  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts

-18-

payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date, be  treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on the  second Principal  Payment  Date following  the date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal Payment  Date following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date occurring during the Conversion  Period, shall  be determined  by the  Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by the Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions of this Schedule  shall apply separately to the amount  denominated  in each Loan
Currency,  so as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule for each such amount.

-19-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines  on Preventing  and  Combating Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed  by IBRD  Loans  and  IDA Credits  and Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and revised  in January 2011  and  as of July  1,  2016.

"BICE" means  Banco  de Inversi6n y  Comercio Exterior Sociedad Anonima,  a  financial
institution  owned by the Borrower and created pursuant  to BICE's  Legislation.

"BICE's  Legislation"  means  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  2703/91,  dated  December  20,
1991  and published  in the Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on January  6,  1992,  as  said  Decree
has  been  amended  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and  Resolution  No.  65  from  the
Borrower's  Central  Bank,  dated  February  21,  1992.

"BICE  PIU"  means  the  unit  of BICE  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to the Bank.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Category  A  Sub-project"  means an investment  which is  likely to have  significant  adverse
environmental  impacts that are sensitive,  diverse,  or unprecedented,  in accordance with the
Bank's OP/BP  4.01.

"Eligible  MSME" means a micro, small or medium enterprise that satisfies  the appropriate
criteria  as  set  forth  in  the Operational  Manual  (including  the criteria  set  forth  in  Section
I.E.2  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement)  to receive  a MSME  Sub-loan.

"Eligible  PFI"  means  any  financial  institution  incorporated  in  accordance  with  the
Borrower's  laws  and  regulations  and  which meets the criteria  set  forth  in the Operational
Manual  (including  the criteria  set forth  in  Section  I.D.5  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement)
to receive  a PFI Financing.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  BICE's
framework  dated  August  25,  2016,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  disclosed  on the  Borrower's
website  on  August  26,  2016,  and in the  Bank's  website  on  August  26,  2016,  which  sets
forth,  inter alia: (a)  guidelines  for the  identification  of existing  environmental  and  social
conditions  and  potential  direct  and  indirect  environmental  and  social  impacts  and  risks
resulting from the carrying  out of Subprojects;  (b) recommendation  of mitigation measures
for  each  negative  impact  identified;  (c)  measures  for  enhancing  each  identified  positive
impact;  and  (d)  the  guidelines  for  the  preparation  and  carrying  out  of  environmental
assessments  and the related  environmental  management  plans,  as  said framework  may be
amended  from time to time with the Bank's prior approval.

-20-

10. 

"Excluded  Activities"  means,  collectively:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(e) 

any of the activities  listed, or activities that produce  and/or use materials  listed,  in
the  Operational  Manual  and  which  are  classified  and  referred  to  as  part  of the
negative list in  said manual;

any  investment that is classified as a "Category  A  Sub-project" in accordance  with
the provisions  of the Operational  Manual;

any  investment  that  involves Resettlement;

any investment  that  involves  the  use  or potential  pollution  of,  or discharge  into,
International  Waterways  (or  detailed  design  and  engineering  studies  of  such
investment);

any investment that  involves:  (i)  the construction of a new dam or will rely on the
performance  of an  existing  dam or  a  dam  under  construction;  or (ii)  degradation
/or conversion  of natural habitats;  or (iii) the procurement  of pesticides;  and

any  investment  that  involves  a contract  with a  contractor  included  in the  Bank's
list of debarred  or suspended  firms.

11. 

12. 

13. 

"General  Conditions" means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General  Conditions for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with the modifications  set  forth in
Section  II of this Appendix.

"Indigenous  Peoples Planning Framework"  or IPPF" means BICE's framework,  acceptable
to  the  Bank  dated August  25,  2016,  disclosed  on  the  Borrower's  website  on  August  26,
2016,  and  in  the  Bank's  website  on  August 26,  2016,  setting  forth  the guidelines  for the
preparation  and implementation  of indigenous  peoples  plans  in  respect  of Subprojects,  as
the same  may be amended  and  supplemented  from time to time, with the agreement  of the
Bank.

"International  Waterways"  means:  (a)  any river,  canal,  lake,  or similar  body of water  on
the territory of the Guarantor that forms  a boundary between,  or any river or body of surface
water  that  flows  through,  two  or  more  states,  whether  Bank  members  or  not;  (b)  any
tributary or other body of surface water on the territory of the Guarantor that is a component
of any  waterway  described  in  (a)  above;  and  (c)  any  bay,  gulf,  strait,  or channel  on  the
territory of the Guarantor bounded  by two or more states or,  if within one state, recognized
as  a necessary  channel  of communication  between the open  sea  and other states,  and  any
river flowing into  such waters.

14. 

"MoF"  means  Ministerio  de  Finanzas, the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance,  or  any
successor  thereto  acceptable  to the Bank.

-21-

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"MoP"  means  Ministerio de Producci6n, the Borrower's  Ministry  of Production,  or  any
successor  thereto acceptable  to the Bank.

"MSME"  means  a  micro,  small  or  medium  sized  enterprise,  defined  as  such  in  the
Operational  Manual and  collectively referred to  as "MSMEs".

"MSMEs  Sub-loan"  means  a  loan made  or proposed  to  be made  by an  Eligible  PFI to  a
MSME,  out of the proceeds  of any given PFI Financing,  for purposes  of financing  all or a
portion of the expenditures incurred by a MSME for goods, works, non-consulting services,
consulting  services  and Working Capital under  any given  Sub-project.

"MSMEs  Sub-loan Agreement" means  any  agreement referred  to in  Section I.D.2(b)(ii)  of
Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

"Operating  Costs"  means reasonable  incremental  recurrent  expenditures  incurred  by:  (a)
the  Borrower  for  Project  administration  costs  (including  office  rent),  operation  and
maintenance  of  office  equipment,  banking  fees,  non-durable  goods,  costs  for  utilities,
printing  services,  communication  services,  logistics  for workshops,  and  travel  expenses
(air tickets  and per diem); and  (b)  an  Eligible MSME  for,  inter alia, salaries  and  overtime
of staff.

"Operational  Manual"  means BICE's manual,  acceptable  to the Bank,  set forth  in Section
I.B.1  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  dated  September  16,  2016,  as  the  same may  be
amended and  supplemented  from time to  time with the agreement  of the Bank.

"PFI Financing"  means any financing  made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds  of
the Subsidiary Loan by BICE to an Eligible PFI to finance an MSME  Sub-loan pursuant to
the pertinent PFI Financing Agreement.

"PFI  Financing  Agreement"  means any agreement  referred  to  Section  I.C. 1  (a)(iii) (B)  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Procurement  Plan" means  the Borrower's  procurement  plan for Parts  2 and  3  the Project,
dated  September  9,  2016  and  provided  for  under  Section  IV  of  the  Procurement
Regulations,  as the  same may be updated  from time to time in  agreement with the Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for
Borrowers  under Investment  Project Financing",  dated July  1,  2016.

"Resettlement"  means the  impact of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have  their:  (a)  standard  of living  adversely affected;  or
(b)  right,  title  or interest  in  any  house,  land (including  premises,  agricultural  and grazing
land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset  acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or
permanently;  or  (c)  access  to  productive  assets  adversely  affected,  temporarily  or
permanently;  or (d)  business,  occupation,  work or place  of residence  or habitat adversely
affected,  temporarily or permanently.

-22-

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

1. 

2. 

"SEPYME"  means Secretaria de Emprendedores y de la Pequefia y Mediana Empresa, the
Secretariat of Entrepreneurs  and of Small and Medium Enterprises,  established within the
Borrower's  Ministry of Production,  or any successor thereto  acceptable to  the Bank.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest  of the two  dates  on which the  Borrower and  the  Bank
signed the Loan Agreement  and such definition  applies to all references to  "the date of the
Loan Agreement"  in the  General  Conditions.

"Sub-project"  means any activity  for productive  purposes which  meets the criteria set  forth
in the Operational  Manual  (including the criteria set forth in Section  I.E.3 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement).

"Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.C.1  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may be  amended  from  time to  time  with  the
agreement of the Bank.

"Subsidiary  Loan"  means a loan made  out of the proceeds  of the Loan by the Borrower to
BICE pursuant  to the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement.

"Training"  means  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  consultant's  services)  incurred  by
BICE PIU,  all as approved  by the  Bank on the basis of an  annual budget  acceptable  to the
Bank,  to  finance reasonable  transportation  costs  and per-diem  of trainees  and trainers  (if
applicable),  training registration  fees  and rental of training  facilities  and equipment  under
the Project.

32. 

"Working  Capital"  means the Operating  Costs incurred  by an Eligible MSME  to, at least,
maintain the  existing levels  of production of said Eligible  MSME.

Section H. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby  modified  as follows:

In  the  Table of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section names and  Section numbers
are modified  to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs  below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower  shall  pay  the Bank a  front-end  fee on the  Loan  amount  at  the  rate

(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a  commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The

-23-

Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement to the respective  dates on which amounts are withdrawn  by the Borrower from
the Loan Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable semi-annually
in arrears  on each Payment Date."

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

In the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are modified,  as necessary,  to reflect the  modification  set  forth in paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is modified  by  inserting  a new paragraph  19  with  the following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the subsequent paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In the renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph 48)  of the Appendix,  the definition
of "Front-end  Fee" is modified by replacing the reference  to Section 3.01  with Section 3.01
(a).

In the renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally paragraph  67) of the  Appendix,  the definition
of the term "Loan Payment"  is modified to  read as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to the Legal  Agreements  or these General  Conditions,  including  (but not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or early  termination of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any premium  payable upon  the establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

7. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge are"  after the word "interest".

