OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8824-UZ

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Horticulture Development  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF UZBEKISTAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8824-UZ

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  REPUBLIC  OF
UZBEKISTAN 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree  as follows:

INTERNATIONAL 

("Borrower") 

BANK 

and 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the Appendix to  this  Agreement)  apply to
and form part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings  ascribed  to them  in the  General  Conditions,  the  Original  Loan
Agreement  or in the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II- LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of five  hundred  million
Dollars  ($500,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  Project
described in  Schedule  1  to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in accordance  with Section
III of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one  percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge  is  one quarter  of one percent  (0.25%) per annum  on the

Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable  Spread or such rate as may
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are March  15  and September  15  in each year.

2.07.  The principal amount  of the  Loan shall be repaid  in accordance with  Schedule 3  to

this Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through RRA,  in accordance  with the
provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF  THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional Event  of Suspension consists of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Project  Implementation  Plan  and  the  Credit  Line  Investment
Guidelines  have  been  amended,  suspended,  repealed  or waived  without
the  Bank's prior approval;

the  Bank  has  received  evidence,  that  it  considers  credible,  of the  use  of
child or forced labor in  connection with the  Project  activities;  and

the  RRA's  Legislation has been amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed
or waived  so as to  affect, materially  and adversely,  the ability of the RRA
to perform  any of its  obligations  under this Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and is  continuing  for a
period  of sixty  (60)  days  after  notice  of the event  has been  given  by the  Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Condition of Effectiveness  consists  of the following,  namely  that
the  Project  Implementation  Plan  has  been  adopted  by  the  Borrower  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

5.02.  The Effectiveness  Deadline is the  date ninety  (90)  days after the Signature Date.

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01.  The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:

-3-

(a) 

the  Borrower's  address  is:

Ministry of Finance
Mustakillik  Square 5
Tashkent  100008
Republic  of Uzbekistan;  and

(b) 

the Borrower's Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

11  6360  IK  BOL 

(998-71)  239-1225
(998-71)  244-5643

6.03. 

For purposes of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the Bank's address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b) 

the Bank's  Electronic  Address is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

Aud"ed Repr  sentative

Name: DJAMSHID  KUCHKAROV

Title: DEPUTY  PRIME MINISTER
MINISTER  OF FINANCE

Date:  MAY 17,  2018

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized Representative

Name:  CYRIL  MULLER

Title: REGIONAL  VICE PRESIDENT
EUROPE AND  CENTRAL  ASIA

Date: MAY  17,  2018

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  enhance  the  productivity  and  profitability  of

horticulture  sector in the project  area.

The Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part  1.  Agricultural  Support  Services

1. 

Institutional Support Services

(a) 

Strengthening the capacity  of Participating  Research  Institutes  to  conduct
research  and  genetic  material  multiplication  activities  through, 
the
improvement  of their laboratory facilities;  (ii)  the provision of Training  to their staff on the
horticultural  sector  value  chain  development;  (iii)  the  development  of pest  surveillance
maps of horticulture  crops;  and (iv) the  creation of a seed  storage facility  for the Research
Institute  for Vegetables,  Melons  and Potatoes;

inter  alia:  (i) 

(b) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Uzbek  Agency  for  Standardization,
Metrology and Certification  for improving food production  and handling practices  through,
inter alia: (i)  the carrying  out of comparative studies between  existing domestic regulations
and  international  standards  on  food  safety;  (ii)  the  development  of manuals  for quality
management  and packaging  requirements;  (iii)  the  provision  of support  for gathering and
dissemination  of information  about national and international  standards  for food  safety and
quality in  destination markets;  and (iv) the improvement  of the laboratory  facilities.

2. 

Market-led agricultural technology transfer

Bridging  the  knowledge  and  experience  gap  in  the  horticulture  sector  related  to
new  production  techniques,  storage  methods,  post-harvest  handling,  marketing  and
business management  knowledge by:

(a) 

(i)  Establishing a  knowledge management  and market  information system
aimed  to  collect,  organize,  analyze  and  disseminate  data  on  the  horticulture  value  chain
development;  and  (ii)  carrying  out of market  studies.

(b) 

Carrying  out  of  open-field  demonstration  activities  and  Training  for
Beneficiaries  on,  inter  alia,  greenhouse  vegetables  and  potatoes,  fruits  and  berries
production  techniques,  post-harvesting  handling  and storage methods.

Developing  the  value  chain  through,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  creation  of
partnerships  between  producers,  processors  and  traders;  (ii)  the  establishment  of  a

(c) 

-6-

promotional  association  for fruits and  vegetables;  (iii) the provision  of support to producer
participation  in  national  and  international  trade  events;  and  (iv)  the  assessment  of  the
Borrower's  export  and  domestic  marketing  policies  and  the  subsequent  development  of
recommendations  to  improve  said policies.

Part  2.  Access  to Credit

(a) 

Provision through  selected PFIs  of Investment  and Working  Capital  Sub-

Loans  and Lease Financings  to Beneficiaries.

(b) 

Provision of technical  assistance  and  Training  to: (i)  PFIs to  increase their
capacity in managing a range of innovatively  structured finance products that support, inter
alia,  the  development  of  value  chain  financing  products  and  tree-crop  financing
methodolgies;  and  (ii)  MCIs  to  increase  their  capacity  to  appraise  agricultural  loan
mechanisms,  as  well as to  strengthen  their basic management  knowledge.

Part 3.  Project  Management

Provision  of  goods, 

the
implementation  of the Project (including  the areas of financial  management, procurement,
disbursement,  monitoring  and evaluation)  and financing of Incremental  Operating  Costs.

technical  assistance  and  Training 

to  RRA  for 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower  shall  maintain  the RRA  until  completion  of the Project,  with staff,
1. 
resources and terms of reference  satisfactory to the Bank and assign to  it responsibility  for
overall Project  management  and coordination  including:  (a)  preparation and  submission to
the Bank,  by February  1  of each  year,  for its  review  and concurrence,  of an  annual  work
program  for  the  Project  for  the  following  calendar  year,  including  procurement  and
financing plans;  (b) maintenance  of Project  financial  records  and accounts;  (c)  preparation
of applications  for withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the Loan; (d)  preparation  of bidding  and
contract  documents  and  management  of  procurement  procedures  under  the  Project,
including coordination  of the  recruitment  of foreign  and  national consultants  required  for
the Project  implementation;  (e)  supervision  of implementation of work programs under the
Project;  and  (f)  preparation  and  submission  to  the  Bank  of semi-annual  reports  on  the
progress of Project  implementation.

Not  later than one (1)  month after the Effective  Date, the  Borrower, through RRA,
2. 
shall  recruit  a  social  safeguard  specialist  and  three  (3)  provincial  level  environmental
specialists  with terms of reference  acceptable  to the Association.

For the purposes of carrying  out Part  2 of the Project, the Borrower,  through RRA,

3. 
shall:

(a) 

implement  Part  2 of the  Project  in  accordance  with  the provisions  in  the
Credit  Line Investment  Guidelines,  which include:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

the eligibility  criteria and selection procedures  for PFIs;

the  amount,  terms  and  conditions  of  Subsidiary  Loans,  its
implementation  arrangements,  the  amount,  terms  and conditions
of a  Sub-financing;

inter  alia,  Sub-financing 
requirements  under 

the  eligibility  criteria  and  selection procedures  for Beneficiaries,
approval  procedures,
including, 
the  respective  Sub-financing
collateral 
Agreement,  repayment  periods  for  Sub-financing,  the  basis  for
determination  of interest  and other charges on Sub-financing,  and
procurement  procedures  to  be  followed  by  Beneficiaries  and
Sub-financing
under 
reporting 
Agreement;

requirements 

respective 

-8-

(iv) 

safeguard  obligations  described  in  Section  I.D  of this  Schedule
and  requirements  for  Project  Beneficiaries  and  stakeholders  to
comply  with  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations  on  child  and
forced  labor;  and

(b) 

not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Credit  Line  Investment
Guidelines  without  obtaining the prior approval  of the Bank.

The  Borrower,  through RRA,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
4. 
requirements and procedures  set forth or referred to in the Project Implementation  Plan and
shall  not  amend,  suspend,  repeal  or  waive  their  provisions  without  the  Bank's  prior
approval.

B. 

Subsidiary Loan Agreements

To  facilitate  the carrying  out  of Part  2  of the  Project,  the Borrower  shall  make  a
1. 
part  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  under  subsidiary  agreements  between  the
Borrower,  RRA and  each PFI  under terms  and conditions  approved by the Bank,  including
those  set  forth in Section  B.4 below ("Subsidiary  Loan Agreements").

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  in
2. 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
assign,  amend, abrogate  or waive the  Subsidiary Loan Agreements  or any of its provisions.

The Borrower  shall,  in  close  cooperation  with the  Bank,  select  PFIs  for Part  2 of
3. 
the Project in accordance  with the eligibility  criteria set forth in the  Credit Line Investment
Guidelines.

The  PFIs  shall  carry  out  appraisal  of  Sub-projects  and  Beneficiaries  based  on
4. 
criteria  set  forth in the  Credit Line  Investment  Guidelines.  Appraisal  of Sub-projects  shall
include,  inter alia: (i) environmental  screening  of the proposed  activities  and determining
what  type  of environmental  impact  assessment  has  to  be carried  out by  the  Beneficiary;
and  (ii)  screening  of Sub-projects  proposals  and Beneficiaries  to  ensure  compliance  with
applicable  laws  and regulations  on child and forced labor.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  with  PFIs  for
5. 
Sub-financings  shall comply with, but not be limited to, the following terms and conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

the  amount  of Subsidiary  Loan  to  each  PFI  shall  be  made  available  in
Dollars or  Soum;

the  principal  amount  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be  repaid  by  the
respective  PFI  in  Dollars  or  in  Soum  to  the  Borrower  in  semi-annual
installments over  twenty  five  (25)  years,  including  a  grace period  of five
(5)  years;

-9-

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

interest  shall  be  charged  on  the  outstanding  balances  of the  Subsidiary
Loans  at rates  acceptable  to the Bank;

each PFI shall  carry out activities  under Part 2 of the Project  in accordance
with the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;

each  PFI  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  implementation  of  Sub-
projects  and  ensuring  compliance  of Beneficiaries  with  any  applicable
laws  and regulations  on child and forced  labor.  In case of established  non-
compliance  with  laws  and  regulations  on  child  and  forced  labor  by  a
Beneficiary  utilizing  Sub-financing  from  a  respective  PFI,  said  Sub-
financing  shall be refunded to  the RRA  and such PFI shall  be disqualified
from  providing  Sub-financings  under  Part  2  of  the  Project,  all  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  criteria  and  provisions  established  in  the
Credit  Line Investment  Guidelines.

C. 

Sub-financing

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  PFIs  make  Sub-financing  to  Beneficiaries  in
I. 
accordance  with  terms  and conditions,  eligibility  criteria  and procedures  set  forth  in  the
Credit  Line Investment  Guidelines.

Sub-financing  shall  not  finance:  (i)  any  non-eligible  activities  or  expenditures
2. 
listed  in  the  Credit  Line  Investment  Guidelines;  (ii)  any  Sub-projects  requiring  land
acquisition  or resettlement or loss of assets  or income;  and (iii) any  Sub-project  relating to
cotton production.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  PFIs  make  each  Sub-financing  under  a  Sub-
3. 
financing Agreement  with each Beneficiary  on terms  and conditions  set forth in the Credit
Line Investment  Guidelines,  which shall, inter alia, include  the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Investment  and  Working  Capital  Sub-loan  and  Lease  Financing shall
be made to  each Beneficiary  in Dollars  or Soum;

interest  shall  be charged  by  a  PFI  on the  principal  amount  of each  Sub-
financing  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from time to  time,  at  the prevailing
interest  rate under  the concerned  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  of said PFI
as  determined  in  accordance  with  Section  B.5  (c)  above  plus  a  market-
based  spread determined  by the PFI  making  such Sub-financing;

each Sub-financing  shall  be  made by  the PFI  to the Beneficiary  on terms
to  the  maturity,  currency
and  conditions, 
denomination,  and other charges  determined  in accordance  with the PFI's
investment  and  lending  policies  and  practices,  and  the  provisions  of the
Credit  Line Investment Guidelines;

including  those  relating 

-10-

(d) 

(e) 

selected  Sub-project  proposals  for Investment  and Working Capital  Sub-
loan  or Lease  Financings based  on the relevant  selection criteria  set  forth
in the  Credit Line  Investment Guidelines  shall  be submitted  by the  PFI to
the  Bank  for  its  prior  review  and  approval,  as  further  described  in  the
Credit  Line Investment  Guidelines;  and

each  Sub-financing  shall  be  made  by the  PFI to  the  Beneficiary on terms
and  conditions,  including  rights  adequate  to  protect  the  interests  of the
Borrower  and the Bank,  namely,  the  right to:

(i) 

(ii) 

suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  the  Beneficiary  to  use  the
proceeds  of the  Sub-financing,  or  declare  to  be immediately  due
and  payable  all  or  any  part  of the  amount  of the  Sub-financing
then withdrawn,  upon the Beneficiary's  failure to  perform  any of
its obligations  under the  Sub-financing  Agreement;

in  case of established  non-compliance  by  a  Beneficiary  with any
applicable  laws and regulations  on child and forced  labor,  suspend
or terminate the right  of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds  of the
Sub-financing  and  request  a  refund  of disbursed  amounts  under
the  Sub-financing  Agreement;  and

(iii) 

require  each Beneficiary to:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

carry  out  its  Sub-project:  (1)  with  due  diligence  and
in  accordance  with  sound  technical,
efficiency  and 
economic,  financial,  managerial,  environmental,  health
and  social  standards  and  practices,  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  (2)  comply  with  the  requirements  of  applicable
laws  and  regulations  on  child  and  forced  labor;  (3)  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption
Guidelines applicable  to recipients  of loan proceeds other
than  the  Borrower;  and  (4)  in  accordance  with  the
Environmental  Management  Framework;

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for
the purpose;

procure  the  goods,  works  and  services  to be financed  out
of the  Sub-financing  in accordance  with the provisions  of
this  Agreement;

(D) 

maintain  policies and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to
in  accordance  with  indicators
monitor  and  evaluate 

-11-

(E) 

(F) 

(G) 

acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of the  Sub-project
and the  achievement  of its objectives;

(1)  maintain a  financial management  system and prepare
financial  statements 
in  accordance  with  consistently
applied accounting  standards  acceptable  to the Bank, both
in a manner  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations,  resources
and expenditures  related to the  Sub-project;  and (2)  at the
Bank's request,  have such financial  statements  audited by
independent  auditors  acceptable 
in
accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards
acceptable 
the
statements as  so  audited to the Borrower and  the Bank;

the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish 

the  Bank, 

to 

to 

enable  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to  inspect  the  Sub-
project, 
its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents;  and

prepare and furnish  to the  Borrower and the Bank all such
information as  the  Bank shall  reasonably  request  relating
to the  foregoing.

D. 

Safeguards

Environmental Management Framework

The  Borrower,  through  RRA,  shall  implement  the  Project  pursuant  to  the  ESMF
1. 
in  a manner  satisfactory to  the  Bank and shall  provide  the Bank  with a  summary status  of
its  implementation,  including  results  from  environmental  monitoring,  as  part  of Project
Reports  or when  specifically requested by the  Bank,  and, to  that  end,  if any activity under
the Project  would  require the  adoption of any site-specific  ESMP,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(i)  prepare  such ESMP  in  accordance  with the  ESMF;  and  (ii)  thereafter
adopt such  ESMP prior to  implementation  of the activity;  and

thereafter take such measures  as shall be necessary or appropriate  to ensure
full compliance  with the requirements of such ESMP.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in  compliance  with
2. 
applicable  laws  and  regulations  on  child  and  forced  labor,  including  ensuring  such
compliance by  the  PFIs and Beneficiaries.

The  Borrower,  through  RRA,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  activities  under  the
3. 
Project will not  include  any  land  acquisition,  displacement  of people,  and construction  of
new or rehabilitation  of existing  dams.

-12-

TPM and Feedback Mechanism

The  Borrower,  through  RRA,  shall  take  all  necessary  actions,  and  ensure  that
4. 
necessary  actions are taken, to  enable the TPM Consultant to perform monitoring  activities
in accordance  with the  applicable terms of reference,  including but not limited to allowing
and facilitating  for the TPM Consultant to visit sites where  the Project is being carried out,
collect relevant  data  and  communicate  with Project  stakeholders  and participants.

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  review  and  discuss  with  the  Bank  monitoring  reports
5. 
prepared by  the TPM  Consultant;  and (b)  promptly  take any actions,  as may be requested
by  the  Bank  upon  its  review  of  said  reports,  with  respect  to  compliance  with  the
undertakings  relating  to  child  and/or  forced  labor  as  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  the
Project  Implementation Plan.

The  Borrower:  (a)  shall  and  shall  cause  respective  local  authorities  to  fully
6. 
collaborate  with  the  TPM  Consultant  in  developing  an  effective  grievance  redress
mechanism  in connection with the Project  activities or within the Project Area,  as set forth
in the TPM  Consultant's  terms  of reference;  (b)  shall review  biannual  reports  of the TPM
Consultant on grievances  received, redress mechanism  and any  feedback provided;  and (c)
the
shall  promptly 
recommendations  provided in said reports.

implement  or  cause  relevant 

local  authorities 

implement 

to 

Section  H. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  furnish to  the  Bank each  Project  Report not  later  than  forty-

five (45)  days  after the  end of each calendar semester,  covering  the calendar  semester.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

Without limitation upon the  provisions  of Article II  of the  General Conditions and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the  Borrower
may withdraw the proceeds  of the Loan to: (a)  finance Eligible Expenditures;  and  (b) pay:
(i)  the  Front-end  Fee;  in  the  amount  allocated  and,  if applicable,  up  to  the percentage  set
forth  against each Category of the  following table:

-13-

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

20,361,400 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
Financed
(exclusive  of Taxes  other
than Withheld Taxes)
100%

(1)  Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting  services,
consulting  services  and
Training  under Part  1.1  (b)
of the Project
(2)  Non-consulting 
services,  consulting
services,  Training and
Incremental  Operating
Costs  under Parts 2(b)  and
3  of the  Project
and 
(3) 
Investment 
Working  Capital  Sub-loans
and Lease Financings under
Part  2(a)  of the  Project
(4) Front-end  Fee 

2,110,870 

100%

476,277,730 

100%

1,250,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement 
in  accordance
with Section  2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 

500M000R000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

(a) 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  above,  no withdrawal  shall be made:

for payments  made  prior to the  Signature  Date;  or

under  Category  (3)  unless  the  Borrower  has:  (i)  prepared  and  approved
the  Credit  Line  Investment  Guidelines  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  and  (ii)  entered  into  the  respective  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements
with RRA and each PFI under terms  and conditions  approved by the Bank
pursuant to  Section  I.B of this  Schedule.

2. 

The Closing Date is June  30, 2023.

-14-

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization Repayment  Schedule

The following table sets forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates of the Loan  and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Principal Payment Date 

On each March  15  and September  15

Beginning March  15, 2023 
through  September  15,  2042

Installment Share

2.50  %

-15-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines" means,  for purposes of paragraph  5  of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on Preventing  and Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in Projects Financed by  IBRD Loans  and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October  15,  2006  and revised in January  2011  and  as of July  1,  2016.

"Beneficiary"  means  any  individual,  private  agriculture  enterprise,  dehkan farm,
farmer,  or  farmers'  association,  agro-firm,  who  is either  engaged  in or intends  to
engage  with  support  of  Investment  and  Working  Capital  Sub-loan  or  Lease
Financing  in  any  agribusiness  activity  in  a  rural  area,  including  processing,
marketing,  distribution,  trade,  service  and  production  activities,  duly  registered
pursuant  to  the  laws  of the  Borrower,  to  which  a  PFI,  proposes  to  make  or  has
made  an  Investment  and  Working  Capital  Sub-loan  or  a  Lease  Financing,  and
"Beneficiaries"  means any group of said Beneficiary.

"Category"  means a category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2
to this Agreement.

"Credit  Line  Investment  Guidelines"  means  the  guidelines  referred  to  in  Section
I.A.2  of Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement and  Section I.A.3  of Schedule
2 to this Agreement  to  be updated for the purposes of this Agreement.

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment"  or  "ESIA" means the Borrower's
environmental  and social  impact  assessment  acceptable  to the  Bank,  prepared or to
be  prepared  during  the  Project  implementation  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF
identifying  and  assessing  the  potential  environmental  and  social  impacts  of  a
proposed  Sub-project,  evaluating  alternatives,  and  designing  appropriate
mitigation,  management,  and monitoring  measures;  the  "Environmental  and Social
Impact Assessments"  or "ESIAs"  means the plural  thereof.

"ESMP" means the Borrower's site-specific  environmental  and social management
plan,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  prepared  or  to  be  prepared  during  the  Project
in  accordance  with  the  ESMF  and  approved  by  the  Bank,
implementation 
describing  environmental  mitigation,  monitoring and institutional measures  for any
Sub-project  under the Project;  the "ESMPs"  means the plural  thereof.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Borrower's  Environmental  Management  Framework,  updated  and  disclosed by the
Borrower on November 26, 2017 and disclosed by the Bank's website on November
30,  2017,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  describing  the  environmental  mitigation,
monitoring and  institutional  measures  under  the  Project  and  referred  to  in  Section
I.D  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement  and outlining  the procedures  for:  (a)  screening

-16-

Sub-projects  based on their expected impacts  on the natural and social environment,
assigning a project  environmental  category,  and  defining a  need  for environmental
assessment  as  part  of the  procedure  for  preparing  ESMP(s);  (b)  Environmental
Guidelines  including  inter alia: (i)  rules  and  procedures  for  Environmental  and
Social  Impact  Assessments  (ESIAs);  (ii)  environmental  impacts of the Project;  (iii)
generic  mitigation  measures  to  be  undertaken; 
(iv)  monitoring  plan  format
including,  inter  alia, monitoring  indicators,  timing,  methods;  (v)  institutional
responsibilities  in  all phases  of the  Project's  implementation;  (vi)  disclosure  and
consultation 
for  preparation  of  simple
pest/pesticide management  plans that  outlines the  procedures  for  ensuring the  safe
handling,  storage  and  use  of  pesticides  and  promotion  of  integrated  pest
management  as  an alternative  option  for the use of pesticides.

requirements;  and 

(c)  provisions 

"FBM"  "Feedback  Mechanism"  means the  system  aimed to  receive  grievances  on
alleged  child and forced  labor occurrences  that might be associated  with the Project
activities  or  within  the  Project  Area,  to  be  carried  out by  the  TPM  Consultant  in
accordance  with the relevant  terms of reference  approved by the  Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated July  14, 2017.

including  office 

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  by  the
RRA  on  account  of  Project  implementation,  management,  monitoring  and
supervision, 
supplies, 
equipment  maintenance,
communication,  local  travel,  vehicles  operation  and  maintenance,  reasonable
expenses  for accident insurance  of RRA staff and for third party liability insurance
of RRA drivers,  reasonable  commercial  bank charges,  salaries  of the support  staff
of  RRA,  (including  the  uniform  social  charges  and  the  applicable  income  tax
retained  at  the  source but  excluding  salaries  of civil  servants  of the Borrower),  as
such  expenditures  are set forth  in the RRA  semi-annual budget,  satisfactory  to the
Bank and such other  expenditures  as may be agreed  upon by the  Bank

office 

"Institute  for  Fruit  Growing,  Viticulture  and  Winemaking"  or  "MIRZAVEV"
means  the  institute  for  growing,  viticulture  and  winemaking,  an  academic
institution  established  pursuant  to  the  Resolution  of President  of the  Republic  of
Uzbekistan  No.2125  dated  February  10,  2014, or any successor thereto.

"Investment  and Working Capital Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by  a  PFI  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan  for purposes  of financing  all  or a
portion of the  expenditures  incurred  by a  Beneficiary  under a Sub-project.

"Lease  Financing"  means  financing  provided  or to  be  provided  by  a  PFI  to  a
Beneficiary  for purposes  of  financing  the  lease  of (with  the  option  to  purchase)
vehicles,  equipment  and/or machinery  for purposes of carrying  out a  Sub-project,

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

-17-

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

involving the periodical  payment to  PFI of a  lease payment consisting  in part of an
amortization  component  as set forth  in the Credit  Line Investment Guidelines.

"MCI" means  micro-credit institution,  and  "MCIs" means the  plural thereof.

"Participating  Research  Institutes"  means,  collectively,  the  Institute  for  Fruit
Growing,  Viticulture  and  Winemaking  (MIRZAVEV);  the  Research  Institute  for
Vegetables,  Melons  and Potatoes  (RIVMP);  and  the  Scientific  Research  Institute
for  Plant  Protection  (UzNIIZR);  and  any  other  research  institute  selected  in
accordance  with  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Project  Implementation  Plan  and
acceptable  to the Bank.

"PFI"  means a  commercial  bank  or  lease  company  of the  Borrower,  as the  same
are defined by the Borrower's applicable  legislation,  selected to  participate in Part
2  of the  Project  pursuant  to  the  eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Credit  Line
Investment Guidelines  for the purposes  of Part  2  of the  Project.

"Research  Institute for Vegetables,  Melons  and Potatoes" or "RIVMP" means  the
institute  for  vegetables,  melons  and potatoes,  an  academic  institution  established
pursuant  to  the  Resolution  of President  of the  Republic  of Uzbekistan  No.2125
dated  February  10, 2014,  or any successor thereto.

"Original  Loan"  means  the  Loan No.  8393-UZ  provided  by the Bank to  assist  in
the financing  of the Original  Project (as  hereinafter  defined).

"Original  Loan Agreement" means  the agreement  for the  financing of the  Original
Project  (as  hereinafter  defined)  between  the  Borrower  and the  Bank,  dated  April
8,2015.

"Original  Project" means the Project  described  in the Original  Loan Agreement.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers",  dated July 2016,  revised  November 2017.

"Project  Area"  means  the  following  Borrower's  regions:  Andijon;  Bukhara;
Jizzak;  Ferghana;  Kashkadarya;  Karakalpakstan;  Khorezm;  Namangan;  Navoiy;
Samarkand;  Sirdaya;  Surhandarya;  and Tashkent,  and  such other regions  as  may
be  agreed from time  to time between the  Borrower and the Bank.

"Project  Implementation  Plan"  means  the  manual  adopted  by  the  Borrower
pursuant  to  Section  5.01  of the  Original  Loan  Agreement  that  has  been updated
and  adopted  by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Section  5.01  (a)  of this  Agreement,
setting forth,  inter alia, the institutional,  disbursement,  procurement  and  financial

-18-

management  arrangements  for the  implementation  of the  Project and updated  for
the purposes  of this Project.

"RRA"  means the Rural Restructuring Agency,  an independent administrative body
operating  under  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Agriculture  and  Water  Resources,  or
any  successor thereto.

"RRA  Legislation"  means the  Decree of the  Cabinet of Ministers  of the  Republic
of Uzbekistan No.  356 dated  August 19,  1998.

"Signature  Date" means  the  later of the  two dates  on which the Borrower and  the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such definition  applies to  all references  to  "the
date  of the  Loan Agreement"  in the  General  Conditions.

"Scientific  Research  Institute  for  Plant  Protection"  or  "UzNIIZR"  means  the
institute  for plant  protection,  an  academic  institution  established  pursuant  to  the
Resolution of the President  of the  Republic  of Uzbekistan No.2640  dated October
24,  2016,  or any  successor thereto.

"Soum"  means the lawful  currency  of the Borrower.

"Sub-financing  Agreement"  means an  Investment  and  Working  Capital Sub-loan
agreement  to be  entered into between the PFI and the Beneficiary,  as the case  may
be,  for  provision  of  an  Investment  and  Working  Capital  Sub-loan  or  Lease
Financing  pursuant to  the Credit  Line Investment  Guidelines.

"Sub-financing"  means  an  Investment  and  Working  Capital  Sub-loan  or  Lease
Financing,  collectively.

"Sub-project"  means  any  specific  investment  project  or value-chain  project  for a
productive  agribusiness  activity  that  meets  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Credit  Line
Investment Guidelines.

"Subsidiary  Loan Agreement"  means the agreement referred  to in  Section I.B. 1  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement  pursuant  to  which the  Borrower  shall  make part  of
the proceeds  of the Financing available  to  the  PFI,  as the  same may be  amended
from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  supplemental  to  the
Subsidiary  Loan Agreement.

"Subsidiary  Loan" means any  loan made by the Borrower to  a PFI for the purposes
of on lending  to a Beneficiary pursuant to  a  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement.

"TPM  Consultant"  means  a firm  or  organization,  with internationally  recognized
expertise  in  social  audit  and  monitoring  and evaluation  of development  projects,

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

-19-

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

to be engaged  by the Bank for carrying out TPM  and FBM  in accordance  with the
relevant  terms of reference approved  by the  Bank.

"TPM"  or "Third  Party Monitoring"  means monitoring  activity  (including,  inter
alia: periodic  site visits;  assessments  of local  context  and conditions;  interviews,
awareness  raising,  training  and preparation  of reports) to be carried out by a TPM
Consultant  with the purpose of  detecting any occurrence  of child and forced  labor
in connection with the Project activities or within the Project Area,  and confirming
compliance  with applicable  laws  and regulations  on child and  forced  labor,  all  in
accordance  with the  relevant  terms  of reference  approved  by the  Bank.

"Training"  means  reasonable  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  Goods  and
Consultants'  services),  as  approved  by the  Bank,  incurred  for  the  carrying  out  of
training  activities  and  study  tours  under  the  Project,  including,  inter  alia,
reasonable  costs of travel and per diem of trainers and trainees,  cost of workshops,
rental  of training  facilities  and  equipment  and  training  materials,  all  based  on  a
semi-annual budget  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Uzbek  Agency  for  Standardization,  Metrology  and  Certification"  means  the
agency for  standardization,  metrology and certification  established pursuant  to the
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No.342 dated
October  3,  2002, or any successor thereto.

"Withheld  Taxes"  means  the  following  taxes  withheld  at  source:  taxes  for  social
charges;  income  taxes  for  residents  and  non-residents;  and  custom  registrations
duties withheld at the source.

