OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8861-ID

OCT  2G18

B Y: 

-----  ---
------- 

Loan Agreement

Integrated  Infrastructure  Development  for National Tourism Strategic  Areas
(Indonesia Tourism Development  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA  ("Borrower")  and INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the Bank hereby  agree as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply to

and form part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires otherwise,  the capitalized  terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them  in the  General Conditions  or in the Appendix
to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of three  hundred  million
United States Dollars  (USD  300,000,000),  as  such amount  may be converted  from
time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"), to  assist  in  financing  the
project  described  in Schedule  1  to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan in accordance  with Section

IV  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

2.04. 

2.05. 

The Front-end  Fee is one  quarter of one  percent (0.25%) of the  Loan amount.

The  Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter  of one percent  (0.25%) per  annum  on the
Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

The  interest rate is  the Reference Rate plus the Variable  Spread  or such rate as may
to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject 
Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment Dates are January  15  and  July  15  in each  year.

2.07. 

The principal amount  of the Loan  shall be  repaid in accordance  with Schedule 3  to
this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

If on any  given  day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of
this  Section),  the Borrower shall pay to the  Bank a  surcharge  at the rate of
one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i) of this  Section)  for

-2-

each  said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall be payable  semi-annually  in arrears  on  each Payment  Date.

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess Exposure Amount"  means  for  each day  during
which  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total  amount  of said  excess;  and (B)  the
ratio of all  (or,  if the  Bank  so determines,  a portion)  of the  Loan
to  the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or the  equivalent  portions)  of the
loans  made  by the  Bank  to  the Borrower  and  to  other borrowers
guaranteed  by  the Borrower  that  are  also  subject  to  an  exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to time by the Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if exceeded,
would subject  the Loan to  the Exposure  Surcharge,  as  determined
from time to  time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure to  the  Borrower,  as reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares its commitment  to the objectives of the Project. To this end,
the Borrower  shall carry out  the Project  through  the Ministry of Public  Works  and
Housing  (MPWH),  the  Ministry  of  Tourism  and  the  Indonesia  Investment
Coordinating  Board in accordance  with the provisions  of Article  V of the General
Conditions  and Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01.  The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the following  namely,  that,
the Borrower has  adopted  the Project  Operational  Manual  in  form and substance
satisfactory  to the Bank.

4.02.  The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90)  days  after the Signature  Date.

-3-

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01.  The Borrower's  Representative  is  the Minister  of Finance.

5.02. 

For  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of  the  General  Conditions:  (a)  the  Borrower's
address  is:

Directorate  General of Budget  Financing  and Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans  Seda
Jalan  DR.  Wahidin Raya  No.  1
Jakarta  10710
Indonesia;  and

(b) the Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:  Facsimile:  +62-21-381-2859

5.03. 

For  purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:  (a)  the Bank's  address
is:

International Bank  for Reconstruction and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b) the Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  as  of the  Signature Date.

REPUBLI 

F  INDONESIA

-4-

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  LUK'I  ALFIMAN 

A

i*ECTOrL  CitEURAL-  OF  evocT
f1NArJCIc\  AmpDP  -Isy  MAi\A6MEF

Title: 

Date: 

OCTIOPR 

.4 

,  .2018

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Name: 

__

By- 

Title:

Date: 

Authorized  Represenlative

LS

'
-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objectives  of the Project  are to improve  the quality of,  and access  to,  tourism-
relevant  basic  infrastructure  and  services,  strengthen  local  economy  linkages  to  tourism,
and  attract private  investment  in Selected  Tourism  Destinations  in Indonesia.

The Project  consists of the following  parts:

Part  1:  Increase  institutional  capacity  to  facilitate  integrated  and  sustainable  tourism

development

Carrying  out a  technical  assistance  program  designed  to  increase  institutional  capacity  to
facilitate  integrated  and  sustainable  tourism  development  and such  a  program  to  include
such  activities  as:

(a) 

(b) 

preparation  of  integrated  tourism  master  plans  for  Selected  Tourism
Destinations,  preparation  of related downstream  sectoral master plans and
studies,  and institutional  development  and capacity  building  for  integrated
tourism destination planning,  including the protection and  management  of
World Heritage  sites,  Global  Geoparks,  and Biosphere  Reserves;

supporting  the  overall  capacity  of  the  Project  implementing  entities  at
national  and  subnational  levels  to  coordinate,  manage  and  supervise  the
implementation  of  the  Project,  including,  inter alia: (i)  carrying  out  of
financial  management,  procurement,  environmental  and  social  safeguards
management;  (ii) monitoring,  evaluation  and reporting  of the Project;  (iii)
supporting  inter-ministry/agency  coordination;  and  (iv)  carrying  out
Project  communication  and  dissemination  activities;  and

(c) 

supporting  activities related to natural,  cultural and social asset monitoring
and preservation.

Part 2:  Improve  tourism-relevant road  quality and basic services  accessibility

Carrying  out  Sub-projects  designed  to  enhance  the  quality  and  condition  of  tourism-
relevant  roads,  provide facilities  for  public transport  and  non-motorized  transport,  as well
as  improve  access  to  basic  services  and  infrastructure  essential  for  a  satisfactory  tourist
experience  and for the preservation  of natural  and cultural  assets,  and such  Sub-projects  to
comprise  such activities  as:

(a) 

rehabilitation,
construction,  widening, 
betterment  and  maintenance  of  the  tourism-relevant  roads  including
bridges;

reconstruction, 

improvement, 

-6-

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

construction  and  improvement  of  pedestrian  and  non-motorized  traffic
facilities,  development  and  improvement  of parks  and  greenery  and  the
for  public
construction  and  improvement  of  subnational 
transport;

facilities 

construction,  upgrade,  rehabilitation,  and  expansion  of infrastructure  for
water  supply,  sanitation,  wastewater  management  and  solid  waste
management  including  provision  of  supporting  facilities,  consultant
services  and equipment  such as garbage collection trucks to support these;
and

carrying  out  feasibility  studies  and  detailed  engineering  designs  and
provision  of management  and  supervision  consultants'  services  required
for civil  works under  this  Part.

Part 3:  Promote local participation  in the tourism  economy

Carrying  out  a  technical  assistance  program  designed  to  increase  participation  of local
firms,  individuals  and  communities  in  the  tourism  sector  and  such  a  program  to  include
such  activities as:

provision  of relevant  and high-quality  competency-based  training  (CBT)
and  the  strengthening  of the  certification  system  of the  tourism  sector  in
the  Selected  Tourism  Destinations  through,  inter  alia: (i)  developing
related
competency-based  standards,  qualification 
curriculum  packages;  (ii)  training  of trainers,  teachers  and  assessors  for
improved delivery  of CBT and developing related guidance  materials; (iii)
provision of technical  assistance  for technical  and vocation  education  and
to  align  with  private  sector  demands
training  (TVET)  institutions 
including  provision  of  required  TVET  equipment;  (iv)  provision  of
training (including  life-long learning)  and certification;  and (v) holding bi-
annual tourism skill development  forums;

frameworks  and 

assisting  local  tourism  firms  to  improve  online  presence  and  quality  of
service  standards through,  inter alia: monitoring,  evaluating  and providing
training  to  improve  online  presence  and  service  and  quality  standards  of
local  tourism  firms,  including  acquisition  of travel  website data  to design
related  policies  and programs;  and

re-designing,  implementation,  and  monitoring  of Ministry  of Tourism's
community awareness  and  engagement  program  (Sadar Wisata) through,
inter alia: (i)  support  to increase the  number of community participants  in
the  Selected  Tourism Destinations;  (ii)  redesign,  using  international  best
practice,  Sadar Wisata program  to  be more  focused  on,  and  effective  in,

-7-

empowering  communities  in  Selected Tourism Destinations  to  participate
in tourism;  and  (iii) carrying  out  community  satisfaction  surveys.

Part  4:  Enhance  the  enabling  environment  for  private  investment  and  business  entry  in

tourism

Carrying  out  a  technical  assistance  program  to  design  and  implement  tourism  destination
specific  investment  planning to  include  such activities  as:  (a)  the preparation  and  updating
of  investment  project  ready  to  offer  (I-PRO);  (b)  market  sounding  activities;  and  (c)
monitoring  of investment  projects.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

maintain until  completion  of the  Project,  the  Steering  Committee  chaired
by BAPPENAS  - and comprising the  Ministers  from inter alia: Ministry
of Tourism, Ministry  of Public Works  and  Housing,  Indonesia  Investment
Coordinating  Board  and  Ministry  of Finance,  which  shall  be responsible
tourism  development,  especially
for  cross-sector  coordination 
Indonesia,  and  planning-budgeting
destination  development  across 
alignment;

for 

the  Technical  Committee
maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project, 
comprising  echelon  I  officials  from,  inter alia: BAPPENAS,  Ministry  of
Tourism,  Ministry  of Public  Works  and  Housing,  Indonesia  Investment
Coordinating  Board,  and  Ministry  of Finance,  which  shall be  responsible
for oversight  of tourism  development  at the national  level,  and  support  to
the provincial and  local  task forces;

cause  to establish prior  to the commencement  of Project activities  in  each
such  Province,  Kabupaten/Kota,  and  thereafter  maintain until  completion
of the Project,  Provincial Task Forces  and Kabupaten/Kota  Task Forces  in
in  the  Selected  Tourism
each  of  the  Provinces  and  Kabupaten/Kota 
Destinations,  which  shall be  responsible  for cross-sector  coordination  for
tourism  development  at  the  Province/Kabupaten/Kota  level,  subnational
government  planning-budgeting  alignment;  and  oversight  of  tourism
development  at the Province/Kabupaten/Kota  level;

maintain  until completion  of the Project,  the Central Project  Management
the  Regional  Infrastructure  Development  Agency
Unit  (CPMU) 
(RIDA),  which shall  be  responsible  for  the  management  and  monitoring
of the Project;

in 

maintain  until  completion  of the  Project,  Central  Project  Implementation
Units  (CPIUs)  in  the  Ministry  of Public  Works  and  Housing,  Indonesia
Investment  Coordinating  Board,  and  the  Ministry  of Tourism,  each  of
which  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  implementation  of the  Project
including recruitment  of consultants  and  service providers  and  production
of reports  on  the  progress  of the  Project,  in  each  case,  with  a  mandate,

-9-

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

composition  and  terms  of reference  as  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual;  and

(f) 

maintain  until  completion  of the Project,  a  Program Management  Support
level  and  in  each  of  the  Selected  Tourism
Team  at  the  national 
Destinations.

The  Borrower  shall provide,  or  cause  to be  provided,  as  the  case  may be,  each  of
the  Steering  Committee,  Technical  Committee,  CPMU,  the  CPIUs,  and  the
Program  Management  Support  Team  (national  and  destination  level)  at  all  times
with  adequate  funds  (allocated  in  the  DIPA  budget)  and  other  resources,
mandate/functions,  and  with  qualified  and  experienced  personnel  in  adequate
numbers,  as shall be necessary to accomplish  Project  objectives  as  further  detailed
in the Project Operational  Manual.

Without  limitation to  the  provision  of paragraphs  1  and 2  of this  Section I.A,  the
Borrower,  through  the  Ministry  of Public  Works  and  Housing,  the  Ministry  of
Tourism and BKPM,  shall recruit  and retain  such consultants  as may be needed to
support  the  functions  of  the  entities  referred  to  in  these  paragraphs,  all  with
composition  and  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  as
further  detailed in the Project  Operational  Manual.

Project Operational Manual

The Borrower,  through  the Ministry of Public  Works  and Housing,  the Ministry of
Tourism  and BKPM,  shall:

(a) 

(ii) 

prepare a  Project  operational  manual  in form and substance  satisfactory to
for
the  Bank,  containing  detailed  arrangements  and  procedures 
implementation  of  the  Project  including,  inter alia: (i)  implementation
arrangements  including  delineation  of role  and  responsibility  of various
entities,  institutions  and  agencies  involved in Project  implementation  and
the  procurement  procedures  and  standard
their  coordination; 
procurement  documentation;  (iii)  disbursement  arrangements,  financial
management  procedures  and  audit  procedures;  (iv)  procedures  for
preparing  and reviewing  a  consolidated  annual  work  plan and  budget  for
each Fiscal Year including Counterpart  Funds;  (v) the Project  performance
indicators  and  monitoring  and  evaluation arrangements;  (vi) arrangement
and  procedures  for  environment  and  social  safeguard  management;  (vii)
for
eligibility  and  selection  criteria,  procedures  and  arrangements 
identifying,  preparing,  appraising  and  implementing  Sub-projects  under
Part  2  of  the  Project;  (viii)  administrative  boundaries  of  the  Selected
Tourism Destinations  and  Selected  Key  Tourism Areas  within them;  and
(ix)  such  other  administrative,  financial,  technical  and  organizational
arrangements  and procedures  as  shall be required for  the Project;

- 10-

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(i)  furnish  to  - and  exchange  views  with  - the  Bank  on  such  manual
promptly  upon  its  preparation;  and  (ii)  thereafter  adopt  such  manual  as
shall have  been approved  by the Bank (Project  Operational Manual);

ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in  accordance  with  the  Project
Operational  Manual;

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provisions  of  the
Project  Operational  Manual  without  the  prior  written  agreement  of the
Borrower  and the  Bank;  and

with the prior written agreement  of the Borrower  and the Bank,  update the
times  ensuring
Project  Operational  Manual,  as  necessary,  at  all 
compliance  thereof with the terms  of this Agreement.

In  the event  of any conflict between  the provisions  of: (a)  the Project  Operational
Manual;  and (b) those  of this Agreement,  the latter  shall prevail.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Safeguards  Instruments,  and,  except  as the Bank  shall otherwise
agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or
permit to be assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or waived,  any of the aforementioned,
or any provision  of any one  thereof.

Wherever  required  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework,  the  Borrower  shall  - for  the  purposes  of a  Sub-project
and  prior  to  the  implementation  thereof - proceed  to  have  an  environmental  and
social  management  plan:

prepared  in  form and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank;

except as otherwise  agreed with the Bank in writing,  submitted to the Bank
for review and approval;  and

thereafter,  adopted  and  locally disclosed.

Wherever  required pursuant to the terms of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy  Framework  and  /  or  the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  the
Borrower  shall  - for  the  purposes  of  a  Sub-project  and  prior  to  implementation
thereof - proceed  to  have a  land acquisition  and resettlement  action  plan and /  or
an indigenous  peoples  plan,  respectively:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

2. 

C. 

1  .

2. 

3. 

- 11  -

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

prepared  in  form and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank;

except as otherwise  agreed with the Bank in writing,  submitted to the Bank
for review  and approval;  and

thereafter,  adopted  and locally disclosed.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  all  land  acquisition  required  for  the  purposes  of
carrying  out  works  under  the  Project  are  financed  exclusively  out  of  its  own
resources,  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as needed,  the resources  needed  for  these
purposes,  including:  (a)  all  land acquisition  required  for  the purposes  of carrying
out the  Project;  (b)  resettlement  and rehabilitation  payments  to  Project  Affected
Persons;  and  (c)  all  other  costs  associated  with  environmental  and/or  social
mitigation  measures  set  forth  in the  Safeguard Instruments.

The Borrower  shall ensure  that all  studies  and technical  assistance to be supported
under the Project are carried  out under  terms of reference  satisfactory to  the Bank,
and  that such  terms  of reference  are  consistent  with,  and  pay due  attention  to, the
Bank's  Safeguards  Policies.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  contract  for  a  Sub-project  includes  the
obligation of the relevant  contractor to implement  the Safeguards  Instruments.

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  11.1  of  this  Schedule  2,  the
Borrower  shall take all measures necessary on its  part to regularly collect, compile,
and  submit to the Bank,  as part of the Project  Reports,  information on the  status of
compliance  with the  Safeguards  Instruments,  giving  details of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

measures  taken in  furtherance  of the  Safeguards  Instruments;

conditions,  if any,  which interfere or threaten  to  interfere  with the smooth
implementation  of the  Safeguards  Instruments;  and

remedial  measures 
conditions.

taken  or  required  to  be  taken  to  address  such

In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  any  of  the  Safeguards
Instruments  and  those of this  Agreement,  the  latter shall  govern.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later than  forty-
five  (45) days  after  the end of each calendar year,  covering  the calendar  year.

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

1  .

- 12-

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

No  later  than  June  30,  2021,  the  Borrower  shall,  in  conjunction  with the  Bank,
carry out  a  mid-term review  of the Project  (the  "Mid-term  Review"),  covering  the
progress  achieved  in the  implementation  of the  Project.  To this end,  the Borrower
shall  prepare  - under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  - and  furnish  to
the  Bank  not  less  than  three  (3)  months  prior  to  the  beginning  of the  Mid-term
Review,  a report  integrating  the results of the Project's  monitoring  and  evaluation
activities,  on the  progress  achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  during  the
the  measures
period  preceding 
recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient  carrying  out  of  the  Project  and  the
achievement  of the  objective  of the Project  during  the period following  such  date.
Following  the Mid-term Review,  the Borrower  shall  act promptly  and diligently  in
order  to  take,  or cause to  be taken,  measures  recommended  to ensure  the efficient
completion  of the  Project  and the  achievement  of the objectives,  as well  as  any
corrective action  deemed necessary  by the Bank to remedy  any shortcoming  noted
in the carrying  out of the Project  in  furtherance  of the objective  of the Project.

the  date  of  such  report,  and  setting  out 

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
consulting  services  required  for the Project  and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section I  of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the Project  and  to
be financed  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below in this  Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III, IV  and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the  case may  be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded on the basis  of International  Competitive Bidding.

- 13  -

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those  contracts  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Limited  International
Bidding;  (b)  National Competitive Bidding,  subject to the additional provisions  set
forth  in  the  Annex  to  this  Schedule  2;  (c)  Shopping;  (d)  Direct  Contracting;  (e)
Force  Account;  and  (g)
Procurement 
Community  Participation  procedures  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

from  United  Nations  Agencies; 

(f) 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the
basis  of Quality and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts which  are specified in the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Budget; 
Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms;  (f)  Single-source
procedures  for the  Selection of Individual Consultant;  and (g)  Procedures  set  forth
in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultant.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those contracts  which  shall be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General.

Without  limitation upon the provisions  of Article  II  of the  General Conditions  and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  and (b) repay the Preparation  Advance;  in the amount allocated and,
if applicable,  up to the percentage set  forth against each Category of the  following
table:

-14-

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

(1)  Goods,  works,  Operating  Costs, 
Training,  non-consulting  services,
and  consulting 
the
Project
(2)  Refund  of 
Advance 

the  Preparation 

services 

for 

296,000,000 

4,000,000 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

300,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period.

Percentage  of
Expenditures to
be  financed
(inclusive  of
Taxes)
100%

Amount 
payable
pursuant  to  Section
2.07 
the
General  Conditions

(a)  of 

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A above,  no withdrawal  shall  be  made  for
payments  made prior  to the  Signature Date.

2. 

The  Closing  Date is  December  31,  2023.

- 15-

ANNEX  TO SCHEDULE  2

National  Competitive  Bidding:  Modifications  to Procedures

The procedures  applicable to the procurement  of goods, works,  and non-consulting  services
under  contracts  awarded  on the basis  of National Competitive  Bidding shall be those of the
Pelelangan  Umum 
(Public  Tendering)  and  Pemilihan  Langsung  /  Pelelangan
Sederhana (Simplified  Tendering)  methods  as  set  forth  in  the  Borrower's  Presidential
Regulation  No.  54/2010  and  its  subsequent  amendments  as  of January  16,  2015,  with the
modifications  set  out  below  in  order  to  ensure  economy,  efficiency,  transparency,  and
broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines,  pursuant
to  paragraph  3.3  of said  Guidelines.  The  Pemilihan Langsung /  Pelelangan Sederhana
method  shall  apply  to  such  procurement  up  to  the  financial  thresholds  specified  in  said
Regulation. 
In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  Borrower's  procedures  and  these
modifications,  the  latter shall  govern.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Procuring  entities  shall use the appropriate  standard bidding documents  acceptable
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank.  The  provisions  of  Section  1.16  (Fraud  and
Corruption)  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  shall  apply,  and  each  bidding
document  and  contract  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  include
provisions  on  matters  pertaining 
in
paragraph  1.16(a)  of  said  Guidelines  and  the  contract  provisions  set  out  in
paragraph  1.16(e)  of said Guidelines.

fraud  and  corruption  as  defined 

to 

Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  precluded  from  bidding.  If a  registration  process  is
required,  a  foreign  firm  determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder
shall  be  given  reasonable  time  for  registration.  Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be
required  to  form a joint  venture  or sub-contract  part  of the supply  of goods,  non-
consulting  services,  and  works  as  a  condition  for  submitting  bids  or  the  award  of
the  contract.  Bidding  documents  shall  be  made  available  to  all  international
bidders.

No preference  of any kind  shall be given to any bidders.

Under  the Pelelangan Umum method,  bidders  shall be allowed at least  twenty-one
(21)  days  from the date  of the  invitation to bid or the date  of availability of bidding
documents,  whichever  is  later,  to prepare  and  submit bids;  this  period  shall be  ten
(10)  days  under  the Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana method.

Bids  invited  under  the  Pelelangan Umum  method  shall  be  submitted  in  one  (1)
envelope  and evaluated  using  post-qualification.

No  bidder shall be  rejected  merely  on the  basis  of a  comparison  with  the owner's
estimate and budget  ceiling  without the  Bank's  prior written  concurrence.

-16-

7. 

8. 

9. 

Bid security,  if it is  required by the bidding documents,  at the bidder's option,  shall
be  in  the  form  of a  letter  of credit  or  guarantee  from  a  reputable  bank  or  other
reputable  financial 
institution  and  shall  without  exception  follow  the  form
provided  for this  purpose in  the bidding documents.

All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  Bank's  prior
written  concurrence.

Government-owned  enterprises  in  Indonesia  shall  be  eligible  to  participate,
provided that  they comply  with  paragraph  1.10(b)  of the Procurement  Guidelines.

- 17-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table sets  forth the Principal  Payment  Dates  of the Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Principal Payment Date 

15  January 2025 
15  July 2025 
15  January 2026 
15  July  2026 
15  January  2027 
15  July 2027 
15  January  2028 
15  July 2028 
15  January  2029 
15  July 2029 
15  January 2030 
15  July 2030 
15  January 2031 
15  July 2031 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)
6.58
6.66
6.75
6.83
6.92
7.00
7.09
7.18
7.27
7.36
7.45
7.54
7.64
7.73

- 18 -

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means,  for purposes of paragraph  5 of the Appendix
to  the General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and
Grants",  dated October  15,  2006 and revised  in January  2011.

"Bank's  Safeguards  Policies"  means  the  operational  policies  and  procedures  for
financing  of development  projects by  the Bank at  the date  of this  Agreement  and
relating  to  Environmental  Assessment,  Natural  Habitats,  Pest  Management,
Indigenous  Peoples,  Physical  Cultural  Resources,  Involuntary  Resettlement,
Forests,  Safety  of Dams,  Projects  on  International  Waterways,  and  Projects  in
Disputed  Areas,  as  published  under  http://policies.worldbank.org'  to  the  extent
they are  applicable  to the Project.

"BAPPENAS" means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional or the national
development  planning agency  of the Borrower,  or any  successor  thereto.

"Biosphere  Reserve"  means  areas  of terrestrial  and  coastal/marine  ecosystems,  or
a  combination thereof,  which are internationally recognized  within  the framework
of the Man and the Biosphere Programme.

"Bupati" means  a regent,  an executive  head of a  Kabupaten.

"Category"  means  a  category set  forth  in the table  in  Section  IV.A of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement.

"Central  Project  Implementation  Unit" or "CPIU"  means any  of the units referred
to  in  Section  I.A.1(e)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  the  terms  "Central
Project  Implementation  Units" or "CPIUs"  means  all  such units.

"Central  Project  Management  Unit"  or  "CPMU"  means  the  unit  referred  to  in
Section  I.A. 1(d)  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

"Chance  Finds  Procedures"  means  the  preservation  and  proper  management
procedures  which  need  to  be  followed  - as  per  requirements  of  OP/BP  4.11
Physical  Cultural Resources  - when  objects,  sites, structures,  groups  of structures,
and  natural  features  and  landscapes  (that  have  archaeological,  paleontological,
historical,  architectural,  religious,  aesthetic,  or  other  cultural  significance)  are
encountered  unexpectedly  during  project implementation.

-19-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Counterpart  Funds" means  a  minimum  amount  of funds  required  for  the Project,
estimated  at USD  471  million equivalent,  to be provided  by the Borrower,  through
an  allocation to  the budget  in each  year.

"DIPA"  means  daftar  isian  pelaksanaan  anggaran,  a  government  budget
document  setting  forth the budget  activity  list  for  a Fiscal Year.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
environmental  and  social  safeguards  management  framework  dated  19  January
2018  and adopted  by the  Borrower  and  publicly disclosed  on the  Bank's  external
website  (documents  & reports)  on  26  January  2018,  such  framework  setting  out
the principles,  rules,  guidelines  and  procedures  to assess  environmental  and social
impacts of the activities to be undertaken under the Project,  and measures  and plans
to  reduce,  avoid,  mitigate  and/or  offset  adverse social  and  environmental  impacts
and  enhance  positive  impacts  of said activities,  as the  same may  be updated  from
time  to  time  in  agreement  with  the  Bank,  such  framework  incorporating  among
others  LARPF,  IPPF,  Physical  and  Cultural  Resources  Management  Framework
and Chance  Finds Procedures  and Process  Framework.

"Environmental  and Social Management  Plan" means an environmental  and social
management  plan,  acceptable  to  the Bank and  consistent  with  the  Environmental
and Social Management  Framework adopted  for the purposes of a Sub-project,  and
giving details  of the agreed  actions  and policies  designed  to maximize  the benefits
of  the  Sub-project,  eliminate  or  offset  any  adverse  environmental  and  social
impacts,  or reduce  such impacts  to acceptable levels,  along with the procedural and
institutional  measures  needed  to  implement  such  actions  and  policies,  and
"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plans"  means,  collectively,  all  such
plans.

"Fiscal Year"  means the Borrower's  fiscal year commencing  January  1  and ending
December  31  of the same year.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated  July  14,  2017,  with  the modifications  set  forth  in  Section  II  of
this  Appendix.

"Global  Geopark"  means  a  single,  unified  geographical  area  where  sites  and
landscapes  of  international  geological  significance  are  managed  with  a  holistic
concept  of protection,  education  and sustainable  development,  designated as  such
pursuant  to UNESCO's  statutes  and  operational  guidelines  for  global  geoparks.

- 20  -

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"Indigenous  Peoples"  means  those  social  groups  in  the  Borrower's  territory that
have  a  distinct,  vulnerable,  social  and  cultural  identity,  and  that  possess  the
following  characteristics  in varying  degrees:  (a)  self-identification  as  members  of
a  distinct  indigenous  cultural  group and  recognition  of this  identity by  others;  (b)
collective  attachment  to  geographically  distinct  habitats  or ancestral  territories  in
the  Project  area  and  to  the  natural  resources  in  these  habitats  and  territories;  (c)
customary cultural,  economic,  social, or political institutions that are separate from
those of the dominant  society and  culture;  and  (d)  an  indigenous  language.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Plan"  means  a  plan  for  a  Sub-project,  meeting 
the
requirements  of the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  that  sets  out  the
agreed  measures  to:  (a)  involve  Indigenous  Peoples,  through  a  process  of  free,
prior  and  informed  consultation,  in  the  design  and  implementation  of the  Sub-
project  in  locations  in  which  such  people  reside  or  make  their  living;  (b)  ensure
that  Indigenous  Peoples  affected by  the  Sub-project receive  culturally  appropriate
social and economic  benefits;  and (c) when potential adverse effects  on Indigenous
Peoples  are identified,  those adverse effects  are  avoided,  minimized,  mitigated,  or
compensated  for, 
in  each  case  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower,  and "Indigenous  Peoples  Plans"  means,  collectively,  all such plans.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or  "IPPF"  means  the  indigenous
peoples  planning  framework  incorporated  in  the  ESMF,  giving  details  of  a
program  of actions,  measures  and policies  designed  to  facilitate  a  process of free,
prior  and  informed  consultation  involving  Indigenous  Peoples  in  the  design  and
implementation  of every  Sub-project  - where  it  is  applicable  - and  to  ensure  that
such  Indigenous  Peoples  derive benefits  from  the  Sub-project  which  are  socially,
economically  and  culturally  appropriate,  and  gender  and  inter-generationally
inclusive.

"Indonesia  Investment  Coordinating  Board"  or  "BKPM"  means  the  Borrower's
ministry  responsible  for boosting  domestic  and  foreign  direct  investment  through
creating  a  conducive  investment  climate  and any  successor  thereto.

22. 

"Kabupaten"  means  a regency,  an administrative  division of a Province.

"Kabupaten/Kota  Task  Force"  means  the  local  government-level  task  force
established under a decree of a Bupati or mayor,  as applicable,  in  each Participating
Kabupaten or  Participating  Kota,  or any  successor  thereto.

"Kota"  means a  city,  an  administrative  division  of a Province.

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan"  means  a  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  action  plan  for  a  Sub-project  - acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower  prepared  pursuant  to  the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy

- 21  -

- giving  details  of  the  agreed  provisions 

Framework 
for  compensation,
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Project Affected  Persons, along with the
procedural and institutional  measures needed to  implement such agreed provisions.

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "LARPF"  means  the
land  acquisition  and  resettlement  policy  framework  for  the  Project,  acceptable  to
the  Bank  - setting  forth  the  measures  and  actions 
to  be  taken  during  the
implementation  of the Project  for the provision  of compensation, rehabilitation  and
resettlement  assistance  to  Project  Affected  Persons  - and  disclosed  on the  Bank's
external  website  (documents  &  reports)  on  January  19,  2018  (Report  No.
SFG4034).

"Man  and  the  Biosphere  Programme"  means  UNESCO's  intergovernmental
scientific program  launched in  1971  that aims  to  establish a  scientific basis  for the
improvement  of relationships  between people and  their environments.

"Ministry  of Finance"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for  finance  or
any successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Public  Works  and  Housing"  or  "MPWH"  means  the  Borrower's
ministry  responsible  for  public  works  or any successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Tourism"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry responsible  for  tourism or
any  successor  thereto.

incurred  by 

the  Borrower 

utilities,  bank  charges, 

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  incremental  operating  costs  under  the
Project, 
for  purposes  of  Project  management,
implementation  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,  including  office  supplies  and
consumables, 
information  and
communication  campaigns,  mass  media  and  printing  services,  vehicle  rental,
operation,  maintenance  and  insurance,  office space rental,  building and equipment
maintenance, 
lodging  and  subsistence  allowances,  and  salaries  of
contractual  and  temporary  staff,  but  excluding  salary  and  salary  supplements  of
staff of the Borrower's  civil service.

communications, 

travel, 

"Participating  Kabupaten"  means a  Kabupaten meeting  the eligibility requirements
set out  in the Project Operational  Manual and  selected  to participate  in the Project.

"Participating  Kota" means  a  Kota  meeting  the eligibility  requirements  set  out  in
the Project  Operational  Manual  and selected  to participate in  the Project.

"Participating  Province" means  a Province  meeting  the eligibility  requirements  set
out  in the Project  Operational  Manual  and  selected  to participate  in the Project.

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

- 22  -

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

and  Cultural  Resources  Management  Framework"  means 

"Physical 
the
preservation  and  proper  management  when  an  investment  may  affect  physical
cultural  resources,  i.e.,  resources  of  archeological,  paleontological,  historical,
architectural,  and  religious  (including  graveyards  and  burial  sites),  aesthetic  or
other  cultural  significance,  as  per requirement  of  Bank  OP/BP4.1 1  Physical
Cultural  Resources.

"Physical  and  Cultural  Resources  Management  Plan"  means  the plan  prepared  in
accordance  with  the  ESMF  containing  measures  for  avoiding  or  mitigating  any
adverse  impacts  on physical  cultural  resources,  provisions  for  managing  chance
finds,  any  necessary  measures  for  strengthening  institutional  capacity,  and  a
monitoring  system  to  track  the  progress  of  these  activities,  and  "Physical  and
Cultural  Resources  Management  Plans"  means,  collectively,  all  such plans.

"Preparation  Advance"  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  Section  2.07  (a)  of the
General  Conditions,  granted  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  letter
agreement  signed on  behalf of the Bank  on November  7,  2017  and on behalf of the
Borrower  on November  21, 2017.

"Process  Framework"  means  a  framework  document  addressing  how  Project
Affected  Persons  - designated  as  such  by virtue of their  involuntary restriction of
access  to legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas on  account  of the  Project  -
may participate  in  the determination  of the  nature of the said  restrictions,  as  well
as  the  type  of measures  necessary  to  mitigate  adverse  impacts  caused  by  these
restrictions.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrowers"  dated  January 2011  (revised July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the Borrower's procurement  plan  for the Project,  dated
February  13,  2018 and referred to in paragraph  1.18 of the Procurement  Guidelines
and paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the same shall be updated  from
time to time  in accordance  with  the provisions of said paragraphs.

"Program  Management  Support  Team"  means  the  team  referred  to  in  Section
I.A. 1(f)  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

"Project  Affected  Person"  means a  person who,  on account  of the execution  of the
Project,  has  experienced  or  would experience  direct  economic  and social  impacts
caused  by:  (a)  the involuntary  taking of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or
means  of livelihood, whether  or not  such person must move to another  location; or
(b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally  designated parks  and  protected

- 23  -

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

areas,  resulting  in adverse  impacts  on  the livelihood  of such person,  and  "Project
Affected  Persons" means,  collectively,  all  such Project  Affected  Persons.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means the manual  referred  to in  Section  I.B.1(b) (ii)
of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may be  amended  from  time  to  time
in agreement  with  the  Bank,  and  such  term includes  any  schedules  to  the Project
Operational  Manual.

"Province"  means  an administrative  sub-division of the Borrower's  territory at the
first  level below  the national  level.

"Provincial  Task  Force"  means  the  provincial  government-level 
task  force,
established  under a  decree  of a  relevant  governor  in  each  Participating  Province.

"Regional  Infrastructure  Development  Agency",  or "RIDA"  means  the agency  of
the Ministry  of Public Works  and  Housing (as  hereinafter  defined)  responsible  for
regional  infrastructure  development,  or  a  successor  thereto.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework,  any  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plans,  the
Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  any Indigenous  Peoples  Plans,  the Land
Acquisition and Resettlement  Policy Framework,  the Process  Framework,  and any
Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plans,  the  Physical  and  Cultural
Resources  Management  Framework,  Chance  Finds  Procedures,  the Physical  and
Cultural  Resources  Management  Plans  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or
schedules  to such  instruments.

"Selected  Tourism  Destination"  means  any  specific  geographic  area  in  the
Borrower's  territory  namely:  the  island  of  Lombok;  the  area  in  and  around  the
World Heritage  sites  of Borobudur  and Prambanan,  as well  as the Province  of DI
Yogyakarta;  and  the area  in  and  surrounding  Lake  Toba  - including  in  each  case
one  or several  clusters  of key  tourism  attractions,  infrastructure  and  facilities  and
the wider area  through  which  they are connected  - which  is  included  in the Project
and  whose  boundaries  are  delineated  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual  and  the
term "Selected  Tourism  Destinations" means  all  such destinations.

"Selected  Key  Tourism  Area"  means  a  specific  geographic  area  within a  Selected
Tourism  Destination  in which  key  tourism attractions,  infrastructure  and  facilities
are  concentrated  - which  is  included  in  the  Project  and  whose  boundaries  are
delineated  in the Project Operational  Manual and the  term "Selected  Key Tourism
Areas" means  all  such  areas.

- 24 -

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

"Signature  Date"  means  the  later of the  two dates  on which  the Borrower  and  the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such  definition  applies  to  all references  to  "the
date of the Loan  Agreement"  in the  General  Conditions.

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  inter-agency  committee  referred  to  in  Section
I.A. 1(a)  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Sub-project"  means  a  set  of activities  under  Part  2  of the  Project,  in  each  case
selected  pursuant  to  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual,  which, 
infrastructure  that  are  not
predominantly  tourism  related  and  "Sub-projects"  means  more  than  one  Sub-
project.

inter  alia,  exclude  large  scale 

"Technical  Committee"  means  the  committee  referred  to  Section  I.A.1(b)  of
Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of training  activities  under  the  Project,
approved  in  advance  by  the  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,  workshops,  and
domestic  and  overseas  training,  along  with  travel  and  subsistence allowances  for
training  participants,  services  of trainers,  rental  of training  facilities,  preparation
and  reproduction  of training  materials,  interpretation  and  translation,  and  other
activities  directly related  to course preparation  and  implementation.

"World  Heritage"  means  items  of  cultural  or  natural  heritage  with  outstanding
universal  value  as  so  established  pursuant  to  the  Convention  Concerning  the
Protection  of the  World  Cultural  and  Natural  Heritage  adopted  - by  the  general
conference  of United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization
(UNESCO)  - on November  16,  1972 and entered  into force  on December  17,  1975.

Section II. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are hereby modified as  follows:

1. 
Article V  is  renumbered  accordingly.

Section  5.13  (Procurement)  is  deleted  in  its  entirety  and  the remaining  section  in

2. 
Paragraphs  84  (Procurement  Plan)  and  85  (Procurement  Regulations)  in  the
Appendix  are  deleted  in  their  entirety  and  the  subsequent  paragraphs  are  renumbered
accordingly.

