OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  9014-BY

Loan Agreement

(Sustainable  Energy  Scale-Up  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF  BELARUS

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  REPUBLIC  OF
BELARUS  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I-GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply to
and form  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires  otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them in  the General  Conditions  or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II-LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of  ninety  million  Euro
(EUR 90,000,000),  as  such amount  may be converted from  time to time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  1  to this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section III  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for
purposes  of taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be  taken pursuant  to  this
Section  is  the  Chair  of the  State  Committee  for  Standardization  or  any  person
delegated  by  such officer in  writing.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee is  one quarter  of one percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  is  one quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the

Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest rate is  the Reference  Rate plus  the Variable  Spread  or such rate as may
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject 
to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment  Dates are  May  15  and November  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The principal  amount of the Loan  shall be repaid  in accordance  with Schedule  3  to
this Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE III-PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out the  Project in accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article V  of the General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV-REMEDIES  OF  THE  BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that
Regulation  No.  1311  of  the  Borrower's  Council  of  Ministers,  dated
October 3,  1997,  which established the PMU has been amended, suspended,
abrogated,  repealed,  waived or not enforced,  in such a manner so as to affect
materially  and  adversely,  in the  opinion  of the  Bank,  the  PMU's  ability to
carry out the Project.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and is  continuing  for  a
period  of 60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

4.03.  The  Co-financing  Deadline  for  the  effectiveness  of the  GEF Grant  Agreement  is

April  30,  2020.

ARTICLE  V-EFFECTIVENESS

5.01.  The  Additional Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

The  Co-financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all
conditions  precedent to  its effectiveness  or to the right of the Borrower to
make  withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness  of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.

(b) 

The POM  has been  adopted by  the Borrower  on a  manner satisfactory  to
the Bank.

5.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after
the Signature  Date.

-3-

ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

Except  as  provided  under  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower's
Representative  is  the Deputy Prime Minister or any successor  thereto.

6.02. 

For  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of  the  General  Conditions:  (a)  the  Borrower's
address is:

Council of Ministers
House  of Government
Minsk, 220010
Sovetskaya  Str.  11
Republic  of Belarus;  and

(b)  the Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile: 
375  17  2226665 

E-mail:
contact@government.by

6.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:  (a) the Bank's  address
is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b)  the Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391 

akremer@worldbank.org

-4-

AGREED  as of the Signature  Date.

REPUBLIC  OF  BELARUS

itoiedRl 

opre&e.ntative

Name:  Vblen-Z /7Z2In  1by

Title: 

(/Oln 

£o./& 

Zc71

Date: 

k1OVen1  be r  2ff,  2CYY-

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DE 

L  PMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

OVn 

2& 

7 

/9eler

Title:  etW/7tZ(  e/aU

Date: 

/7e( 

2,P, 

/
-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the Project  is to  scale  up efficient  energy  use  in  space heating  of
multi-apartment  buildings  and renewable  wood  biomass  utilization for heating  in  selected
localities  in  Belarus.

The  Project  consists  of the following parts:

Part 1:  Renewable  Wood  Biomass  Heating

Support  fuel-switching and efficiency  improvement of heating systems  in selected
localities  in  all  oblasts  in  the  Borrower's  territory  through  biomass  heating  investments:
including,  inter alia, carrying  of works  for construction  and rehabilitation  of boiler plants,
installation  of new  wood-biomass-fired  boilers,  installation  of new  peak  gas-fired  boilers
or rehabilitation  of existing  ones,  as needed,  modernization  of heat  networks,  installation
of  individual  heat  substations  and  operational  monitoring  and  control  systems,  and
development  of local  sites  for wood fuel preparation.

Part 2:  Thermal renovation  of multi-apartment buildings  (MABs)

Support the  implementation  of the Borrower's  program  for  thermal renovation  of

MABs  in the Selected  Oblasts, through:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Package  A:  carrying  out  of thermal  renovation  projects  (TRPs)  including
installation  of  building-level  substations  or  mixing  loops,  thermostatic
radiator  valves  (TRVs)  and  necessary  piping  retrofit  in  individual
apartments,  upgrading of entrance  doors and staircase windows,  and other
associated  low-cost measures  agreed with  the Bank.

Package  B:  carrying  out  of TRPs  including  all  measures  financed  under
(a)  above  as  well  as  upgrading  of individual  apartment  windows  (if not
already upgraded),  mandatory  thermal insulation  for  roofs, exterior  walls,
and basements.

for 

the 

installation  of  heat  cost  allocators 

(HCAs)  and
Grants 
implementation  of apartment-level  consumption-based billing included  in
either  package  under  (a)  or  (b)  above  as  an  option  for  beneficiaries  in
selected  locations  agreed with the Bank.

Piloting  a partially  repayable  grant  scheme  and support  the roll  out  of the
Borrower's  thermal renovation  program.

-6-

Part 3:  Technical  Assistance  and Implementation  Support

Provision  of technical  assistance  for  market  development,  communications  and

capacity  building,  and support  for overall  project  implementation,  through:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Development  of a  wood  biomass  fuel  market:  including  carrying  out  of
analytical  work  and  provision  of  technical  assistance  for  developing
national regulation on  energy-content-based  wood biomass  pricing.

renovation  market 

Thermal 
implementation  of  communications 
homeowners,  capacity  building 
renovation  market participants  and stakeholders.

development: 

and  outreach  programs 

for  government  agencies, 

development 

and
to
thermal

reporting  and
Development  and 
verification  (MRV)  system  for  Green  House  Gas  (GHG)  emissions
reduction in  space  heating as  a result  of thermal  renovation.

implementation  of  a  monitoring, 

Support  Project  management,  monitoring  and  reporting, 
including
through:  (i)  training  for  PMU  and  PIU  staff;  (ii)  consulting  services  for
Project  supervision  and  for  fulfilling  fiduciary  duties  including  carrying
out  of audits;  and  (iii) Operating  Costs  for PMU  and PIUs.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  EED,  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
Project  Operations  Manual  (hereinafter,  the  "POM").  Except  as  the  Bank  shall
otherwise agree,  the Borrower  shall not assign,  amend, abrogate or waive  the POM
or any  of its  provisions  thereof.

At all times  during  Project implementation,  the  Borrower shall  ensure  that the PMU
is  maintained  with  qualified  staff in  sufficient  numbers,  adequate  funds,  facilities,
services  and  other  resources  for  the  Project  implementation  (including  financial
management,  procurement  and safeguards  aspects)  all satisfactory  to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  a  Project
coordinator  in  each  of the  Participating  District Heating  Companies  (DHC)  who
shall  serve  as  a focal  point  and be  responsible  for the day-to-day  operation  of the
Project in cooperation  with  the PMU.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project implementation,  for purposes  of
implementation  of Part  2  of the  Project:  (a)  a  PIU  in each  of the Selected  Oblasts
to  coordinate  the activities  thereunder  at  the  Selected  Oblast  level;  (b)  the  MCA
with  direct  responsibility  for  implementing  the  activities  thereunder  in  its
respective  municipality;  and (c)  the OE in  charge of reviewing and  approving  the
technical  aspects of TRPs under  such Part  of the Project.

The Borrower  shall  ensure  that Part 2 of the Project  is  implemented  by the PMU  and
the  PIUs  of the  Selected  Oblasts in  collaboration  with  the MCAs of the municipalities
where  TRPs  shall  be  undertaken,  including  the  obligation  of each  MCA to  supervise
the respective TRP  under the oversight of the PMU  and support  of the relevant  PIU.

B. 

Thermal Renovation  Projects  and Partially Repayable  Grant Scheme

The Borrower  shall establish a program for thermal  renovation  of MABs consisting  of:

1. 

Thermal  Renovation  Projects (TRPs)

The Borrower  shall renovate  eligible  MABs that comply with  criteria  described in
the POM by  carrying  out  TRPs in  eligible MABs.  Such criteria  to  include:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

-8-

a TRP  shall be eligible for financing subject  to:  (i)  approval of its renovation
scope and  investment  amount  by at least two-thirds  of the  homeowners  and
commercial  businesses,  as  applicable,  of the  candidate  MAB;  (ii)  approval
of  its  technical  designs  by  the  authorized  Oblast  Expertise  prior  to  the
contracting  of any civil  works  for  any such  TRP;  and  (iii)  obtaining  of all
official  certifications  required under  the Borrower's  legislation;  and

during Project  implementation,  the energy  savings  of renovated MABs  be
assessed  after  a  full  heating  season  by  a  qualified  expert,  including  a
company,  selected  in accordance  with criteria  described  in the POM.

2. 

Partially  Repayable  Grant  Scheme

The  Borrower  shall  implement  a  repayment  mechanism  in  installments  of the  TRPs
through which homeowners  and commercial businesses  as applicable, of the renovated
MABs shall  repay their share  of the investment cost incurred by  the Borrower to  carry
out the TRP.  Such scheme,  which is described  in the POM, to  include:

the  investment  cost  incurred  by  the  Borrower  for  the  carrying  out  of the
TRPs  described under  Part  2  (a)  or  (b)  of the Project,  as  the case  may be;

the portion  of the investment  cost  of the TRPs  to  be repayable;  and

terms  and conditions  of the repayment  mechanism.

Safeguards

The Borrower  shall  (a)  carry  out the Project  in accordance  with the provisions  of
the Safeguards  Instruments; and (b)  ensure  that any contracts  for civil works  under
the  Project  incorporate  the  pertinent  requirements  of Safeguard  Instruments  and
include  codes  of conduct  in form  and substance  acceptable  to  the Bank,  detailing,
inter alia, measures  that need  to be undertaken  by  contractor  and sub-contractors
on environmental,  health and safety.

Except  as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, the  Borrower  shall ensure,  and cause
to ensure, that none of the provisions of the Safeguard Instruments  is abrogated,
amended,  repealed,  suspended  or  waived.  In  case  of  any  inconsistencies
between the provisions  of any of the  Safeguard Instruments  and the provisions
of this Agreement,  the provisions  of this  Agreement  shall prevail.

For purposes  of the Project,  the Borrower shall:  (a)  ensure  that the selection of any
investment  under  the  Project  is  done  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
ESMF  and  ESIA;  (b)  ensure  the  complete  implementation  of the  site-specific
ESMP(s)  in a manner acceptable  to the Bank,  including  all necessary  measures to
minimize  and  to  mitigate  any  adverse  environmental  impacts  caused  by  the

C. 

1  .

2. 

3. 

-9-

implementation  of the investments  under the  Project;  and (c)  maintain  the PMU,
PIUs  and  DHCs  with  competent  environmental  specialists  in  adequate  numbers
and with  such responsibilities  and functions  acceptable to the Bank as  shall  enable
the  PMU,  the  PIUs  and  the  DHCs  to  manage,  coordinate  and  monitor  the
implementation  of the site-specific  ESMP(s)for  the Project.

4. 

Prior to  the commencement  of works  under any investment  for each proposed site,
the  Borrower,  through  the  PMU  and  the  respective  PIU  and  DHC,  shall  ensure
that:  (a)  the  related  ESMP(s)  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF  and
ESIA;(b)  the proposed design  and site for said  works  incorporate  the provisions  of
the  ESMPs;  (c)  the  provisions  of  said  ESMPs  are  adequately  included  in  the
proposed contract for said  works; and (d)  such works  are carried  out in  accordance
with  the respective  site-specific  ESMPs.

5. 

The  Borrower  shall, throughout  the period of Project implementation:

(a) 

take  all measures  necessary  on  its  part  to  collect,  compile,  and  furnish to
the  Bank  through  Project  Reports,  and  promptly  in  a  separate  report  or
reports,  if  so  requested  by  the  Bank,  information  on  the  status  of
compliance  with  the Safeguard  Instruments,  all  such reports  in  form  and
substance acceptable  to the Bank,  setting  out,  among  other  things:  (i)  the
status of implementation  of the  Safeguard  Instruments;  (ii)  conditions,  if
any, which interfere or threaten to interfere  with the implementation of the
Safeguard  Instruments;  and (iii)  corrective and preventive  measures  taken
or required  to be taken  to  address  such conditions;  and

(b) 

promptly  notify the  Bank of any incident or  accident  related to  or having an
impact on  the  Project,  which has,  or  is  likely  to  have,  a  significant  adverse
effect on the environment,  the affected  communities,  the public or  workers.

6. 

7. 

The Borrower shall  ensure that all technical  assistance  under the Project  shall  only
be  undertaken  pursuant  to  terms  of reference  reviewed  and  found  satisfactory  by
the Bank, such  terms  of reference  to  ensure  that the technical  assistance takes  into
account,  and  calls  for,  application of the  Bank's  Safeguard  Policies.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  and
publicize  the  availability  of a  grievance  redress  mechanism,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to the  Bank,  to hear  and  determine fairly  and  in  good faith  all complaints
raised  in  relation  to  the  Project,  and  take  all  measures  necessary  to  implement  the
determinations made by such mechanism,  in particular related to the implementation  of
activities  under Part 2  of the Project,  in a manner satisfactory  to the Bank.

- 10  -

Section  II. 

Project  Monitorin2, Reporting  and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later  than  one

month  after the end of each  calendar  semester,  covering  the calendar  semester.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

A. 

General

Without limitation upon  the provisions  of Article  II  of the General  Conditions and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the  Borrower
may withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible  Expenditures;  and (b) pay:
(i)  the Front-end  Fee;  and (ii)  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  premium;  in
the amount allocated  and,  if applicable,  up to the percentage  set forth against each  Category
of the following  table:

- 11 -

Amount  of the Loan 
allocated  (expressed 
in EUR) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
Financed
(inclusive  of taxes)

87,925,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods, Works,  non-consulting
services,  consulting services, 
Training  and Operating  Costs for
the Project  except  for Part  2  (c)
and Part  3 of the Project

(2)  Goods,  non-consulting  services,
consulting  services  and Training
under  Part  3(a)  of the Project

(3)  Goods,  non-consulting  services,
consulting  services  and Training
under  Part  3(b)  of the  Project

(4)  Goods,  non-consulting  services,

consulting  services,  Training and 
Operating Costs under  part 3(d)  of
the Project

1,665,000 

93%

(5)  Front  end fee 

225,000 

(6)  Interest  Cap  or Interest  Rate 

0 

Collar Premium 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

90,000,000

Amount payable
pursuant  to  Section
2.03  of the Agreement
in  accordance  with
Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount due pursuant
to  Section 4.05  (c)  of
the General
Conditions

- 12  -

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  above,  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made  for
payments  made  prior to the Signature  Date.

2. 

The  Closing Date  is  April  30,  2025.

Section  IV. 

Other Undertakings

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that,  upon  Project  completion,  the  energy  savings  of
renovated  MABs  continue  to be assessed  after a  full  heating  season of the  Borrower by  a
qualified expert,  including  a company,  selected in accordance  with criteria described in the
POM.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization  Repayment  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").

Level  Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share

On each May  15  and November  15

Beginning  November  15,  2024 
through November  15,  2038

On May  15,  2039 

3.33%

3.43%

- 14  -

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines" means,  for purposes  of paragraph  5 of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed  by IBRD Loans  and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011  and  as of July  1,  2016.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in the  table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement.

"Co-financier"  means  the European  Investment  Bank.

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  16  of  the  Appendix  to  the
General  Conditions,  an amount  equivalent  to  90  million  Euro  to  be  provided  by
the Co-financier  to  assist in financing  the Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the
Borrower  and the  Co-financier providing  for the Co-financing.

"District  Heating  Company"  or  "DHC"  means  the  Borrower's  district  heating
company  for  the purpose  of providing  heating  and  other utility  services  to  public
and  commercial  housing  in  the  Borrower's  territory  for  which  the  sites  were
selected  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and  procedures  defined  in  the  POM  and
DHCs means,  collectively,  all  such DHC,  and any successor  thereto.

"Energy  Efficiency  Department"  or  "EED"  means 
the  Borrower's  State
Committee  of Standardization  established  pursuant  to a Decree  of the President of
the Borrower  No.  289,  dated  May  5,  2006  and  a  Resolution  No.  981,  dated  July
31,  2006  of the Council  of Ministers  of the Borrower,  or  any successor thereto.

"Environmental  and  Social 
the
assessment,  to  be  prepared  by  the  Borrower,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be
disclosed  on the  Bank's  website  as  said  instrument  may be updated  from  time  to
time  with  the prior written agreement  of the Bank.

Impact  Assessment"  and  "ESIA"  means 

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
framework  for  the Project prepared  by  the Borrower,  and disclosed  on  the  EED's
website  on  April  2,  2019  and  on  the  Bank's  website  on  April  2,  2019  which sets
forth,  inter alia, the modalities  for site-specific environmental  and social  screening,
including:  (a)  guidelines  for the identification  of existing environmental  and social
conditions  and potential direct  and indirect  environmental  and  social impacts  and
risks resulting from  the carrying  out  of the Project;  (b)  guidelines  for the carrying
out of environmental  and social  assessments  and the preparation  of environmental
and  social  management  plans  (ESMPs),  when  applicable;  (c)  recommendation  of

- 15  -

mitigation  measures  for  each  negative  impact  identified;  (d)  measures  for
enhancing  each  identified  positive  impact;  and  (e)  guidelines  for the  preparation
of environmental  and  social  monitoring  plans  for  tracking  the  application  of  the
mitigation  measures,  as  said  framework  may be  amended  from  time  to time  with
the Bank's  prior approval.

"Environmental  and Social  Management  Plan(s)"  or "ESMPs"  means  site-specific
environmental  social  management  plans,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  comprising
environmental  mitigation plans and environmental  monitoring plans to be prepared
and adopted by  the Borrower pursuant  to the ESMF,  wherein are  set  forth specific
details of measures  to manage identified  or potential environmental  and social risks
and  to  mitigate,  reduce  and/or  offset  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts
associated  with  the implementation  of activities  under  the  Project,  together  with
an  environmental  and  social  baseline  for  each  site,  details  of  the  relevant
environmental  legislative  framework,  adequate 
institutional,  monitoring  and
reporting arrangements  capable of ensuring proper implementation  of, and regular
feedback  on  compliance  with  each  ESMP,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  and
supplemented  from time  to time  with the Bank's  prior written  approval.

"GEF  Grant Agreement"  means  the  agreement  of same  date  hereof between  the
Borrower and the Bank, acting as  Implementing  Agency of the GEF, providing for
the  GEF  Co-financing  for  an  amount  of three  million  six  hundred  fifty-three
thousand  Dollars (USD  3,653,000).

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated December  14,  2018.

"MAB"  means  multi-apartment  building and the  term MABs  means,  collectively,
all such MAB.

"Municipal  Contracting  Authority"  and  "MCA"  means  the  Borrower's  entity
responsible  for  implementing  specific  thermal  renovation  projects  in  individual
participating municipalities  of the Selected Oblasts  selected  in accordance  with the
criteria  and procedures  defined  in  the  POM,  and  MCAs  means,  collectively,  all
such MCAs,  or  any successor  thereto.

"Oblast  Expertise"  or "OE" means  the Borrower's  agency  in  charge of reviewing
and approving  technical  aspects of thermal renovation  projects.

"Operating  Costs" means  the incremental  expenses  incurred by the PMU and each
PIU,  on  account  of Project  implementation,  which  would  not  exist  absent  the
Project,  and  includes  the  costs  for  office  rent,  operation  and  maintenance  of
vehicles,  office  equipment  and  supplies,  communication  costs,  support  for
information  systems,  translations,  bank charges,  travel  and per diem costs, salaries

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

- 16-

of  incremental  contractual  staff  (excluding  consulting  services  and  salaries  of
officials  of  the  Borrower's  civil  service),  office  administration  costs,  and  other
reasonable  expenditures  directly associated  with  the carrying  out of the Project,  as
agreed by  the Bank;  and based on  an  annual  budget  acceptable  to the Bank.

"Partially  Repayable Grant  Scheme" means  the program  for thermal  renovation of
MABs under which the Borrower requests repayment  of part of the investment cost
incurred  for  carrying  out  the TRP  as  described  under  Part  2  (d)  of the  Project  in
Schedule  1,  and Section  I.B.2  in Schedule  2,  to this Agreement.

"PIU"  or  "Project  Implementation  Unit"  means 
the  unit  within  the  PMU
established  in accordance  with the criteria  and procedures  satisfactory  to the Bank,
and PIUs  means,  collectively,  all such PIUs.

"PMU"  or  "RUE  Belinvestenergosberezhenie" means  the  unit  within  the  EED
established  pursuant  to  Regulation  No.  1311  of  the  Borrower's  Council  of
Ministers,  dated  October  3,  1997,  responsible  of the  Project  implementation,  or
any  successor thereto.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers",  dated  July 2016,  revised November  2017  and August  2018.

"Program  for  Thermal  Renovation"  means  the  Borrower's  program  to  upgrade
eligible  MABs  by  carrying  out  TRPs  and  establishing  a  mechanism  of partially
repayable grant  scheme.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  or  "POM"  means  the  manual  for the  Project,  to  be
prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  describing  and
setting  forth  procedures  for  implementation  of  the  Project  and  institutional
arrangements,  including  coordination  with  the  PMU  Project  Director  and  PIU's
Project Coordinators  appointed  by  the Borrower,  consistent  with the provisions  of
this Agreement  and with  applicable  laws and regulations  and including,  inter alia,
timetables  of actions  required  to  be carried  out  under  the  Project,  the respective
roles  and responsibilities  of the  agencies  involved  in  the  implementation  of the
Project,  criteria  for the  use  of grants  under  Part  2  (c)  of the  Project,  staffing,  the
fiduciary, technical  and operational  aspects  and procedures  for implementation  of
the  Project, 
(budgeting,
accounting  and  internal  control,  disbursement  and  flow  of  funds,  financial
reporting,  annual reports,  internal  and external  audit  arrangements  procedures  and
including  the  Project  specific  chart  of  accounts),  procurement  procedures,
monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements,  and  other  fiduciary  and  administrative
arrangements  and necessary terms of reference,  as the same may be amended from
time  to time by  agreement  with the Bank.

financial  management  procedures 

including 

the 

- 17-

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

"Safeguard  Instruments"  means  collectively,  the  ESIA,  ESMF  and  ESMP  and
"Safeguard  Instrument"  means  any of such  Safeguards  Instruments

"Selected  Oblasts" means  the two  oblasts  within the  Borrower's  territory,  namely
Grodno  and  Mogilev,  selected  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and  procedures
agreed with  the  Bank in  which  TRPs  and  the piloting  of a  PRG  scheme  shall  be
carried out under  Part  2 of the  Project.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  later  of the  two dates  on which the  Borrower  and the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such  definition  applies  to  all  references  to  "the
date of the Loan Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

"Thermal  Renovation  Project" or "TRP"  means  an  activity to be carried out by the
Borrower under Part  2 (a) through  (c)  of the Project, and TRPs means,  collectively,
all such  TRPs.

including 

"Training"  means  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  consultants'  services)
incurred  by  the  Borrower  in  connection  with  the  carrying  out  of  seminars,
workshops, 
(i.e.  accommodation,
transportation  and  per-diem,  inter alia) of trainees  and  trainers  (if applicable),
training  registration  fees,  catering,  rental  of  training  facilities  and  equipment,
logistics  and printing services,  as  well  as training  materials  for the purposes of and
directly related  to the  activities  described  in the Project.

travel  costs 

reasonable 

the 

