OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8867-AR

Loan Agreement

(Integrated  Risk  Management  in the Rural  Agroindustrial  System Project)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of the  Signature  Date  between  the  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC
AND

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

INTERNATIONAL 

BANK 

and 

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.04. 

2.05. 

ARTICLE I  - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the Appendix  to this Agreement)  apply to  and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II- LOAN

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of one  hundred  and  fifty  million
Dollars  (USD  150,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be converted  from  time  to time  through
a Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to assist in  financing the project  described  in Schedule  1
to this Agreement  ("Project").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  III  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representatives  for purposes  of taking  any
action required  or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are its Minister of Treasury,
its  Undersecretary  of  International  Financial  Relations,  or  its  National  Director  of
Financing with  International  Credit  Institutions.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  is one quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

The  Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter  of  one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

The interest  rate is  the Reference  Rate  plus  the Variable  Spread  or such  rate  as may  apply
following a Conversion;  subject to Section  3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment  Dates are  January  15  and July  15  in  each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry out  the Project,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE:

(a) 

(b) 

in coordination  with  GSA's Sub-secretariat  of Political Coordination  for Part  A of
the Project,  GSA's Secretariat of Agriculture,  Livestock and Fisheries  for technical
assistance  activities  under  Part  B  of the  Project,  GSA's  National  Directorate  of
Agricultural  Emergencies  and Disasters  for  Part C  of the  Project  and the  Selected
Public  Institutions  for  Part A  of the  Project;  and

with  the  assistance  of  the  Participating  Provinces,  under  the  terms  of  the
Framework  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  and  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements,  for
Part  B  of the  Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event of Suspension  consists  of the following,  namely  that a  Participating
Province  has  failed  to comply  with  any  of its obligations  under  its  respective  Framework
Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  or  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement.

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration  consists  of the following,  namely,  the event specified
in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a  period  of 60 days  after
notice of the  event  has  been given by  the Bank to the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after  the
Signature Date.

ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

Except as  provided  in  Section 2.02  of this Agreement,  the Borrower's  Representative  is  its
Minister of Treasury.

6.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) the Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Treasury
Hip6lito  Yrigoyen  250
C1086  AAB,  Buenos  Aires
Argentina;  and

(b)  the  Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 
121942-AR 

Facsimile: 
54114349-8815 

E-mail:
secpriv@mecon.gob.ar

-2-

6.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) the Bank's  address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b)  the  Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

248423(MCI)  or 

64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391 

jhentschel@worldbank.org

AGREED  as  of the Signature  Date.

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

By 

6&
Au tonzed  epresentative

Name: 

Title:

Date: 

NICOLAS  DUJOVNE
Ministro do Hacienda

12  FEB.  2019

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

. 4' 
A 1 

orized Representative

Name:  Jesko  keniGchel

Title: 

Cou o+r 

),crj Dreclor

Date:  Jonuari  3 

2 O1  

-3-

"
)
SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the Project  is to  improve  the management  of agricultural  risk by  Eligible

Beneficiaries  and Selected  Public  Institutions.

The  Project consists of the following  parts:

Part A.  Strengthening  Agroclimatic  Information Systems

Support for improvements in the capacity and interoperability  of agroclimatic and price information
systems operated  and/or disseminated  by  GSA  and  other public  and private  entities  through:

A.1. 

Development  of Tools  and Systems

Consolidation  and  integration  of production,  price,  and  meteorological  information  generated  by
[NTA,  CONAE,  and  Commodity  Exchanges  into  information  technology  systems  and
SMN, 
software  solutions  that  improve  access  to  agroindustrial  information  and  enhance  the  assessment
of  agricultural  risks  associated  with  climate  variability,  climate  change,  and  market  price
fluctuations.

A.2. 

Institutional Capacity Development

Capacity  building  in  Selected  Public  Institutions  and  GSA  to  operate  the  information  systems
improved  and  integrated  under  Part  A. 1.  of the  Project  and  development  of user  interfaces  to
facilitate  the  development  of software  solutions  by  the private  sector,  based  on data  generated  by
such information  systems.

Part B.  Agricultural Risk Mitigation  Investments

Support for the miti&ation  of agricultural  risk through:

B.1. 

Institutional Strengthening for the Integrated Management  of Agricultural Risk

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Formulation  of up to  15  Agricultural  Value  Chain  Risk  Strategies  (AVCRSs)  for
prioritized  agricultural  value  chains  and  up  to  15  Provincial  Agricultural  Sector
Risk Management  Plans  (PARMPs).

Capacity  building  for  national  and  provincial  government  institutions  in  the
integrated  management  of agricultural  risks.

Formulation  of subprojects  for climatic risk mitigation  prioritized  by PARMPs and
AVCRSs,  and  pre-investment  studies  for the  design of other activities  prioritized
in  PARMPs  and AVCRSs.

-4-

B.2. 

Public  Investments

Carrying  out  of  infrastructure,  natural  resource  management  or  other  weather  risk  management
investments  (the  Risk  Mitigation  Subprojects)  identified  and  prioritized  in:  (a)  AVCRSs;  or  (b)
PARMPs,  in the latter  case  in  a number  of Participating  Provinces not  exceeding  12.

B.3. 

Adoption  of Climate Smart Agriculture Technologies

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

Training and technical  assistance  services  for  Vulnerable  Family  Farmers,  Farmer
Groups, and  Selected  Financial  Institutions  to  promote their adoption  of validated
CSA technologies.

Applied  research,  piloting,  and  dissemination  of  promising  but  untested  CSA
technologies  and  risk management  practices  and instruments.

Provision of Matching  Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries  to carry out on-farm  or  off-
farm  investments  required  for  the adoption and  application  of CSA  technologies,
risk  management  practices,  and  instruments  in  their  farming  activities  (the  CSA
Technology  Activities).

Part C.  Agricultural Emergency  Response  Financing and Transfer of Agroclimatic  Risks

Support  for the improvement  for the Borrower's  agricultural  emergency  system  at the national  and
provincial  levels  and the expansion  of risk coverage  through:

Training and technical  assistance  services to strengthen  GSA's  capacity to manage
agricultural  emergencies.

Development  of agricultural  risk  financing  instruments  aimed  to  protect  family
farmers  with  aggregated  data  at  the  provincial  and  regional-level  such  as
parametric  insurance,  catastrophe  bonds,  contingent  lines  of credit,  and  weather
derivatives,  as  well  as  training  and  technical  assistance  for  their  validation  and
adoption.

(c) 

Pilot  implementation  of  macro-level  agricultural  risk  financing  instruments  to
protect  family farmers  against production  risks in their  farming  operations.

Part D.  Project Coordination,  Monitoring  and Evaluation

Support  for:

(a) 

Project  coordination  and  management,  monitoring, 
assessment  of Project  activities;

results  evaluation,  and

(b) 

Project  fiduciary  administration,  internal  controls,  and audits;

-5-

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Project environmental  and social  risk/safeguards  management;

citizen  engagement mechanisms  and  grievance  redress  mechanism;  and

Project  related  studies proposed by  GSA  and  agreed to by  the Bank.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

B. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall, 
through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  maintain 
the
implementation,  monitoring  and  supervision  of the  Project  a  structure,  functions  and
responsibilities,  and  staffing  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  fiduciary,  administrative
and  technical  personnel,  and  social  and  environmental  specialists,  all  with  qualifications,
experience and terms of employment  acceptable to the Bank,  as set  forth  in the Operational
Manual.

for  purpose  of 

2. 

The Borrower  shall, through  GSA's DIPROSE:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

not later than three months  after the Signature Date start design of a digital registry,
operated  and  with  a  structure  and  mechanisms  as  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual,  of beneficiaries  of Part  B of the Project;  and

as  soon  as  technically  and  operationally  possible  but  not  later  than  nine  months
after  the  Signature  Date,  start  implementation  of  the  digital  registry  of  the
beneficiaries  of all  Parts of the Project.

Operational Manual

The Borrower  shall, through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  carry  out the Project in  accordance  with  a
manual  (the Operational  Manual),  acceptable  to the Bank,  which shall  include,  inter alia:

the  budgeting,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting, 
disbursement  procedures  of the Project;

financial,  procurement  and

the  eligibility  criteria  for  Vulnerable  Family  Farmers,  Farmer  Groups,  Selected
Public  Institutions,  Selected  Financial  Institutions  and Participating  Provinces;

the  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  for  the  selection,  approval,  carrying  out,
monitoring  and supervision  of Risk Mitigation  Subprojects  and  CSA Technology
Activities  and  related  Matching  Grants;

the  model 
Agreement,  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and Matching  Grant Agreement;

form  of  Cooperation  Agreement,  Framework  Subsidiary  Loan

the  organizational  structure  for  implementation  of  the  Project,  including  the
cooperating  roles  of the  Selected  Public  Institutions;

-7-

2. 

C. 

1. 

(f) 

(g) 

(a) 

(b) 

the  Project indicators  for the monitoring  and evaluation  of the  Project; and

the Safeguards  Documents,  including  the grievance redress  mechanism  applicable
to the Project.

In  case  of any  conflict  between  the  terms  of the  Operational  Manual  and  those  of this
Agreement,  the terms  of this  Agreement  shall prevail.

Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  and Risk Mitigation  Subprojects

The  Borrower  shall,  through GSA's  DIPROSE:

prior  to  the  implementation  of any  activity  under  Part  B.2  of the  Project  for  the
benefit  of a  Participating  Province,  enter  into an  agreement  with  the  Participating
Province,  under  terms  substantially  similar  to  those  in  the  Model  Form  of
Framework  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  under  terms  and  conditions
acceptable  to the Bank,  setting forth the framework for the implementation of Risk
Mitigation Subprojects  in their jurisdiction;  and

prior to  the  implementation  of any  Risk  Mitigation  Subproject  and  not  later  than
24  months from  the Signature  Date,  enter into  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  with
the  Participating  Province  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
including  the following terms:

(i) 

that  the  part  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  for  Part  B.2  of the
Project  and required for implementation  of the Risk Mitigation  Subproject
will  be  on-lent  to the  Participating  Province  as  a  subloan  which  shall  be:
(A)  denominated  and  repayable  in  Dollars;  and  (B)  with  financial  terms
and conditions  similar  to those of the Loan;  and

(ii) 

that  the  Borrower,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  require  each  Participating
Province to:

(1) 

carry  out  its  Risk  Mitigation  Subproject  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  economic,
financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards  and
practices satisfactory  to the Bank,  including:  (A)  the Participating
Province's  undertaking  to carry out  its Risk Mitigation Subproject
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Safeguard  Documents,
the  Anti-Corruption
the  Procurement  Regulations, 
Guidelines;  (B)  the  Bank's  and  the  Borrower's,  through  GSA's
DIPROSE,  right to  require  audits  of the Participating  Province's
through  GSA's
records  and  accounts; 
DIPROSE,  right to suspend, terminate  or accelerate  or seek refund
of the subloan;

the  Borrower's, 

and 

(C) 

-8-

(II) 

(I) 

(IV) 

(A)  maintain a  financial  management  system  in  accordance  with
consistently  applied  accounting  standards  acceptable to the Bank,
in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect  the  operations,  resources  and
expenditures  related  to  the  Risk  Mitigation  Subproject;  and  (B)
enable the Bank's or the Borrower's  representatives  to have access
to such  financial  management  system;

enable  the Borrower,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  and the Bank  to
inspect  the  Risk  Mitigation  Subproject,  its  operation,  including
environmental  and  social  risk  management,  and  any  relevant
records and documents;  and

prepare  and  furnish  to  GSA's  DIPROSE,  and the  Bank  all  such
information  as  GSA's  DIPROSE,  or  the  Bank,  shall  reasonably
request relating  to the foregoing.

2. 

D. 

1 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  exercise  its  rights under each  Framework
Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  and Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in such manner  as to  protect
the  interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.
Except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the Borrower  shall,  through  GSA's DIPROSE,
not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate  or  waive  any  Framework  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement  or Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  or any  of their  provisions.

Cooperation  Agreements

The Borrower  shall,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE:

(a) 

(b) 

not later than four  months  after the  Signature  Date with  respect to  INTA, CONAE,
and  SMN;  and

prior to  initiating any activities  for the strengthening  of the agroclimatic  and price
information  systems  operating  in  the  Borrower's  territory  and  involving  the
cooperation  of  other  Selected  Public  Institutions,  enter 
into  a  cooperation
agreement  with  INTA,  CONAE,  SMN  and  the  respective  Selected  Public
Institution, 
in  terms  substantially  similar  to  those  in  the  Model  Form  of
Cooperation  Agreement  and  acceptable  to the  Bank,  setting  forth their  respective
responsibilities  in the implementation  of such activities.

The  Borrower shall,  through  GSA's DIPROSE,  exercise  its rights under  each  Cooperation
Agreement  in  such manner  as  to protect the  interests  of the Borrower and  the Bank and to
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Borrower,  through GSA's  DIPROSE, shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate  or waive
any Cooperation  Agreement  or any of their  provisions.

-9-

E. 

1. 

2. 

CSA  Technology  Activities  and  Matching  Grants

The  Borrower  shall,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  provide  Matching  Grants  to  Eligible
Beneficiaries  for the implementation  of CSA  Technology  Activities  under Part  B.  3  (c)  of
the  Project  in  accordance  with  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank
and specified  in  the Operational  Manual.

Prior  to  the  initiation  of any  CSA  Technology  Activity  by  an  Eligible  Beneficiary,  the
Borrower  shall,  through  GSA's DIPROSE:

enter into an agreement with  the Eligible Beneficiary,  in terms substantially  similar
to  those  in  the  model  form  of Matching  Grant  Agreement,  and  in  terms  and
conditions  acceptable  to the  Bank;  and

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Matching  Grant
Agreement  in  such  manner  as to  protect the interest  of the Borrower  and the Bank
and to accomplish  the objectives  of the Project.  Except as  the Bank shall  otherwise
agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate  of waive  or  fail
to enforce  any Matching  Grant  Agreement  or  any of its  provisions.

F. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower shall,  through GSA's  DIPROSE:

implement  and  cause  the  Participating  Provinces  to  implement,  the  Project  in
accordance  with the  ESMF,  RPF  and  IPPF;

comply  and  cause  the  Participating  Provinces  to  comply,  with  the  procedures
detailed  in  said  ESMF,  RPF  and  IPPF  for  environmental  screening  and  social
assessment,  evaluation,  implementation  and  monitoring  of the  Project,  including
the procedures  for the preparation  of ESMPs,  RAPs and  IPPs,  if applicable;  and

as  applicable,  implement  and  cause  to  be  implemented  by  the  Participating
Provinces  and Eligible  Beneficiaries,  the pertinent  ESMPs,  RAPs  and  IPPs,  all  in
accordance  with their  terms  and in  a  manner  acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Proiect Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  furnish to  the  Bank  each  Project Report  not  later
than  45 days after  the end of each calendar  semester, covering  the calendar semester.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

-10-

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

A. 

General

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions  and  in
accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the  Borrower  may
withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan to:  (a)  finance  Eligible  Expenditures;  and  (b)  pay:  (i)
the Front-end  Fee;  and (ii)  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar  premium;  in the
amount  allocated and,  if applicable,  up to the percentage  set forth  against each  Category  of
the following table:

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

(1)  Goods 
(2)  Non-consulting  services, 
Training,  Financial
Instruments  Costs and
consulting services
(3)  Works 
(4)  Grants  under  Part  B.3  of 
the Project
(5)  Operating  Costs 
(6)  Front-end  Fee 

20,750,000 
46,365,000 

72,000,000 
8,500,000 

2,010,000 
375,000 

(7)  Interest Rate Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

150,000,000

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes  except
for Taxes  levied  for
financial  transactions)
100%
100%

100%
100%

100%
Amount payable  pursuant  to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due pursuant  to
Section 4.05  (c)  of the
General  Conditions

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above,  no withdrawal shall  be made for payments
made  prior  to the  Signature  Date,  except  that withdrawals  up  to an  aggregate  amount  not
to  exceed  USD15,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to this  date
but on or after March  30,  2018,  for Eligible  Expenditures.

2. 

The Closing Date  is  December  31, 2024.

-11-

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization  Repayment  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the percentage  of the
total  principal  amount  of the  Loan payable  on each  Principal  Payment Date  ("Installment  Share").

Principal Payment  Date 

On each January 15  and July15

Beginning  January  15,  2026
through July  15,  2049 

On January  15,  2050 

Level  Principal Repayments

Installment  Share

2.04%
2.08%

-12-

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the Appendix  to the
General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud and  Corruption
in Projects  Financed  by IBRD Loans and IDA  Credits and Grants", dated  October 15,  2006
and  revised  in January  2011  and as  of July  1,  2016.

"Agricultural  Value  Chain  Risk  Strategy"  or  "AVCRS"  means  an  interprovincial
agricultural  chain  risk  strategy  prepared  and  implemented  by  GSA  or  its  decentralized
agencies  following the requirements  of the Operational  Manual.

"Category"  means  any category  set  forth in the table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

"Commodity  Exchange"  means  any  agricultural  exchange  operated  in  the  Borrower's
territory.

"CONAE" means  Comisidn Nacional de Actividades Espaciales, the  Borrower  National
Commission  of Space Activities  established  pursuant to the Borrower's  Decree No.  995  of
1991  published in  the Official  Gazette on June 3,  1991,  as  amended to the date of the  Loan
Agreement.

"Cooperation  Agreement"  means  any  cooperation  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between
the  Borrower,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE  and a  Selected  Public  Institution,  pursuant to the
provisions  of Section LD  of Schedule  2  to the Loan  Agreement.

"CSA"  means  climate  smart  agriculture,  a  set  of  measures  designed  to  increase  farm
revenue and  have  a positive  environmental  impact.

"CSA  Technology  Activity"  means  an  investment  or investments  to  be  carried  out  by  an
Eligible Beneficiary  to adopt  and apply  CSA  technologies.

"DIPROSE"  means  Direcci6n  General  de  Programas y  Proyectos  Sectoriales  y
Especiales, GSA's  General  Directorate  of Sectoral  and  Special  Programs  and  Projects  or
any  successor  thereto,  acceptable  to the Bank.

"Displaced  Person" means  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the Project  had
or  would  have  been  affected  by  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the  Project,  which
causes  said  Displaced  Person  to have  his/her:  (a)  standard  of living  adversely affected;  or
(b)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  construction,  land  (including  premises,  agricultural  and
grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset  acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or
permanently;  or  (c)  access  to  productive  assets  adversely  affected, 
temporarily  or

-13-

11. 

12. 

13. 

permanently;  or (d)  business,  occupation,  work  or  place  of residence  or habitat  adversely
affected,  temporarily  or  permanently;  and  "Displaced  Persons"  means,  collectively,  all
such Displaced  Persons.

"Eligible  Beneficiaries"  means  collectively  Vulnerable  Family  Farmers  and  Family
Farmers  Groups.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  or "ESMP" means  any environmental  and
social  management  plan prepared,  consulted,  published and  implemented by  the  Borrower
based  on the  ESMF,  found acceptable  to the Bank,  and setting forth  detailed modalities for
environmental  and social  management  under the Project.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF" means  the Borrower's
framework  dated  January  2018,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and  available  to  the
public  on  the  website  of GSA  and  on  the  Bank's  external  website,  which  contains  the
environmental  and  social  protection  measures  to  be  taken  by  the  Borrower,  Participating
Provinces  and  Beneficiaries  in respect  of the Project,  including,  inter alia:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

measures  for chance  findings of cultural  property;

guidelines for the identification of existing environmental  and social conditions and
risks and  potential  direct  and  indirect  environmental  and social  impacts  resulting
from  the carrying  out  of the  Project;

guidelines  for the  carrying  out  of environmental  assessments  and  the preparation
of ESMP  in the scope and depth  as  applicable;

procedures  to  be  followed  for  activities  affecting  International  Waterways  as
required  by  the Operational  Policy  7.50;

a framework  for  integrated  management  of pesticides;

to  apply  mechanisms  for  participative  planning,  educational  and
guidance 
communication  activities  to  induce  knowledge,  attitude  and  behavioral  changes,
involving  men and women;

mitigation measures and good practices for each negative environmental  and social
impacts identified;  and

measures  for enhancing  each  identified positive  environmental  and  social  impact,
as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to time  with  the agreement  of the
Bank.

14. 

"Family  Farmer"  means a family  farmer who carries out productive agricultural,  livestock,
forestry,  fishing,  and  aquaculture  activities  in  rural  areas  and  fulfills the  requirements  of

-14-

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

the Borrower's  Family Farmers  Law No 27118 published in the Official Gazette on January
28,  2015.

"Family  Farmer  Group"  means  a  farmer  association  or  cooperative  that  has  a  majority  of
members  composed  of Family  Farmers.

"Financial  Instruments  Costs"  means  any  premia  or  other  costs  charged  for the  financial
services  to be  contracted  under Part  C  (c) of the Project.

"Framework  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  any of the agreements  to be  entered  into
between  the Borrower,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  and a  Participating  Province,  pursuant
to the provisions  of Section  I.C. 1(a)  of Schedule  2  to the Loan Agreement,  setting forth the
framework  for  implementation  of Risk  Mitigation  Subprojects.

"General  Conditions" means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project  Financing",  dated  July  14,
2017.

"GSA" means the Government  Secretariat  of Agroindustry  under the Borrower's  Ministry
of Production  and Labor,  or any  successor  or successors  thereto,  acceptable  to the Bank.

"Indigenous  Peoples"  means  individuals  residing in the Borrower's  territory deemed  to be
Indigenous  Peoples  in  accordance  with the criteria  set forth  in  the Safeguard  Policies.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or  "IPPF"  means  the Borrower's  framework
dated  January  2018,  acceptable  to  the Bank,  published  and available  to  the public  on the
website of GSA  and on Bank's  external  website,  which  contains the culturally appropriate
procedures  to  be  followed  by  the  Borrower  and the  Participating  Provinces  for  Project
activities  affecting  Indigenous  Peoples,  including,  inter alia: guidelines  for the  preparation
of IPPs,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to time  with the  agreement  of the
Bank.

"INTA" means  Instituto Nacional de  Tecnologia Agropecuaria, the Borrower's  National
Institute  of Agricultural  Technology,  established  pursuant  to the  Borrower's  Decree  Law
No 21680/56  published  in the  Official  Gazette  on  December  10,  1956,  as  amended  to  the
date of the Loan Agreement.

"IPP"  means  any  Indigenous  Peoples'  Plan  prepared,  consulted,  published  and
implemented  by the Borrower based on the  IPPF, found  acceptable to the Bank,  and setting
forth detailed  procedures  to be  followed  for activities affecting  Indigenous  Peoples.

"Matching  Grant"  means  a  grant  made  or  to  be  made  to  a  Vulnerable  Family  Farmer  or
Family  Farmer  Group  which  meets  the  criteria  for  eligibility  set forth  in  the Operational
Manual.

-15-

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

"Matching  Grant  Agreement"  means  any  agreement  entered  into  between  the  Borrower,
through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  and  an  Eligible  Beneficiary  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
Section  I.E of Schedule  2  to the Loan  Agreement.

"Official  Gazette"  means  Boletin Oficial, the Borrower's  official  gazette.

"Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  recurrent  expenditures  (none  of which  would  have
been  incurred  absent  the  Project),  incurred  by  the  Borrower  for  the  implementation,
coordination  and  supervision  of  the  Project,  including,  inter  alia,  travel  costs  (i.e.
transportation  and  per-diem);  operation  and  maintenance  of  office
accommodation, 
equipment;  vehicle  rental,  operation,  insurance  and  maintenance  costs;  rental  of offices;
utilities;  non-durable  and/or  consumable  office  materials;  banking  fees;  communication,
printing and publications;  and salaries  of support  staff working  for the Project.

"Operational  Manual"  means the Borrower's  manual referred  to in Section  I.B  of Schedule
2 to this  Agreement  and  dated April  18,  2018,  as the  same  may be  amended  from time to
time  with the  prior written approval  of the  Bank.

"Participating  Province"  means  any  of the  Borrower's  provinces which have been  selected
to  participate  in  the  implementation  of  Part  B  of the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Operational  Manual.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  87  of the Appendix  to the
General  Conditions,  the "World  Bank  Procurement Regulations  for  IPF  Borrowers",  dated
July 2016,  revised  November 2017.

"Provincial  Agricultural  Sector  Risk  Management  Plan"  or  "PARMP"  means  any
Provincial  Agricultural  Sector  Risk  Management  Plan  prepared  and  implemented  by  a
Participating  Province  following the  requirements  of the Operational  Manual.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "RAP"  means  any  resettlement  action  plan  prepared  and
implemented  in accordance  with the  requirements  of the RPF.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework  dated
January  2018,  acceptable  to the Bank,  published and available  to the  public on the website
of GSA  and on Bank's  external  website,  as  adopted  by the Borrower,  and setting  forth the
modalities  for  resettlement  and compensation  of  inter alia, Displaced  Persons,  including
guidelines  for  the  preparation  of any  RAP  under  the  Project,  as  said  framework  may  be
amended  from time to time with  the agreement  of the  Bank.

"Risk  Mitigation  Subproject"  means  an  infrastructure,  natural  resource  management  or
other  weather  risk  mitigation  investment  identified  and  prioritized  by  a  Participating
Province  in a PARMP  or by GSA  or its  decentralized  institutions  in a  AVCRS  which meets
the criteria  of the  Operational  Manual  for selection  and  implementation  under Part  B.2  of
the Project.

-16-

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

"Safeguards  Documents"  means  collectively  the  ESMF,  the  IPPF  and  the  RPF,  and the
procedures  to be  followed  as  per the requirements  of OP  7.36  of the  Safeguard  Policies.

"Safeguards  Policies"  means  the  Bank's  operational  policies  and  procedures,  namely
OP/BP  4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37  and  7.36;  they  can  be  found  at
https:/policies.worldbank.org.

"Selected  Financial  Institutions"  means  any  financial 
Borrower's  territory  eligible to  participate  in  Part  B.3  (a) of the  Project.

institution  operating 

in  the

"Selected  Public  Institutions"  means  INTA,  CONAE,  SMN,  other  decentralized  agencies
of GSA  and the  Participating  Provinces,  which  meet  the requirements  of the  Operational
Manual  to  participate  in  Part  A. 1  of the  Project.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  later  of the two  dates  on  which  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
signed this Agreement  and such definition applies  to all  references  to "the date of the  Loan
Agreement"  in  the General  Conditions.

"SMN"  means  Servicio Metereol6gico Nacional, the Borrower's  National  Meteorological
Service  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  12945  published  in  the  Official
Gazette on  June 27,  1947, as  amended  to the date  of the Loan  Agreement.

"Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  any  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered  into
between  the  Borrower,  through  GSA's  DIPROSE,  and  a  Participating  Province  pursuant
to the provisions  of Section  I.C. 1(b)  of Schedule  2  to the Loan  Agreement.

"Training"  means  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  consulting  services)  incurred  by  the
Borrower  or  a  Participating  Province  in  connection  with  the  carrying  out  of seminars,
workshops,  including  the reasonable  travel  costs  (i.e.  accommodation,  transportation  and
per-diem) of trainees  and trainers  (if applicable),  trainers  honorarium,  training registration
fees,  catering,  rental  of training  facilities  and  equipment,  logistics  and printing services,  as
well  as training materials  for the purposes  of and directly  related to the activities described
in  the  Project.

43. 

"Vulnerable  Family  Farmer"  means  a Family  Farmer  who is  deemed  vulnerable following
the criteria  and procedural  requirements  set  forth in the Operational  Manual.

-17-

