Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

 

LOAN NUMBER 3768 RU

Loan Agreement

(Second 0il Rehabilitation Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated S‘Cpk"kéu 27 , 1994

 

 
LOAN NUMBER 3768 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated S&ﬁéwéer 27, 1994, between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by OTJSC
Megionneftegas (Megivmneftegas), Part B of the Project will be
carried out by OTJSC Tomskneft (Tomskneft) and Part C of the Project
will be carried out by OTJSC Yuganskneftegas (Yuganskneftegas), all
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Megionneftegas, Tomskneft and
Yuganskneftegas the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Yuganskneftegas
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Yuganskneftegas, in the Tomskneft Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank ind Tomskneft and in the Megionneftegas
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Megionneftegas;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

{(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(b) In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

 
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under whichk any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

(a) "Megionneftegas" means 0TJSC Megionneftegas incorporated
under its Charter dated July 5, 1993 (the Charter);

(b) "Megionneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and OTJSC Megionneftegas (Megionneftegas) of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Megionneftegas Project Agreement;

(c) "Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Megionneftegas
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement;.

(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means. the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated June 8, 1994 and June 20, 1994 between
the Borrower and the Bank;

(e) "Tomskneft" means OTJSC Tomskneft incorporated under its
Charter dated July 5, 1993 (the Charter);

(£) "Tomskneft Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and OTJSC Tomskneft (Tomskneft) of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Tomskneft Project Agreement;

(g) "Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Tomskneft
pursuant to Section 3.0l (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

 
(h) "Yuganskneftegas" means 0TJSC Yuganskneftegas
incorporated under its Charter dated July 9, 1993 (the Charter);

(1) "Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and OTJSC Yuganskneftegas (Yuganskneftegas) of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement; and

(i) "Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Yuganskneftegas pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

ARTICLE II
The Loan

Section 2.0l. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule | to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

 
-4 -

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%Z). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c) For the purposes of this Section:

(i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as 'reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.

(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

 
-5 -

"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter.”

"(e¢) (iii) *Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. Yuganskneftegas is designated as representative
of the Borrower in respect of Part C of the Project for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

Section 2.09. Tomskneft is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

Section 2.10. Megionneftegas is designated as representative
of the Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project

Section 3.0l. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and Megionneftegas to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Yuganskneftegas Project
Agreement, the Tomskneft Project Agreement and the Megionneftegas
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of
Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and Megionneftegas therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and Megionneftegas
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

(b) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $190 million
to Yuganskneftegas under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include: (i) ten years maturity with two years grace period; (ii)
interest rate at Bank’s rate plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii)
foreign exchange risk borne by Yuganskneftegas

(c) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $160 million
to Tomskneft under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Tomskneft, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include: (i) ten
year maturity with two years grace period, (ii) interest rate at
Bank’s rate plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii) foreign exchange risk
borne by Tomskneft.

(d) The Borrower shall relend to Megionneftegas the
equivalent of $150 million under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Megionneftegas, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which
shall include: (i) ten years maturity with two years grace period;
(ii) interest rate at Bank’s rate plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii)
foreign exchange risk borne by Megionneftegas.

 
 

-7 -

(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

(f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

(g) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part C of the
Project shall be carried out by Yuganskneftegas pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement; (b) Part B of the
Project shall be carried out by Tomskneft pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Tomskneft Project Agreement; and (c) Part A of the Project
shall be carried out by Megionneftegas pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Megionneftegas Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank

Section 4.0l1. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft or Megionneftegas shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Yuganskneftegas
Project Agreement, Tomskneft Project Agreement or Megionneftegas
Project Agreement, respectively.
 

-8 -

(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft or
Megionneftegas will be able to perform its obligations under the
Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement, Tomskneft Project Agreement or
Megionneftegas Project Agreement, respectively.

(c) The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Yuganskneftegas to perform any of its
obligations under the Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement.

(d) The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Tomskneft to perform any of its obligations
under the Tomskneft Project Agreement.

(e) The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Megionneftegas to perform any of its
obligations under the Megionneftegas Project Agreement.

(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdictiocn
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Yuganskneftegas or for the suspension of its operatioms.

(g) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Tomskneft or for the suspension of its operatioms.

(h) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Megionneftegas or for the suspension of its operationms.

Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this ‘Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

(b) any event specified in paragraph (c), (d), (e), (£f), (g)
and (h) of this Agreement shall occur.
 

-9 -

ARTICLE V
Termination

Section 5.0l1. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditioms,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower, Yuganskneftegas, Tomskneft and
Megionneftegas.

Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

(a) that the Yuganskneftegas Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Yuganskneftegas, and is legally binding
upon Yuganskneftegas in accordance with its terms;

(b) that the Tomskneft Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Tomskneft, and is legally binding upon
Tomskneft in accordance with its terms;

(e) that the Megionneftegas Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Megionneftegas, and is legally binding
upon Megionneftegas in accordance with its terms;

(d) that the Yuganskneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Yuganskneftegas in
accordance with its terms;

(e) that the Tomskneft Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Tomskneft and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Tomskneft in accordance with
its terms; and

(£) that the Megionneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Megionneftegas
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Megiomneftegas in
accordance with its terms.
- 10 -

Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.0l1. Except as provided in Sections 2.08, 2.09 and
2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General

Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
103092 Moscow

Ilyinka Street 9
Russian Federation

Telex:
112008
For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Cable address: Telex:

INTBAFRAD 248423 (RCA)

Washington, D.C. 82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUIL) or
197688 (TRT)

 
 

- 11 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

By/s/ 0. Sb&éa"té

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /..s / . ma—pué-

Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
- 12 -

SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated %z of
(Expressed in Expenditures

Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed

Part A of the Project

(1) Equipment 93,000,000 100%Z of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

(2) Commodities 7,400,000 100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%Z of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

{(3) Technical oil 35,100,000 100%
field services

(4) Technical 5,500,000 100%
assistance

 
Anmount of the

Loan Allocated % of

(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed

(5) Project Pre- 1,000,000 Amount due pur-
paration Advance suant to Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated 8,000,000

Part B of the Project

(7) Equipment 117,400,000 100%Z of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

(8) Commodities 1,600,000 100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%Z of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local

expenditures for
other items
procured locally

(9) Technical oil 20,500,000 100%
field services

(10) Technical 7,500,000 100%
assistance

(11) Project Pre- 1,000,000 Amounts due pur-
paration Advance suant to Section
2.02 (b) of this

Agreement

 
Category
(12) Unallocated
Part C of the Project

(13) Equipment

(l14) Commodities

(15) Technical oil
field services

(16) Technical
assistance

- 14 -

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in

Dollar Equivalent)

12,000,000

130,600,000

4,200,000

34,600,000

7,000,000

% of
Expenditures
to_be Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures,

100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory

cost) and 70%

of local expen-
nditures for other
items procured

locally

100%Z of foreign
expenditures,
100%Z of local
expenditures
(ex-factory

cost) and 70%

of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally

100%

1007

 
- 15 -

Amount of the
Loan Allocated % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(17) Project Pre- 1,000,000 Amounts due pur-
paration Advance suant to Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement

(18) Unallocated 12,600,000

TOTAL 500,000,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other

than that of the Borrower; and

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures”.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (4), (10) and (16) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1,
1994; (b) (i) payments made in respect of Categories (1) - (4) and
(6) (Part A of the Project) until Letters of Invitation and bidding
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for Part A (iv) (Environmental
Protection) have been issued, and (ii) financial auditors have been
appointed; (c¢) (i) payments made in respect of Categories (7) - (10)
and (12) (Part B of the Project) until Letters of Invitation and
bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for Part B (iv)
(Environmental Protection) have been issued, and (ii) financial

 
- 16 -

auditors have been appointed; and (d) (i) payments made in respect
of Categories (13) - (16) and (18) (Part C of the Project) until
Letters of Invitation and bidding documents, satisfactory to the
Bank, for Part C (iii) (Environmental Protection) have been issued,
and (ii) financial auditors have been appointed.

 
- 17 -

SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) finance specific
investments over a two year period in three selected oil producers’
associations, and (b) support the Borrower’s reform programs in the
oil sector in the areas of pricing, taxation, legislation,
restructuring and promotion of private sector investment.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Megionneftegas

(i) 0il Field Modernization: Workover and
modernization of about 75 wells including
provision of measuring facilities, in the Megion
and Pokamovskoye fields, in wells judged to
provide adequate economic returns and which do
not interfere with wells currently under or
previously committed to ' contract to other
parties.

Surface Facility Replacement: Reconstruction of
about 255 km of high priority surface
facilities, particularly, oil gathering lines,
pipelines and water conduits, in the above
mentioned fields.

In-£ill Drilling: In-fill and step-out drilling
of about 76 wells in the Megion and Pokamovskoye
fields, including the drilling of horizental
wells from existing wellpads to avoid drilling
in envirommentally sensitive regions of the
field and including  associated surface
facilities.

Environmental Protection: Enhancement of the
Association’s emergency response, environmental
monitoring and management capabilities
(including relations with indigenous peoples)
through provision of training, manuals and
equipment and initiation of trial clean-up

 
- 18 -

programs, such as bioremediation, for previous
spills and damage.

Field Optimization  Study: Carry out a
comprehensive field optimization study in ome of
the fields currently under production aimed at
identifying and evaluating optimal plans for
future operation of the field including both
subsurface and surface facility consideratioms.
The program would include provision of computer
equipment and services, plus training to
undertake reservoir analysis and simulationms.

Part B: Tomskneft

(1)

0il Field Modernization: Workover and
modernization of about 525 wells including
provision of measuring facilities, - in the
Sovietskoye, Vahk and Vasugan fields, in wells
judged to provide adequate economic returns and
whick do not interfere with wells currently
under or previously committed to contract to
other parties.

Surface Facility Replacement: Reconstruction of
about 576 km of Thigh priority surface
facilities, particularly, oil gathering lines,
pipelines and water conduits, in the above
mentioned fields.

In-fill Drilling: In-fill and step-out drilling
of about 11 wells in the above mentioned fields.

Environmental Protection: Enhancement of the
Association’s emergency response, environmental
monitoring and management capabilities
(including relations with indigenous peoples)
through provision of training, manuals and
equipment and dinitiation of trial clean-up
programs, such as bioremediation, for previous
spills and damage.

Field Optimization Study: Carry out a
comprehensive field optimization study in one of

 
 

- 19 -

the fields currently under production aimed at
identifying and evaluating optimal plans for
future operation of the field including both
subsurface and surface facility considerations.
The program would include provision of computer
equipment and - services, plus training to
undertake reservoir analysis and simulatioms.

Part C: Yuganskneftegas

(1)

(ii)

(iid)

0il Field Modernization: Workover and
modernization of about 576 wells including
provision of measuring facilities, din the
Mamantova and Srednye Asomkinskoye fields, in
wells judged to provide adequate economic
returns and which do not interfere with wells
currently wunder or previously committed to
contract to other parties.

In-£ill Drilling: In-fill and step-out drilling
of about 40 wells in the Mamantova and
Prirazlomnoye fields, including the drilling of
horizontal wells from existing wellpads to avoid
drilling in environmentally sensitive regions of
the field and including associated surface
facilities.

Environmental Protection: Enhancement  of the
Association’s emergency response, environmental
monitoring and management capabilities
(including relations with indigenous peoples)
through provision of training, manuals and
equipment and initiation of trial clean-up
programs, such as bioremediation, for previous
spills and damage.
- 20 -

Field Optimization  Study: Carry out a
comprehensive field optimization study in one of
the fields currently under production aimed at
identifying and evaluating optimal plans for
future operation of the field including both
subsurface and surface facility consideratioms.
The program would include provision of computer
equipment and services, plus training to
undertake reservoir analysis and simulations.

* % 0%

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

 
 

- 21 -

SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

Date Payment Due (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

beginning December 15, 1999 20,835,000
through  December 15, 201C

And on June 15, 2011 20,795,000

o

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
- 22 -

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable

time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Not more than three years
before maturity

More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not
more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before
maturity

Premium

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

0.18

0.35

 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the international Bank

for Reconstruction and Development.

X

FOR SECRETARY
