Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

W —— " w————

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS ;

o, m—e

Y

.

.

-

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8279-GE

Loan Agreement

(Secand Competitiven ess and Growth Development Policy Loan)

GEORGIA
and v

INTERNATION.AL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated ’\T‘W\"a 9 ,2013
LOAN NUMBER 8279-GE
LDAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated | ol Y \q , 2013, entered into between GEORGIA
(“Borrower”) and the [NTERN/. TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank™ for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as de:ined in the Appcndix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basi , inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken urider the Program ind which are described in Section | of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Eiorrower ind the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE [ -— GEMNERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in ‘the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part »f this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the conext reqiires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreemznt have the meai ings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to his Agre :ment.

ARTICLE It — LOAN

2.01. The Bark agrees to 12nd ty the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agree nent, the amount of thirty two million United States
dollars ($32,000,00(), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreemert (*_oan’).

2.02. The Borrower may vithd aw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Sectio 1 [1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The Front-end F e payab e by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Lcan amount.

2.04. The interest payble by tie Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Re'erence Fate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that ugon it Cor version of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loay, the intzrest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall ke defermined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article 1V of the Ceneril Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withcrawr Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment contintes for a deriod of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

 

-2-

the Berrower shall instcad be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.

The Puyment Cates are . anuary 15 and July 15 in each year.

The principal amount >f the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schednle set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(a)

(b)

(©)

The Bcrrower m ay at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the 12rms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a ctang: of he Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amoun! of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Curren y; 1ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstan:fing, frory a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portinn of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding. fror1 a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spiead, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loin vithdiawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of I'mits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or zny portinn of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstan:ing, by t1e establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar un the Veriable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any ccnvesion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accested by tie Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
in the Genural Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisiuns >f Article I'V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly foiloviing the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rete Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premiun bz paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of tae Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amourts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Szction 4 05 (¢) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated fiom t me to time for the purpose in the table in Section Il of
Schedule 1 to th s Agreement.

Without limitation 1pon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement anc relating to Coaperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
3.0l

4.0,

4.02.

_3.

promptly furnish to the B nk such information relating to the provisions of this
Article 1] as the Eiank may from time to time, reasonably request.

ART CLE IH — PROGRAM

The Borrower declarss its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and furtter to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrewe: and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
cither pa‘ty, exchinge views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
‘ramework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior to ¢ach suct exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
13ank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the I'rogram, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; ¢nd

() without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrcwer shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that wou d have tie effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any ¢ction taken under the Program including any action
specified in Secticn I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Livert of Suspension considts of the following, namely that a
situation has ariien whic1 shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part ol'it, will t ¢ carried out.

The Additional Even: of / cceleration consists of the following, namely tha, the
event spzcified in Se:tion 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period o7 thirty ((10) days .fter notice of the event has been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V — FFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Cond tion: of Effectiveness consist of the following:

(a) The Ban: is sati:fied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s

macroeccnomic puolicy framework.

(b) The Finincing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
conditions przcedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to
5.02.

6.02.

6.03.

_4-

make “vithdrawals under it (other than the ecffectiveness of this
Agreement. have. been fulfilled.

The Effectivencss 1Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the datz of this Agriemet.

ARTICLE VI - - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

The Borrower’s Reorese itative is its Minister of Finance,

The Borrower’s Adiress is:

Ministry of Finace
16 Gorgasali Stret

Thilisi V114
Georgii.
Facsimile:
+99532-262422
The Bank’s Address is:

Interna‘ional Bak for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Strzet, M. W, .
Washir gion, D.t7. 20433

United States of America +
Cable eddr:ss: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MClh) or 1-202-477-6391

Washirgto, D2, 64145(MC1)
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia. as o:'the day and year first above written.

  
  

G IORGIA

Authorized Representative

Nme: U0d e Khadurs

mie: Pliaistec  of  Fipaach

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Br: Q& f% E%
Authorized Representative

Nime: ¢ eral l‘

Tile: _Req) onal e CADe
_6-

SCHEDULE 1

Prorain Ac ions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section L. Action: under 1he Program

 

The actions taken by th: Berrow ar under the Program include the following:

1.

The Borrower hias issuet : (a) Governmental Decrees No, 317 and 318 dated July
31, 2012, and Wo. 488 «ated December 28, 2012; (b) Orders of the Minister of
Economy and fiustiinab ¢ Development No. 1-1/1527 dated July 23, 2012; and
No. 1-1/1740 dated Sep:ember 10, 2012; and (c) Decree of the Director General
of the Georgian Natioral Agency for Standards and Metrology No. 2 dated
January 10, 21113, for the implementation of the law on Safety and Free
Moverient of Products.

The Borrower Jias stren;thened the risks-based manﬂgemém of customs control
by intraoducing the zuton ated selectivity for transit traffic.

The Borrower™s Ministr/ of Energy has amended Order No. 77 on Electricity
(Capacity) Mariet ules dated August 30, 2006 by virtue of Order No. 99 dated
May 30, 2013 to prioritize new hydropower projects and renewable power
production access to tie grid with remaining congested transfer capacity
allocatd via transpirent auctions.

The Borrower™ Ministry of Education and Science has: (a) approved a new
nationz!l curriculum. for grades I through X1I; and (b) implemented the new
nationzl curriculun. for grades VII through X1 including the distribution of
suppor:ing materiali to s :hools.

The Borrower’s Minister of Education and Science has amended Order No. 576
dated October 21, 200% and issued Order No. 04/N dated January 29, 2013
approving new Teache' Salary Scale and Instructions recognizing teacher
experience and serforma ce.

The Berrower's Minister of Finance has issued Order No. 97 dated April 8, 2013
adoptir g the rules for the preparation of financial statements by the State Budget
Organizations ising th: modified cash-basis methods in accordance with
interna:ional pulic sectc r accounting standards (IPSAS).

The Eorrower's Minisry of Finance has harmonized electronic budget
management sytterr (E-tudget) with the electronic treasury system (E-treasury).

The Berrower Fas issuec Governmental Decree No. 36 dated February 21, 2013
introducing universul hezIth coverage for the primary and emergency care.
9.

_7-

The Borrower has zdoptd three (3) pilot modules in the district of Tbilisi,
Rustavi and Mtskhetii regions for social information management systems on: (a)
state persion; (b) state cor ipensation; and (c) state social packages.

Section 11. Availability of L« an Proceeds

A.

General, The Borrcwer nay withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisicns of thi; Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may spezify by natic: to te Borrower.

Alocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) s allocaed in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may niake witl drawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the L.»an to th's end is set out in the table below:

  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

Amount of the Loan
Allocated

Allocatioas (expressed in Dollars)

 

m Single 'Vitt draw al Tranche 31.920,000

 

) Front-eid Fee

 

3) Amoun. due pur: uant to Section
2.07(c) of this A jreement

 

TOTAL AM UNT

 

Withdrawal Trinclie Rilease Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal “rancae unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program
being carried ou: by the Horrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s
macroeconomic “olity fre mework.

Deposits of Loas Anour ts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1. all withdrawals f om the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an zccont dsignated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and

2. the Borrower sh:ll ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the

Loan in-o this ascount, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budg:t management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
.8-

Excluded Exypendituris. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used : 0 finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that en an ount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expendiure, he Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amcunt equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the: Bak up on such request shail be cancelled.

Closing Date. Th: Cloiing Date is March 31, 2014,
13

 

_9.

SCHEDULE 2
A nortization Schedule

The following talile tets frth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total pricipal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“I1stallmer t Share™). If the proceeds of the L.oan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable sy he Forrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determinzd by the Bank b multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Pavment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, surh repay:ble amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in puragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

 

 

Installment Share
Principal Paymen Date (Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15 ¢nd I ly 15:
3eginning July 15, 2023 3.33%
through July 15,2737
On January 15, 2038 . 3.43%

 

If the proceeds of t7e Loan 1ave not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the priicipal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Pay nent Dat : shall be determined as follows:

(a) To the extant 1hat eny proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
thz first Prircipal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawr Lon Bi lance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
of this Schadule,

(b) Any amount withdiawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on zach Priicipal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amonts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of zact sucl withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installm :nt Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule fur ssid Ptincipal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”
and the denominatcr of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Sheres 15r Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
daie, such amo mts 1epayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
- 10-

amoutits r2ferrd to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversicn apy lies.

(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal 2ayment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
princi»al amouts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal aymr ent Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date fisllowing the date of withdrawal,

(b) Notwithstindir g the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any tire the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawzls mide after the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the piovisions of paragraphs | and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion ¢ f all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Curreniy, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Pricipal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall ve Jdeter nined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
curreacy of denoriinat on immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflzcts the amounts of .principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if tl e Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidzlines, th2 exchan ie rate component of the Screen Rate.

[f the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this S :hedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Cuirenc;, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amaunt
 

 

APPENDIX
Section I, Definitiyns
1. “Excluded Jixpendit re” means any expenditure:

(a) for gocds o services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Assnciztion 1as financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Assnciation 1as financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,

or grant;

(b) for poods in¢luded in the fol lowing groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1916) rthe HHITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the

 

 

 
   

  

  

 

Bor-ower:
I___: Gro Description of Item
112 Alcoholic beverages
121 Tobacco, un-manutactured,

 

 

tobacco refuse

 

1T

718.7

72843

Radioactive and associated

  
  

   
    

Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing

tobacco substitutes)

  
 

materials

Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked

Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors

Tobacco processing machine

     
   
   
 

 

 

 

8973

  
 

gold ores and concentrates

Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths® or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems
Gold, non-monetary (excluding

 
 
        

 
 

S12-

(@] for geods interded for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumpt om;

(d) for environmer tally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is proh bited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreemnen's to +vhich the Borrower is a party.

(e) on aciount of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations S:curi y Council taken under Chapter V11 of the Charter of the
United Nations and

H with resp:ct t which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collus ve or corrcive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borro'ver or ot ier recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or otier such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to t1e Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“Finacing Ajreement’ means the agreement belween the Borrower and the
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement; as
such agreemest way b> amended from time to time. “Financing Agreement™
incluces all appendices. schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing
Agrecment.

“General Confiticns” neans the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (General Zonditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012 with the
modifications :iet forth in Section 11 of this Appendix.

“Program” means the jrogram of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promate grow:h aid achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the lette dated May 30, 2013 from the Borrower to the Bank
declaring the Bor-owe ’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting ass'sfance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
execu:ion,

“Single Withdrawal Trinche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled *“3ingl: Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
Section 1f of Schecule | to this Agreement.

Section II. Modificatinns to the General Conditions

The modificat ons to thz: Gznera Conditions are as follows:

 

The lest senterice of pa-agraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted i its entirety.
- 13-

Sections 2.04 (Desigiatea Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety ard th: remaining Sections in Article 1! are renumbered
accordingly.

Sections 5.01 (Project Ex reution Generally). and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financicl Statements; Auits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Articlis V are r.:numbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of tiect on 5 05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Usz of Goo Is, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5,06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modifie 1 to read is follows:

“Section :1.06. Plais; Documents;: Records

. () Tte Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
ivoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan witil two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enat le the Bak’s representatives to examine such records,”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to -ead . s follows:

Section 5.)7. Prog. am Monitoring and Evaluation
%

(c) Th: Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bani: not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scose and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, o1 th: exccution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bink of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreemens and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

The following terins «nd d finitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, ard the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order o the Ajipendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a) The definiiion of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
follows:

““Lligible E xpenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put
in supoort f the Program, other than to finance expenditures
excludzd pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”
(b)

(c)

S 14-

The terr1 “F nancial Statements™ and its definition are deleted in their
entiraty.

The terry “Project” is modified to read “Program”™ and its definition is
modified to r2ad as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
thest: General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan
Agrecment in support of which the Loan is made,”
