Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8756-MA

Loan Agreement

(Second Capital Market Development and Small and Medium-Size Enterprise Finance
Development Policy Loan)

between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 16, 2017

 

 
 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8756-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated June 16, 2017, entered into between KINGDOM OF

MOROCCO (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide
this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (i) the actions which the Borrower has already
taken under the Program and which arc described in Section | of Schedule | to this
Agreement; and (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

L.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04

2.05.

ARTICLE | — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
an integral part of this Agrecment.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions st forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred fifty million Dollars,
($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this
Agreement (“Loan™).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section 11 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

The Front-cnd Fec payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest payable by the Borrower for cach Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, however, that the interest payable shall in no event be less than zero
percent (0%) per annum; and provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the intercst payable by the
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in

 
2.06.

2.07.

2.08.

2.09.

accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty
days, then the interest payable by the Bomrower shall instead be calculated as
provided in Section 3.02 (¢) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

(@

(b)

(c)

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B) all
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of
limits on the Variable Rate or the Refercnce Rate applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by
the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article [V of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Exccution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shail, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for
the purpose in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agrecment.

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section II of the Appendix to this
 

 

 

3.0t

4.01.

4.02.

5.01.

5.02.

Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Anticle Ii as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

ARTICLE Il — PROGRAM

The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its impiementation. To
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

(a) the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macrocconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

(b) prior 1o cach such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and

(<) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
Scction [ of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namcly that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macrocconomic policy
framework.

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Apgreement.

 

 

 
6.01.

6.02.

6.03.

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance,
The Bomrower's Address is:
Ministére de I’Economie et des Finances
Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable: Facsimile:
MINFIN 212-537-67-75-30/31
The Bank’s Address is:

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

Telex: Facsimile:

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
 

 

 

 

.5

AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above
written.

KINGDOM OF MORQCCO

/

By

/ +

Authorized Representative
Name: Mohamed Boussaid

Titte: Minister of Economy and Finance

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
SCHEDULE 1

Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section 1. Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

Improve access to finance for small and young enterprises

1.

The central bank (Bank Al-Maghrib), the credit guarantee agency (Caisse Centrale
de Garantie) and thec Moroccan banks association (Groupement Professionnel des
Bangues du Marac), have established a co-financing arrangement supporting the
financial restructuring of MSMEs.

The Head of the Government has established the conditions for paying value added
tax (VAT) credits to MSMEs.

The central bank (Bank Ai-Maghrib) has issued the license for a second credit
burcau that sets forth requirements to offer MSME credit scoring.

The two regulations (circulaires) implementing the provisions of Law No. 103-12
(the banking law) concerning providers of payment services, have been published
in the National Gazette (Bulletin Officiel) No. 6548, dated March 2, 2017.

Strengthen capital markets by improving the institutional framework and
broadening the range of instruments

5.

The board of the capital market authority (Awrorité Marocaine du Marché des
Capitaux) has appointed the members of its College of Sanction, and the Minister
of Finance has adopted the rulebook (Réglement Généraly of the capital market
authority.

Law No. 19-i4 on the stock exchange and investment advice has been published
in the National Gazette (Bulletin Officiel) No. 6552, dated March 16, 2017.

Law No. 70-14 on real estate investment trusts (organismes de placement collectif
immobilier), has been published in the National Gazette (Bulletin Officiel) No.
6552, dated March 16, 2017, and Decrce No. 2-16-1011 exempting real estate
investment trusts from corporate income tax, has been published in the National
Gagzette (Budletin Officiel) No. 6530 bis, dated December 31, 2016.
 

 

1.

Improve the financial sustainability of Caisse Marocaine des Retraites

8.

The laws setting forth the new parameters of the civil service pension fund (Caisse
Marocaine des Retraites) - Law No.71-14 amending Law No. 11-71 establishing
the civil service pension fund, and Law No. 72-14 amending Law No. 12-71,
setting the mandatory retirement age, have been published in the National Gazctte
(Bulletin Officiel) No 6496, dated September 1, 2016.

Strengthen oversight of the banking sector

9.

The central bank (Bank Al-Magrib) has transmitted on September 8, 2016, to banks
for consultation, the draft regulations on recovery planning to systemic banks
belonging to financial conglomerates in application of Article 79 of Law No. 103-
12 (banking law).

Section I1. Availability of Loan Praceeds

A.

General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the

Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

Allocations Amount of the Loan
Allocated
expressed in Dollars
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 349,125,000
(2) Front-end Fee 875,000

(3) Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c) of this
TOTAL AMOUNT 350,000,000

Agreement
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisficd: (a) with the Program being
carricd out by the Borrower, and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's
macroeconomic policy framework.

      
      
    

 
       
   
 

 

 

 
E.

Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwisc agree:

L

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
a dedicated account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Bank; and

the Borrower shall ensure that upen each deposit of an ameunt of the Loan
into this account: (a) an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and (b) a confirmation in writing of such operation is sent to the
Bank.

Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:

1.

have the account referred to in Section IL.D.1 above audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank;

furnish to the Bank as soon as availabie, but in any case not later than four
(4) months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall rcasonably request; and

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account referred
to in Section IL.D.! above and its audit as the Bank shall rcasonably
request.

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any
time that an amount of the Loan was uscd to make a payment for an Excluded
Expenditure, the Borrawer shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to
the Bank upon such request shall be canceiled.

Closing Date. The Closing Date is April 30, 2018.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.

SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date (“Instaliment Share™). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal
Payment Date; by (b) the Instaliment Share for cach Principal Payment Date, such
repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to
in paragraph 4 of this Schedulc, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

Installment Share
Principal Payment Date (Expressed as a Percentage)

On cach February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2022,
through August 15, 2041

On February 15, 2042

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principa! Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

          

(a) To the extent that any procecds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph | of this
Schedule.

(b) Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Datc shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling afier the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Instament Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.

 

 

 

 

 
(a) Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposcs solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the sccond Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawai.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a duc date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs ! and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Cumency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

if the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply scparately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to praduce a separate amortization schedule for each
such amount.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX

Section 1. Definitions

“Excluded Expenditure™ means any expenditure:

(a) for goods or services supplicd under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agrccd to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Serics M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

p g

[~ —  TAlcoholicbeverages |

Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse

| Group|
IV
AT
or not containing tobacco
subsmutcs)
T e
materials
stones, unworked or worked
A Nuclear reactors, and parts

thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
non-irmadiated, for nuclear

    
   
        
   
     
   

  

     
       
     
     

    

reactors
728.43

 
 

897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (cxcept watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or

silversmiths’ wares (including set

971 Gold, non-monetary (excluding

gold ores and concentrates)

 

 

 

 
12-

{c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;

(d) for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

() on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and

[¢3] with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

“General Conditions” means the “Intemnational Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

“MSME" mean micro, small and medium enterprise.

“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote a dynamic and competitive private sector by modemnizing the role of
finance, including enhancing access to finance for small and young firms,
strengthening capital markets, and modifying the mix of bank and market
financing, while safeguarding financial stability, and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated April 17, 2017, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” mecans the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche™ in the table set forth in Part B of
Section [l of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section 1. Modifications to the General Conditions

™

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows:

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
 

1
:
i
i

H
i
1

 

 

 

 

 

 

-13-

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.

Section 3.01.  (Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fec on the Loan amount at
the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end Fec™).

(3] The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement
(the “Commitment Charge™). The Commitment Charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days afier the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts are withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan
Account or cancelled. The Commitment Charge shall be payable semi-
annually in arrears on each Payment Date.”

Scctions 5.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the subsequent
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Scction 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entircty.

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph S above)
is modified to read as follows:

“Scction 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

. {c©) The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, reccipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 5 above)
is modificd to read as follows:

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

{©) The Borrower shall prepare, or causc to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan

 

 
10.

Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

In the Appendix, Definitions, all references to Section numbers and paragraphs
are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modifications set forth above.

The Appendix is modified by inserting a new paragraph 19 with the following
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and rcnumbering the remaining paragraphs
accordingly:

“19.  “Commitment Charge” means the commitment charge specified in the
Loan Agrecment for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).”

Renumbered paragraph 37 (originally paragraph 36) of the Appendix (“Eligible
Expenditure™) is modified to read as follows:

“37.  “Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Loan is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement.” )

Renumbered paragraph 44 (originally paragraph 43) of the Appendix (“Financial
Statements™) is deleted in its entirety.

In paragraph 48 of the Appendix, the definition of “Front-end Fee™ is modified by
replacing the reference to Section 3.01 with Section 3.01 (a).

In paragraph 67 of the Appendix, the definition of the term “Loan Payment” is
modified to read as follows:

“67.  “Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.”

In paragraph 72 of the Appendix, the definition of “Payment Date” is modified by
deleting the word “is” and inserting the words “and Commitment Charge are” after
the word “interest”.
-15-

The defined term “Project” in paragraph 75 of the Appendix is modified to read
“Program” and its definition is modified to read as follows (and all references to
“Project™ throughout these General Conditions arc deemed to be references to
“Program™):

“75. “Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made.”

 

 
