Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 8977-TR

Loan Agreement

(Disaster Risk Management in Schools Project)

between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

1.01.

1.02.

2.01.

2.02.

2.03.

2.04.

2.05.

2.07.

3.01.

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form
part of this Agreement.

Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IT — LOAN

The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower two hundred sixty-seven million six hundred
thousand Euros (EUR 267,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project™).

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Fixed Spread or such rate as may apply
following a Conversion; subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions.

The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE III — PROJECT

The Borrower, through its Ministry of National Education (“MoNE”), declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the Borrower, through MoNE,
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions, and Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the Borrower
has adopted a Project Operations Manual acceptable to the World Bank.

4.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the Signature
Date.

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
5.01. The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Treasury and Finance.
5.02.  For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower’s address is:
Hazine ve Maliye Bakanligi
Inonu Bulvari No. 36
Emek — Ankara
Republic of Turkey; and
(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is:

Facsimile:

(90) (312) 204-7366
(90) (312) 204-7367

5.03.  For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank’s address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America; and

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is:

Telex: Facsimile:
248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
64145(MCI)
AGREED as of the Signature Date.

REPUBLIC ORTURKEY

w.

\Acting Di clor General

  
   

  

Title:
08 AUL 2019

Date:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Y

Authorized Representative

Name: A\A%& 1 gﬁ Tano Kouame

Title: ) scector—

Date: 8 &,_.8, ~ Q ﬂ
Part 1.

Part 2.

SCHEDULE 1

Project Description

The objective of the Project is to increase the safety of students, teachers, and staff in
selected schools in high-risk seismic zones in Turkey.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Improving Seismic Resilience of Schools

(a)

(b)

(©

(d)

Reconstruction of Schools.

(i) Reconstruction of selected schools in high seismic risk provinces in the
Borrower’s territory, using design standards acceptable to the Bank that
relate to, inter alia, accessibility, flexibility, adaptability, learning, and
environmentally friendly materials.

(ii) Provision of modern equipment to complement the learning environment.

Retrofitting of Schools. Retrofitting for seismic strengthening of selected schools
in high seismic risk provinces in the Borrower’s territory.

Seismic Risk Assessments. Conducting of additional seismic risk assessments,
including development or refinement of technical specifications to be used, land
analysis, geotechnical surveys, design and design review, and supervision of
construction works.

Communications. Carrying out of a communications campaign to publicize to the
broader school communities the long-term benefits of said retrofitting and
reconstruction activities, and school-based disaster risks.

Enhancing Institutional and Technical Capacity for Safer Schools

Provision of technical assistance to enhance the engineering and analytical capacity of the
Construction and Real Estate Department (“CRED”), including:

(2)

(b)

(©)

development of additional modules or layers of information for MoNE’s
geographic information system on hazard information and risk assessment, and
prioritization of investment planning;

provision of structural performance analysis of MoNE’s school designs before and
after retrofitting to determine the added value of planned interventions;

preparation of cost-benefit analysis on retrofitting and reconstruction for various
school typologies, and analysis of alternative retrofitting methods for specific
school designs;
Part 3.

(d)

(e)

®

(8

(h)

preparation of damage and loss estimation and development of typical recovery
and repair designs based on selected scenarios for various school typologies;

improvement of the minimum design criteria for school buildings, and
development of standards and regulations to prevent non-structural damages;

carrying out of climate vulnerability assessment to identify risks and adaption
measures;

carrying out of research on innovative technologies to improve efficiency of new
constructions and retrofits; and

enhancement and further development of CRED’s capacity to detect, monitor and
address Project implementation requirements, including, inter alia, quality
assurance, occupational health and safety, and site-level monitoring.

Project Management

Provision of goods, consulting services, non-consulting services, and Operating Costs to
build capacity and support CRED in carrying out the Project and in Project management,
including in the areas of procurement, financial management, disbursement, environmental
and social safeguards compliance, and monitoring and evaluation, including data
collection, and implementation assessments.
SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section 1. Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements.
1. The Borrower, through MoNE, shall be responsible for the overall implementation,

management, coordination and oversight of the Project, including, inter alia:

(a)

(b)

providing policy oversight, stewardship and working level coordination with
concerned governmental agencies and regional authorities;

maintaining, within CRED, the Project Implementation Unit (“PIU”), throughout
Project implementation, under terms of reference, and with adequate staffing, and
with qualifications and functions all acceptable to the Bank; and

ensuring that the PIU, throughout Project implementation, consistently: (i) applies
the requirements and procedures set forth in the Project Operations Manual
(“POM”), including the requirements, criteria, policies, procedures and
organizational arrangements detailed in the POM; (ii) carries out the procurement
process, financial management and preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Project; and (iii) monitors and evaluates the progress of Project implementation
in accordance with indicators agreed upon with the Bank.

B. Project Operations Manual.

1. The Borrower, through MoNE, shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, a POM,
acceptable to the Bank, that shall consist of different schedules setting forth rules, methods,
guidelines, specific development plans, standard documents and procedures for the
carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia, provisions on the following:

(2)

(b)

(©)

(d)

(e)

the detailed description of all Project activities supported under this Agreement,
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks in relation thereto;

the parties responsible for carrying out the respective parts of the Project;
the detailed qualification and selection criteria and processes, as relevant, for the
respective parts of the Project, including specifically the criteria acceptable to the

Bank for the selection of schemes under Part 1 of the Project;

the safeguards instruments and arrangements, including the grievance redress
mechanism, for the Project;

the financial management arrangements for the Project as set forth in a financial
management manual portion of the POM;
) the coordination arrangements between the relevant parties for the day-to-day
execution of the Project; and

(2) Project monitoring, evaluation, reporting, and communications.

The Borrower, through MoNE, shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried
out, in accordance with the arrangements, procedures and guidelines set out in the POM,
provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and procedures
set out in the POM and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement
shall prevail.

The POM, or any provision thereof, shall not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived,
or permitted to be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, without the prior consent of
the Bank; the POM may only be amended in consultation with, and after approval of, the
Bank. In case of any conflict between the terms of the POM and those of this Agreement,
the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Safeguards.

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through MoNE, shall ensure that:

(a) the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental
and Social Management Framework (“ESMF”), and that the ESMF, or any
provision thereof, shall not be assigned, amended, abrogated or waived, without
the prior approval of the Bank;

(b) prior to the issuance of the bidding documents for any works contract, prepare and
submit to the Bank for its approval (i) the proposed design and site for the works
and the Environmental and Social Management Plan (“ESMP”) in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) the draft contract for such works to
ensure that the provisions of the ESMF and ESMP(s) are adequately included in
the related contract;

(c) any contractor carrying out civil works under the Project shall perform such work
in accordance with the technical and environmental practices applicable to the
Project, as set forth in the ESMF and ESMP(s), and under terms of reference and
with qualifications and experience necessary to satisfactorily carry out the design
and construction of the Project, and all of which shall be acceptable to the Bank;

(d) any contracts for civil works under the Project include Codes of Conduct in form
and substance acceptable to the Bank;

(e) (i) all activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out the Project comply with
environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, as set forth in the
ESMF, including the preparation of the relevant ESMP(s), as applicable,
(ii) ensure that the selection of any works under the Project is done in accordance
with the provisions of the ESMP(s), and (iii) ensure the complete implementation

7
of the ESMF and ESMP(s), all in a manner acceptable to the Bank, including all
necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental
impacts caused by the implementation of the Project;

) all sites selected for the carrying out of civil works under the Project shall
(i) involve no land acquisition that includes or may result in Involuntary
Resettlement, and (ii) be on land plots that (A) are already in the legal possession
of the Borrower, and (B) neither involve nor will involve Involuntary
Resettlement; and

(2 the Bank is immediately informed of any circumstances that have arisen or that
may arise concerning (i) the Borrower’s legal possession of a proposed or selected
site, or (ii) the possibility of Involuntary Resettlement on a proposed or selected
site, recognizing that civil works carried out under such circumstances are not
eligible for Bank financing under this Agreement.

2. The Borrower, through MoNE, shall ensure that the terms of reference for any consultancy
in respect of any activity under the Project are satisfactory to the Bank following its review
thereof and, to that end, such terms of reference shall duly incorporate the requirements of
the World Bank’s Safeguard Policies then in force, as applied to the advice conveyed
through such technical assistance.

3 The Borrower, through MoNE, shall:

(a) as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than five (5) business days after the
occurrence of a Significant Event, inform the Bank by any electronic means of the
nature of the incident, accident, or circumstance and any effect or impact (whether
on-site or off-site) resulting therefrom;

(b) as soon as reasonably practicable, but no later than thirty (30) business days after
such Significant Event, provide the Bank with a summary report that includes a
description of such Significant Event, and the measures, if any, that the Borrower
is taking or plans to take to address such Significant Event and to prevent any
future similar event; and

(c) keep the Bank informed of the on-going implementation of the said measures and
plans.

Section I Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower, through MoNE, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar semester.

Section IIIL Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. General.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in
accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter, the Borrower may
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures; and (b) pay each
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if
applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the following table:

 

    
   
 
 
 
 
      

 

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated to be financed
(expressed in EUR) (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, non- 267,600,000 100%

consulting services,
consulting services, and
Operating Costs for the
Project
(2) Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar
remium

Amount due pursuant to
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

          

 

 

 

TOTAL AMOUNT 267,600,000
B. Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.
1 Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made for payments

made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed thirteen million three hundred and eighty thousand Euros (EUR 13,380,000) may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 1, 2018, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category (1).

2. The Closing Date is December 31, 2024.
SCHEDULE 3
Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment Share”).

Level Principal Repayments
| Principal Payment Date | Installment Share
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2025
through July 15, 2029 9.09%
[ On January 15, 2030 | 9.10%

 

 
APPENDIX

1.

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006,
and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016.

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

“Codes of Conduct” means the codes of conduct referred to in Section 1.C.1 (d) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, detailing, inter alia, measures on environment, health and
safety, and preventing and responding to matters of violence (e.g., gender-based, and
against minors).

“Construction and Real Estate Department” or “CRED” means the Construction and Real
Estate Department of the Ministry of National Education, or any legal successor or
successors of CRED thereto.

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated
December 14, 2018.

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the
Environmental and Social Management Framework prepared by the Borrower and
disclosed by the Borrower on its website on April 1, 2019, and in the Bank’s website on
April 1, 2019, which framework sets forth, inter alia, policies and procedures for
(a) screening of proposed Project activities, (b) preparation of environmental assessment
and environment management plans therefor, (c) consultation and disclosure, and
(d) monitoring and reporting during the implementation of the Project, as said framework
may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.

“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means an environmental and
social management plan prepared for each relevant province that includes all site-specific
information for that province, and that is prepared in accordance with the ESMF and the
provisions of Section I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank,
and giving details the specific actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate the
achievement of the objective of the ESMF.

“Involuntary Resettlement” means any direct economic and social impact caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets, and (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction
of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on
the livelihoods of such person.
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

“Ministry of National Education” or “MoNE” means the Borrower’s ministry of the same
name or any legal successor or successors thereto.

“Operating Costs” means necessary and reasonable incremental expenses directly incurred
by the PIU in Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office
supplies, office rental, publication of procurement notices, vehicle rental, office and
equipment maintenance and repair, communication, translation and interpretation services,
travel and supervision costs, subscription to publications and databases, publication fees,
ownership of intellectual property rights, and other miscellaneous expenses, all within a
budget and work plan satisfactory to the World Bank.

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated
July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018.

“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project implementation unit, referred
to in Section I.A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor or successors
thereto, acceptable to the Bank.

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the operations manual for the Project
acceptable to the Bank, referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the
said manual may be amended from time to time, with the prior written approval of the
World Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the POM.

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan
Agreement” in the General Conditions.

“Significant Event” means: (a) any significant social, labor, health and safety, security or
environmental incident, accident, or circumstance involving the Project, including, without
limitation, explosions, spills, and any workplace accidents that result in death, serious or
multiple injury, material pollution, or any violent labor unrest or dispute between the
Borrower or security forces (assigned to protect the Project) and local communities; or
(b) any other event or circumstance having, or which could reasonably be expected to have,
a material adverse effect on the implementation or operation of the Project in accordance
with the ESMF and ESMPs.

“World Bank’s Safeguard Policies” means the World Bank’s operational policies and
procedures set forth in the World Bank’s operational manual under Operational Policies
and Bank Procedures 4.01, 4.04, 4.09. 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.36, and 4.37, as said manual is
published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

12
