CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3102 BR

Loan Agreement

(Water Sector Project in the State of Sao Paulo)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE
SAO PAULO-SABESP

Dated February 16, 1990

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3102 BR

AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 

AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO 
PAULO-SABESP (the Borrower).

WHEREAS (A) The Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor), the State of Sao 

Paulo (the State), the Departamento de Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DAEE) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;

(B)

by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

(C)

by an agreement (the Shareholders Agreement) of even date herewith 

between the Bank and the State and DAEE, the State and DAEE have agreed to undertake 
certain obligations with regard to  the execution of the Project and the performance 
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)
this Agreement;

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

"Tariff Law" means Law No. 6,528 of the Guarantor, dated May 11,  1978, 
published in Diario Oficial of May 12, 1978, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

(b)

(c)

"Subproject" means a specific water supply or sewerage project  

consisting of one or more of the following: (i) construction, expansion or improvement 
of water supply or sewerage systems for urban areas; (ii) construction of sewerage 
treatment plants in selected cities; (iii)  construction of water and sewerage house 
connections and acquisition and installation of water meters; (iv) installation of 
production metering equipment and execution of leak detection programs; (v) 
acquisition of operational equipment; and (vi) designing of water supply or sewerage 
systems, including provision of recruiting engineering and consulting services;

(d)

"free-limit Subproject" means a Subproject to be carried out in a city 

with a population smaller than 200,000, as so defined, the estimated total investment 
cost of which shall not exceed the sum of $4,000,000 equivalent, which fully meets the 
Eligibility Criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and which shall be 
subject to review and approval by the Bank on an ex post basis;

(e)

"Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject which has been approved by  the 
Bank after reviewing the information to be provided by the Borrower on such Subproject 
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement or a free-limit Subproject for which 
the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of the 
information provided by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;

(f)

"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 

AFRMM, the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law l,142  of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 
1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may substitute it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988;

(g)

"Letter of Agreement" means the Agreement between the State and the 

Borrower, referred to in Section 7.01 of this Agreement, which sets forth the 
Borrower’s rolling five year investment program ("Plano Minimo") and the respective 
financial and technical obligations of the State and the Borrower in the carrying out 
of such investment program, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank; and

(h)
Agreement.

"LRMC Study" means the study referred to in Section 3.05 of this 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various  currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred eighty million 
dollars ($280,000,000), being the sum of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal 
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a)The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special account in Banco Central do Brasil on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.

(c)

For purposes of this Section:

 

(i)

"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 

in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 

Agreement is signed.

(ii)

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 

the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 

as reasonably determined by the Bank.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

date specified 
Interest Period in which this 
 

borrowings of 
a percentage per annum, 
 

a calendar 
 

year.

15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, ecological, sanitation and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 

Agreement.

Section 3.03. (a) When presenting a Subproject (other than a free-limit 

Subproject) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) an 
appraisal of the Subproject, including the economic evaluation set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement and a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the 
Eligibility Criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, including in the case 
of dams specific safety, ecological and resettlement plans, and (iii) such other  
information as the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.

(b)

Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subproject shall contain:  (i) a summary 
description of the Subproject, including the economic evaluation and technical 
criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.

Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 

Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) carry out with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate practices the dam safety, environmental protection and 
resettlement plans included in Subprojects which contain the construction, expansion 
or improvement of dams,  reservoirs or other flow control structures; and (b) provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the purpose.

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1990  furnish to 

the Bank a copy of the findings and recommendations of its study on the structure of 
its tariffs and the long-run marginal cost of its water supply and sewerage services; 
(b) allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and 
recommendations; and (c) put into effect such recommendations which are acceptable to 
the Bank and the Borrower.

Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 

General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than November 30 each year, 
starting not later than November 30,  1990, prepare and furnish to the Bank a general 
financial projection (as required under Article V of this Agreement) for the following 
five years (including the monitoring of own cash contributions to total investment 
program, as stipulated in the Letter of Agreement) and the Borrower’s detailed 
investment plan (including but not limited to investments under the Project) for the 
following calendar year; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than September 
30 and March 31 of each year, starting not later than September 30, 1990, a report of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request (including monitoring 
indicators satisfactory to the Bank) on the execution of the Project and the 
compliance by the Borrower, the State and DAEE of their respective obligations under 
this Agreement, the Shareholders Agreement and the Letter of Agreement.

(b)

The Borrower shall carry out each investment plan referred to in 

paragraph (a) (i) of this Section with due diligence and efficiency and,  unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend any such plan or any part thereof by more 
than 20% of its total expected cost, as set forth in such plan. 

Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out its obligations under the Letter 

of Agreement with due diligence and efficiency; (b) take all action required on its 
part to update annually the investment program and other obligations therein contained 
in terms satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
amend or concur in any action that would have the effect of amending or abrogating the 
Letter of Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out not later than December 31, 

1991, a study including a detailed assessment of the degree of treatment required for 
sewerage effluents in the territories of the State, the benefits and costs thereof, 
and the sources of revenues to meet the investments recommended thereunder and their 
operational costs; (b) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank a copy of the 
findings and recommendations of such study; and (c) allow the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on such findings and recommendations.

Section 3.09. Without limiting the generality of Section 9.08 of the General 

Conditions, the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the 
dams, reservoirs and water control schemes constructed under the Project to be 
periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to 
determine whether there are any  deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or 
in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which 
may endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Bank 
appropriate arrangements for the Bank’s review no later than one year before the 
expected completion of such structures.

Section 3.10. Not later than December 15 of each year, the Borrower shall 

exchange views with the Bank on the execution of the Project, the Borrower’s 
investment program and financial forecasts for the following calendar year and its 
performance under, and the updating of, the Letter of Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Management and Operations of the Borrower

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its 

affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, sanitation, 
public utility and ecological practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

(b)

The Borrower shall continue its practice of carrying out economic  

feasibility studies on the basis of criteria substantially similar to those  set forth 
in paragraph I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to select design and carry out 
investments other than those included in the Project.

Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 

machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time  promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.

Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 

insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

Section 4.04. In order to improve its operational efficiency, the Borrower 

shall: (a) reduce unaccounted-for water to no more than 22% of total production by 
December 31, 1993 and thereafter and (b) increase the number of consumers per employee 
to 235 by December 31, 1993 and thereafter.

ARTICLE V

Financial Covenants

Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 

reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its  operations and financial 
condition, including separate accounts to reflect all resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

(i)

have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 

statements of income and expenses and related 

sheets, 
statements) and the records and 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
acceptable to the Bank;

accounts for the Special Account for 

with appropriate auditing 

auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
copies of its financial 
(B) the report of such audit by 
detail as the Bank shall have 

months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 

statements for such year as so audited; and 

said auditors, of such scope and in such 

reasonably requested; and

records, accounts 
as the Bank shall from 
 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 

and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 

time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

records and 
 

(i)

maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 

accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

Section 5.02.(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 

produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1990, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total operating 
expenses; (ii) dividends; (iii) debt service requirements; and (iv) at least 32% of 
expenditures incurred and expected to be incurred under, or related to, the Project 
during such year or a provision for depreciation on a straight-line based on the 
useful lives of depreciable assets in operation (quotas de depreciacao), or other 
basis acceptable to the Bank, whichever is greater.

(b)

Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 

the basis of forecasts by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion.

(c)

If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the  

requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall take  all necessary measures (including, inter alia, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates)  in order to meet such 
requirements. 

(d)

For purposes of this Section:

(i)
revenues and net 
 

sources related to 
 

The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 

non-operating income.

(ii)

The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 

operations.

(iii) The  term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:

(A)

revenues from all sources other than those related to 

operations; and

incurred in 
 

operations 
maintenance, 

(B)

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 

the generation of revenues in (A) above.

(iv)

The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 

(despesas de exploracao), including administration, adequate 

taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision 

 

 

 

for bad debts (provisao 
amortization of capitalized operating costs 
despesas), but excluding interest and other charges on debt.

Sara devedores duvidosos) and 

amortizacoes de 

repayments 
(other than 
 

(v)

The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 

(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 

capitalized interest) and other charges on, debt.

(vi)

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 

terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 

valuation shall be made on the basis of the 

value, in 
another currency, such 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.

at which such other currency is, 
the purposes of servicing 
basis of a rate of 

Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 65 to 35 in fiscal year 1990 and than 60 to 40 in fiscal year 
1991 and thereafter.

(b)

For purposes of this Section:

 

its terms 
incurred.

(i)

The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 

(ii)

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 

agreement or 
modification of its terms 
the amount of such debt has become 
contract, agreement or instrument; (B) under a 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
into.

of payment, on the date, and to the extent, 

outstanding pursuant to such 

guarantee agreement 
been entered 

capital, 
allocated to cover specific 
 

(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 

liabilities.

(iv)

Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 

terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 

valuation shall be made on the basis of the 

value, in 
another currency, such 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.

at which such other currency is, 
the purposes of servicing 
basis of a rate of 

Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 

not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the 
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the 
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 

 

its terms 
incurred.

(ii)

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 

agreement or 
modification of its terms 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
the date the agreement providing for such 
entered into.

of payment on the date of such contract, 

under a guarantee agreement, on 
guarantee has been 

(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference between:

(A)

the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 

non-operating income; and

administration, 
lieu of taxes, but 
other non-cash operating charges 
debt.

(B)

the sum of all expenses related to operations including 

adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
excluding provision for depreciation, 

and interest and other charges on 

(iv)

The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:

(A)

revenues from all sources other than related to operations; 

 

and net 
 

 

and

incurred in 
 

repayments 
interest other than 
on, debt.

(B)

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 

the generation of revenues in (A) above.

(v)

The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 

(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 

capitalized interest) and other charges 

(vi)

The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the 

which both the Bank and the Borrower accept as 

Borrower not 
debt in question, 
reasonable and as to which the 
acceptability, provided that no event 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected 
to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or 
operating results of the Borrower.

Bank has notified the Borrower of its 
has occurred since such 

in the future 
future 

(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 

terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 

valuation shall be made on the basis of the 

value, in 
another currency, such 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.

at which such other currency is, 
the purposes of servicing 
basis of a rate of 

Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out: (i) under terms of reference 

satisfactory to the Bank and not later than June 30, 1990, a study on the amount and 
fiscal implications of a fixed assets revaluation on the basis of current replacement 
costs and useful assets life; and (ii) every year thereafter, similar studies 
satisfactory to the Bank.

(b)

The Borrower shall: (i) in its fiscal year ending on December 31,  1990 

revalue its assets in accordance with the methods of valuation recommended by the 
study carried out pursuant to paragraph (a) (i) of this  Section, such methods to be 
consistently applied in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) update in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank such asset revaluation as recommended by the studies referred 
to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, but not less frequently than every four 
years.

Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to: (a) reduce its 

accounts receivable comparator to 92, 84, 78 and 70 days by the end of each of the 
years 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively; (b) not later than December 31, 1990, 
make adjustments in real terms on all overdue bills, or take equivalent or additional 
measures which may be required, to reduce the financial losses resulting from such 
overdue bills; and (c) ensure that starting in fiscal year 1991 as a minimum, the 
average days receivable shown in (a) above apply on an individual basis to all bulk 
municipal consumers.

For purposes of this Section:

(i)

"accounts receivables comparator" means year-end accounts 

receivable from 
multiplied by 365 divided by year-end 
 

operations as measures by overdue bills 

operating revenues;

(ii)

"overdue bills" means bills for water and sewerage operation which 

unpaid for more than 15 days after the date of issuance;

are due and 
 

operate their 
own consumer services; 
 

index of 
IPC) as published by the 
 

(iii) "bulk municipal consumers" means all municipal consumers which 

own water distribution systems, and administer their 

and

(iv)

"real terms" means no less than inflation, as measured by the 

consumers prices (In dice de Precos ao Consumidor - 

Fundacao Getulio Vargas.

ARTICLE VI

Remedies of the Bank

Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the State or DAEE shall have failed to perform any of their respective 

obligations under the Shareholders Agreement; and

(b)

the Tariff Law shall have been repealed or amended, or substituted by any 
other State or Federal law, to an extent which, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
shall adversely affect the financial condition or the operations of, or the adjustment 
of the rates for water supply or sewerage services by, the Borrower.

Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 30 days after notice thereof, shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.

ARTICLE VII

Effective Date; Termination

Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central do 

(b)

that the Letter of Agreement has been executed on behalf of the State and 

Brasil; and

the Borrower.

Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central do 

Brasil;

(b)

that the Shareholders Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified on 

behalf of the State and DAEE and is legally binding upon the State and DAEE in 
accordance with its terms; and

(c)

that the Letter of Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified on 
behalf of the State and the Borrower and is legally binding upon the State and the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.

Section 7.03. The date May 16, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 

Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VIII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 

the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

440098 (ITT)
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)

For the Borrower:

Companhia de Saneamento Basico de
   Sao Paulo - SABESP
Rua Costa Carvalho, 300
Pinheiros, Sao Paulo
CEP 05429
Brazil

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

Telex:

011-21089

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ S. Shahid Husain

COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO
   DE SAO PAULO-SABESP

Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean

By /s/ Lauro Pericles Goncalves
By /s/ Gastao Cesar Bierrenbach

SCHEDULE 1

Authorized Representatives

Withdrawal of the Proceeds

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                  Amounts of the
                  Loan Allocated        % of
                   (Expressed in        Expenditures
   Category     Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1) Works           165,400,000         100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
                                        43% of local
                                        expenditures

(2) Goods             77,200,000        100% of foreign
                                        expenditures,
                                        43% of local
                                        expenditures
                                        (ex-factory cost)
                                        and 43% of local
                                        expenditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3) Consultants’        5,300,000       85% of local
   services                             expenditures
                                        for services of
                                        consultants
                                        domiciles within
                                        the territory of
                                        the Guarantor,
                                        and 100% of for-
                                        eign expenditures
                                        for services of
                                        other consultants

(4) Training              200,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures

(5) Unallocated        31,900,000

        TOTAL         280,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1989; and (b)  expenditures under a Subproject 
unless it is an Eligible Subproject pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve environmental and health 
conditions in urban areas of the State through improved and expanded water service and 
waste water disposal; (ii) to optimize the allocation of scarce sector resources 
through better planning, marginal cost analysis and pricing; (iii) to improve the 
Borrower’s operational efficiency and financial condition; (iv) to support Brazil’s 
decentralization efforts by supporting State investments and development; (v) to 
assist in the  development of new investment strategies to implement projects with 
high social content; and (vi) to develop and improve safety and environmental 
protection measures in water and sewerage projects.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:
 

Part B:
 

Subprojects

Institutional Development

Execution of Eligible Subproject, in the territories of the State. 

Acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials and provision of 

technical assistance and training to further the institutional and  operational 
development of the Borrower in the following areas:

Macro and micro meeting

Customer services and technical and users’ cadastre

Pitometry

Planning and operational control

Billing and collection and commercial systems

Rehabilitation of water distribution system

Sewerage effluent disposal studies.

The project is expected to be completed December 31, 1993

* * * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

 
On each March 15 and September 15

beginning September 15, 1994
through March 15, 2004

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)

$14,000,000

Premiums on Prepayment

The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 

General Conditions:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance

1.
 
2.
 
3.
 
4.
 
5.
 
6.
 
7.
 

 

 

outstanding on the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years

before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not

more than 13 years
before maturity

More than 13 years before

maturity

0.20

0.40

0.73

0.87

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Procurement of Goods and Works

International Competitive Bidding

Section I.
 
Part A:
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and contracts for goods 
shall be grouped in bid packages to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000  or more and 
$250,000 or more, respectively.  

Part B:
 

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 

A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:

All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  indicate any 

1.
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.

2.
groups:

After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 

(1)

Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of 

have 
such goods contain 
the value of the complete 
 

goods.

(2)

Group B: bids offering any other goods.

In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 

 
3.
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 

it shall be selected for the award.

If, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 

4.
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the  importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other imported taxes, 
or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, 
shall be selected for the award.

Part C:
 

Other Procurement Procedures

Civil works estimated to cost less than theequivalent of $5,000,000 and  goods 

estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,  in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, up to aggregate amounts not to exceed 
$230,000,000 equivalent for civil works and $12,000,000 equivalent for goods 
respectively.

Part D:
 
1.
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

(a)

With respect to the first two contracts for civil works and the first two 

contracts for goods to be procured pursuant to Part C of this  Schedule and each 
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more and 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the special 
Account in respect of such contract.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 

to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 

2.
to the Guidelines.

Part E:
 

Other

other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.

Section II.
 

Employment of Consultants

For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "custom duties and 

In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of the Project, the Borrower 

shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 

employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account, such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and 

furnish to 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
said documents and other evidence to have been made out of the Special 

this Schedule for the payment or 

other evidence required 

Borrower, withdraw 
such amount 

by 

requested. On the basis of 

Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent  amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment  entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 6

Subproject Eligibility Criteria

Subprojects shall comply with the following conditions:

(a)

Each Subproject must have been included by the Borrower in the updated 

Letter of Agreement accepted by the Bank.

Subprojects shall be the least-cost solution. 

I.
 

 

(b)

(c)

Water supply Subprojects to be carried out in cities with  populations 

greater than 50,000 shall have average water rates equal to or higher that 75% of the 
long-run average incremental cost of providing services through a minimum diameter 
water connection.

(d)

Sewerage Subprojects, or water supply. Subprojects to be carried out in 

cities with populations of less than 50,000 shall have average water (or average 
sewerage) rates equal to or higher than 60% of the long-run average incremental cost 
of providing services through a minimum diameter connection.

(e)

Subprojects or group of Subprojects to be carried out in communities with 

populations of less than 5.000 shall comply with (d) above for each individual 
community or for the group.

(f)

Subprojects not meeting the criteria set forth herein shall be redesigned 

to lower acceptable standards or carried out in stages. If the Subproject does not 
fulfill the criteria after it has been redesigned, it shall be eligible for Bank 
financing only if a satisfactory social and economic justification is furnished to the 
Bank.

(g)

Calculations of long-run average incremental costs for Subproject 

acceptability and for least-cost analysis, shall use an annual discount rate equal to 
the opportunity cost of capital (10%) or another value agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank. 

II.
expansion of dams, reservoirs or water flow control schemes:

Additional Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects including the construction or 

(a)
the State.

Execution of an environmental impact report acceptable to the Bank and 

(b)

Execution of relocation studies, including detailed resettlement plans, 

satisfactory to the Bank and the State.

(c)

Execution of safety studies, including specific action plans, 

satisfactory to the Bank and the State.

(d)

Appointment of panel of independent safety and environmental experts, 

with terms of reference and qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and 
the State, to be retained until the completion of the Subproject.

