CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3384 BUL

(Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project)

REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated July 22, 1991

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3384 BUL

AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Borrower has contracted and intends to further contract from European 
Community (EC) grants to support its economic development programs and has agreed with 
the EC to allocate out of the proceeds of said grants an amount equivalent to about 
$13,000,000 (the EC Grant) to assist in financing the Project, on the terms and 
conditions set forth in agreements (the EC Grant Agreements) entered, or to be 
entered, into between the Borrower and EC;

(C)

the Know How Fund for Eastern Europe established by the Government of the 

United Kingdom has agreed to assist the Borrower in financing the Project through the 
provision of advisory and expert services required for the carrying out of the 
Project; and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

(k)

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 
 

"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 

withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3, of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"PCC" means the Project Coordinating Committee established by the Council 

of Ministers of the Borrower pursuant to a Protocol Decision dated June 10, 1991;

(b)

"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established within the 

Borrower’s Ministry of Finance pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

"BNB" means the Bulgarian National Bank;

"MITS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Trade and Services;

"MESS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Employment and Social Security;

"MSHE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Science and Higher Education;

"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;

"MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;

"MFER" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations;

"AEPD" means the Borrower’s Agency for Economic Programming and 

Development established within the Borrower’s Council of Ministers pursuant to Decree 
No. 79 issued by the Council of Ministers on May 3, 1991;

(l)

"CNA" means the Borrower’s Council of Normative Acts established pursuant 

to Protocol No. 2 issued by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers on January 5, 1991;

(m)

"PA" means the Borrower’s Privatization Agency established pursuant to 

Decree No. 16 issued by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers on February 8, 1991;

(n)

"Committee on Energy" means the Committee established pursuant to 

Ordinance No. 2604 issued by the State Council of the Borrower on November 22, 1989;

(o)

"DMC" means the Debt Management Committee, an interministerial committee, 

established pursuant to Decision No. 4 issued by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers 
of January 16, 1991;

(p)

"CSO" means the Borrower’s Central Statistics Office established by 

Ordinance No. 626 issued by the State Council of the Borrower on February 25, 1986;

(q)

"Bulgargas" means the Borrower’s state enterprise reponsible for the 

procurement, sale and distribution of natural gas established pursuant to Court 
Registration No. 115, dated March 15, 1990, in the City Court of Sofia;

(r)

"Project Agencies" means, collectively, the ministries and entities 

referred to in paragraphs (b) through (q) of this Section; and

(s)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventeen million dollars 
($17,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

the Bulgarian National Bank a special deposit account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest rates 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
pay interest accrued on the 

Period, calculated 

"(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

"(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 

15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out, through the respective Project 
Agencies in accordance with the provision of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of overall administration of the activities to 

be carried out under the Project and the procurement of goods and services required 
therefor, the Borrower
shall establish, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, within MOF a 
project implementation unit, to be assisted by a qualified and experienced project 
implementation advisor, with such powers, responsibilities, functions and staff as 
shall be necessary for the proper execution of the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain the PCC 

with such composition and functions as shall ensure the proper overall coordination in 
the carrying out of the Project. 

Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1991: (a) for the 
purpose of overseeing the design and development of the strategy for privatization of 
state enterprises referred to under Part A (1) of the Project, establish and 
thereafter maintain a steering group under the chairmanship of a Deputy Prime Minister 
which shall include among its members the Ministers of MOF and MITS and the President 
of PA; and (b) for the purpose of overseeing the carrying out of Part A (5) of the 
Project, establish and thereafter maintain within MITS a steering group which shall 
include representatives of concerned ministries and agencies of the Borrower.

Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the Project Agencies and other departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

 

 

Section, 
year, audited in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account or 
all records (contracts, orders, 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 

invoices, bills, receipts and other 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

(a) of this 
 

(i)

(ii)

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely that:

(a)

subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to 

withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; and

(b)

paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation or termination 
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 

from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to 

the Bank that the EC Grant has been allocated for the purposes of the Project and that 
all conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds thereof 
have been fulfilled; and

(b)

the PIU shall have been established pursuant to the provisions of Section 

3.02 (a) of this Agreement and the project implementation advisor referred to therein 
shall have been appointed.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovski Street
Sofia 1040
Republic of Bulgaria

Cable address:

MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Sofia

Telex:

22727

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA),
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

 

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

By /s/ Ivan Kostov

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

By /s/ W.A. Wapenhans

Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Goods                    1,800,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2)  Consultants’             9,400,000         100% of foreign
     Services                                   expenditures

(3)  Training                 1,200,000         100%

(4)  Unallocated              4,600,000
                             __________

         TOTAL               17,000,000
                             ==========

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for 

expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1991.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower’s institutions and 

agencies responsible for the carrying out of the Borrower’s stabilization and 
structural reform programs and to provide the necessary technical support and training 
required for that purpose.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Private Sector Development; Enterprise Privatization and Restructuring

(1)
enterprises.

The design and development of a strategy for the privatization of state 

(2)
program defining the structure, staffing needs and budgetary requirements of PA.

The development of guidelines for the operations of PA and implementation of a 

The carrying out of a limited number of operations of privatization of state 

(3)
enterprises, and the development of plans for the management of privatization 
operations falling outside the jurisdiction of PA.

(4)
equipment needed for the operations of PA.

The provision of training to the staff of PA and other concerned agencies and of 

The development and implementation of a legal and organizational framework for 

(5)
state enterprises and the definition of the structure of their management, and the 
development of reporting and performance monitoring systems applicable to their 
operations.

The development of a strategy, and an implementation program thereunder, for the 

(6)
privatization and restructuring of industrial enterprises, and the preparation of 
restructuring
programs for at least three industrial subsectors and five industrial enterprises to 
be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

The establishment of a legal and institutional framework for business activities 

(7)
comprising legislation and regulations governing, inter alia, property, corporations, 
competition, bankruptcy and public procurement, the provision of legal advisory 
services and legal training, the  establishment of a legal reference library and the 
provision of equipment necessary for the foregoing.

The development and introduction of a modern accounting and auditing system, the 

(8)
carrying out of a program for the development of the accounting and auditing 
profession and the provision of training and study tours.

Bank Restructuring and Reform

Part B:
 
(1)
Borrower’s banking system.

The carrying out of a study of the structural issues pertaining to the 

(2)
banks.

The carrying out of diagnostic and institutional development studies of selected 

(3)
for the purposes of auditing banks’ loan portfolios and training bank inspectors.

The provision of advisory services to the Banking Supervision Department of BNB 

The provision of advisory services to support banks’ management.

(4)
 
(5)
for the training of bankers, and the provision of training to the staff of banks.

The carrying out of a feasibility study for the establishment of an institute 

The design and development of a modern payments clearing system.

(6)
 
Part C:
 
(1)
The design and development of a program for the strengthening and modernization 
of the Borrower’s social security system, the provision of training and fellowships to 
the staff responsible for said system and the provision of equipment.

Human Resources Development

The design and development of a program for the reform of the Borrower’s social 

(2)
welfare system, including the carrying out of a review of pertinent legislation, the 
establishment of
social indicators and the improvement of social workers’ training.

The design and development of a program to remove impediments to the performance 

(3)
of the education sector, including the development of an achievement measurement 
system, the carrying
out of student tracer studies, the development of proposals for system management, 
standard-setting, teacher-training, school design and construction techniques, foreign 
language
teaching and book development and the formulation of plans for the improvement of the 
management and funding practices of educational and scientific research institutions.

The design and development of a program for the improvement of the management of 

(4)
the health system at the national and regional levels, the provision of training and 
the development of a system for comprehensive health screening procedures and the 
provision of equipment required for the carrying out of such screening procedures.

The design, development and implementation of a program to strengthen employment 

(5)
services and small business development, including the carrying out of necessary 
studies, and the provision of data processing equipment to support a modern labor 
market information system.

The design and development of a program for management of training systems, the 

(6)
carrying out of study tours, the establishment and equipping of a model regional 
training center.

Part D:
 

Energy

The carrying out of studies of the power generation sector, the potential for 

expansion of the use of gas and of the safety and environmental aspects of the use of 
nuclear power.

Part E:
 

Institutional Development

The provision of advisory services and assistance to the Borrower’s ministries 
and agencies in areas critical to the Borrower’s economic reform programs consisting 
of:

(1)
a comprehensive review of the trade policy regime.

The provision of advisory services and equipment to MFER for the carrying out of 

The provision of advisory and expert services to support MOF in the areas of 

(2)
domestic debt management, tax control, government audit, accounting and management of 
MOF and other areas,
relevant to MOF’s responsibilities, selected in agreement with the Bank.

(3)
macro-economic policy development.

The provision of advisory services and equipment to AEPD to support 

(4)
strategy.

The provision of advisory services to assist DMC in the development of a debt 

The carrying out of a study to assess the needs of CSO for computer hardware and 

(5)
software, and based on the findings and recommendations of said study, the provision 
of recommended hardware
and software.

Project Implementation

Part F:
 

implementation.

The provision of advisory services to the PIU for the purposes of Project 

Responsibility for the execution of the various components of the Project shall 

be assigned to the respective Project Agencies as set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.

*  *  *

ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

Project Agencies Responsible for
Execution of the Project

                        Project Component             Agency

Part A (1)              Privatization of state        Council of
                        enterprises                   Ministers

Part A (2),             Privatization of state        PA
(3) and (4)             enterprises

Part A (5)              State enterprise              MITS/MOF
                        management

Part A (6)              Restructuring of industrial   MITS
                        enterprises

Part A (7)              Development of legal          CNA
                        framework for business
                        activity

Part A (8)              Accounting and auditing       MOF

Part B                  Bank restructuring            BNB
                        and reform

Part C (1) and          Social security and           MESS
(2)                     welfare

Part C (3)              Education                     ME/MSHE

Part C (4)              Health                        MOH

Part C (5)              Employment services           MESS

Part C (6)              Training                      MESS

Part D                  Energy                        Committee on
                                                      Energy/
                                                      Bulgargas

Part E (1)              Trade policy regime           MFER

Part E (2)              Advisory services             MOF

Part E (3)              Support for macro-            AEPD
                        economic policy
                        development

Part E (4)              Debt strategy                 DMC/MFER

Part E (5)              Statistical support           CSO

Part F                  Project implementation        PIU/MOF

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due
 
On March 15 and September 15

beginning March 15, 1997
through March 15, 2008

 
On September 15, 2008
 

710,000

670,000

_____________________________

*
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

 

Not more than three years

before maturity

The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:

0.18

More than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not

more than 15 years
before maturity

More than 15 years before

maturity

0.35

0.65

0.88

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Procurement of Goods

International Competitive Bidding

Section I.
 
Part A:
 
1.
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Except as provided in Part C hereof, computer equipment shall be procured under 

2.
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.

To the extent practicable, contracts for computer equipment shall be grouped in 

Part B:
 

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 

A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Bulgaria may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Other Procurement Procedures

Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 

Part C:
 
1.
$50,000 but less than $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Items or group of items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 

2.
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may 
be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:
 
1.
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and finalcontracts:

(a)

With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 

$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.

(b)

With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c)

The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.

2.
to the Guidelines.

The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 

Section II.
 

Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 

shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 

and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures.

such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

