CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3652 CHA

(Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 15, 1993

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3652 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1993, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Shanghai Municipality (SM, as herein 
defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to SM the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SM;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

 

(a)

(b)

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

"(k)

An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 

further withdrawals 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s

under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SM of even 

date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(b)

"SM" means Shanghai Municipality, a political subdivision of the 

Borrower, or any successor thereto.

(c)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(d)

"Subproject" and "Subprojects" means singularly a subproject and 

collectively the subprojects included in Part B.3 of the Project.

(e)

"Subsidiary Loan" means the proceeds of the Loan onlent to SM by the 

Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

United States Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, 
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 

Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

immediately preceding 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
signed.

each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

Period in which this Agreement is 

(ii)

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

determined by the Bank 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 

and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 

drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

the Bank has 

than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

a calendar year.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 

outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 

withdrawn and 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
 

calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the 
1%).  On each of the dates 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 

shall notify the 
respect of such Quarter."

April 1, July 1 
 

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

or October 1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

January 1 and July 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause SM to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 

all the obligations of SM therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SM to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to SM on the following 

principal terms and conditions: (i) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be 
repaid over a period of twenty years,
including five years of grace; (ii) SM shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equivalent 
to 100 percent of the rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
2.05 of this Agreement; (iii) SM shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the rate 
stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and (iv) SM shall bear the foreign exchange 
risk.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SM 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting practices, 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other 
retained until at least one year after 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Loan Account was made; and

documents) evidencing such expenditures are 

the Bank has received the audit 

withdrawal from the 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

 

 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

this Section 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

with appropriate auditing 

acceptable to 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six months 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 

after the end of each such year the report of 
scope and in such detail as the 

separate 

submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 

controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 

support the related 
 

withdrawals; and

and accounts and 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 

reasonably request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Agreement.

SM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

(b)

the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower’s State Council has approved this 
Agreement.

Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by SM, and is legally binding upon SM in accordance with 
its terms.

Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

 

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA),
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Li Daoyu

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Civil works:

      (a) under Parts
          A and C of the
          Project               91,000,000      38%

      (b) under Part B.3
          of the Project         2,900,000      38%

(2)   Equipment and             38,500,000      100% of foreign
      materials                                 expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75% of

                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Consultants’               1,140,000      100%
      services and
      training

(4)   Unallocated               16,460,000
                               ___________

      TOTAL                    150,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Category 1 (a) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after December 31, 1992; and (b) under Category 1 (b), on account 
of a Subproject, unless the Subproject has been approved by the Bank.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower’s Shanghai Municipality 

to: (i) enhance its economic productivity by improving the operational and economic 
efficiency of its urban transport system, and (ii) strengthen its public sector 
management capacity by improving the planning and management of its urban transport 
system.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:
 

Construction of Inner Ring Road

Construction of about 22 kilometers of the inner ring road between the Nanpu and 

Yangpu bridges in Shanghai comprising a dual two-lane carriageway viaduct for motor 
vehicles, together with an improved
ground level road comprising a dual two-lane carriageway for motor vehicles, two 
exclusive non-motor vehicle lanes, and two footpaths.

Traffic Management and Safety

Part B:
 
1.
Expansion of the traffic control system through: (i) purchase, refurbishment, 
and equipping of buildings and installation of two district control centers therein, 
(ii) installation of traffic signals
for about 70 intersections, (iii) provision of traffic monitoring equipment, (iv) 
provision of telecommunications systems, and (v) signing and marking of intersections.

Establishment of a road safety research center to: (i) provide facilities for a 

2.
research program into road and traffic conditions in Shanghai, (ii) carry on an 
accident analysis and remedial measures
program, (iii) provide suitable equipment to test and train drivers, and (iv) develop 
the expertise for targeting road safety problems.

Carrying out of an extended traffic management program comprising subprojects 

3.
aimed at: (i) building missing non-motorized vehicle links and bridges, (ii) creating 
non-motorized vehicle routes parallel to motor vehicle routes, (iii) measures to 
improve bus priority, passenger safety and operating efficiency of the bus network, 
and to provide the basis of a bus priority network, and (iv) improving the operational 
efficiency and safety of motor vehicle routes.

Public Transport Investments

Construction of a bus depot and a maintenance workshop at Caobao.

Construction of a bus depot and a maintenance workshop at Yinhang.

Part C:
 
1.
 
2.
 
3.
 
Part D:
 
1.
training and advising concerned SM staff regarding proper management procedures, 
practices, and techniques.

Provision of project management support in implementation of the Project by 

Construction of a bus terminal at Caoxi.

Technical Assistance

Provision of traffic management support by strengthening the roles and 

2.
capabilities of departments and agencies of SM responsible for the design, 
implementation, and enforcement of traffic management.

Provision of transport planning support by assisting concerned departments and 

3.
agencies of SM to establish a center for the storage of data required for transport 
planning in Shanghai and to develop surveys and other arrangements for the collection 
of the required data.

Amplification and implementation of the Shanghai highway pavement maintenance 

4.
management system by assisting concerned departments and agencies of SM to further 
develop, improve, and implement the same through the provision of training and 
technical advisory services.

5.
Provision of environmental support to concerned departments and agencies of SM 
by assisting them to: (i) monitor the environmental impact of carrying out Part A of 
the Project and the effectiveness of the recommended mitigation measures, (ii) make 
the necessary changes as a result thereof in the environmental action plan, and (iii) 
prepare a vehicle inspection and maintenance plan, and a staged strategic plan for 
reducing motor vehicle emissions.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due
 
July 1, 1999                               
January 1, 2000                            
July 1, 2000                               
January 1, 2001                            
July 1, 2001                               
January 1, 2002                            
July 1, 2002                               

2,805,000
2,910,000
3,015,000
3,130,000
3,245,000
3,365,000
3,490,000

January 1, 2003                            
July 1, 2003                               
January 1, 2004                            
July 1, 2004                               
January 1, 2005                            
July 1, 2005                               
January 1, 2006                            
July 1, 2006                               
January 1, 2007                            
July 1, 2007                               
January 1, 2008                            
July 1, 2008                               
January 1, 2009                            
July 1, 2009                               
January 1, 2010                            
July 1, 2010                               
January 1, 2011                            
July 1, 2011                               
January 1, 2012                            
July 1, 2012                               
January 1, 2013                            
July 1, 2013                               
January 1, 2014                            
 
_____________________________
*
respective dates of 

3,620,000
3,755,000
3,895,000
4,040,000
4,190,000
4,345,000
4,505,000
4,675,000
4,845,000
5,025,000
5,215,000
5,405,000
5,610,000
5,815,000
6,035,000
6,255,000
6,490,000
6,730,000
6,980,000
7,240,000
7,510,000
7,790,000
8,070,000

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 

withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

 

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years

before maturity

More than three years but

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but

not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not 

more than 16 years
before maturity

More than 16 years but not
more than 18 years 
before maturity

More than 18 years before

maturity

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.90

1.00

0.80

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, and 3 set forth in 

the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
 

requests for deposits into the Special 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 

Bank the documents and other evidence required 

Schedule for the payment or 

requested.  

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 

amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
eligible expenditures.

such 
shown by said 
out of the Special Account for 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 

shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

