CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3787 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Xinjiang Provincial Highway Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 11, 1994

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 3787 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1994, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region (XAR 
as herein defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to XAR the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and XAR;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

 

(a)

(b)

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

further 
provisions of Article III, Section 
 

"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 

withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 

3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

"Connecting Road" means the 22.4 kilometers road to be constructed within 

the municipal limits of Urumqi from the north fork of Hetan road to Wulapo, pursuant 
to Urumqi Municipal Development Plan, for connecting the Turpan-Urumqi and 
Urumqi-Dahuangshan sections of the Highway.

(b)

"HGHAB" means the High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau, to be 

established under Part D.1(a) of the Project, or any successor thereto.

(c)

"Highway" means the Turpan-Urumqi-Dahuangshan Highway to be constructed 

under Part A.1 of the Project.

under Part A.4 of the Project.

thereto.

(d)

"Link Roads" means the roads to be constructed, rehabilitated or upgraded 

(e)

"PEO" means the Project Execution Office, within XHGHCA, or any successor 

(f)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 

Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region (XAR) of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(g)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(h)

"XAR" or "Xinjiang" means the Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region, a 

political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.

(i)

"XCD" means the Xingjiang Communications Department or any successor 

thereto.

(j)

"XHGHCA" means the Xinjiang High-Grade Highway Construction Authority, an 

agency of XAR, or any successor thereto.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 

each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account for the Project, in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedules 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 

withdrawn 
the Cost of Qualified 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 

of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 

shall pay interest accrued on the 

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 

shall notify the 
of such Quarter."

April 1, 
 

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 

July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year." 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 

and November 1 in each year. 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause XAR to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of XAR therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable XAR to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to XAR under terms and 

conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include the following: (i) the onlent 
proceeds shall be repaid over a period of twenty years, including five years of grace; 
(ii) XAR shall pay interest on the onlent principal amount withdrawn by it and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equivalent to ninety percent of the rate 
calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (iii) XAR shall pay to 
the Borrower a commitment charge on the onlent principal amount not withdrawn by it 
from time to time at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, and (iv) XAR 
shall bear the
foreign exchange risk in respect of the onlent proceeds of the Loan.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by XAR pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

 

 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
audited, in 
consistently applied, by 
Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 

independent auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

months after the end of each such year the report of 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Agreement.

XAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that XAR will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified:

(a)

any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General
Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been approved by the Borrower’s State 
Council.

Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by XAR, and is legally binding upon XAR in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

 

 

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (RCA),
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Jin Liqun

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                  Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)       Civil works under        99,500,000       56%
          Parts A.1, A.2 and
          A.4 of the Project

(2)       Civil works under           400,000       56%
          Part C.1(c) of the
          Project

(3)       Works under Part A.3      8,500,000       80%
          of the Project

(4)       Equipment                11,100,000       100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures, 100%
                                                    of local expendi-
                                                    tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally

(5)       Consultants’               7,100,000      100%
          services and
          training

(6)       Unallocated               23,400,000
                                   ___________

          TOTAL                    150,000,000

2.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories 4 and 5 on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after March 31, 1994.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) in respect of (i) training, and 
(ii) works under Part C.1(c) of the Project, and (b) under contracts (i) for goods and 
works (other than works under Part C.1(c) of the Project), not exceeding $250,000 
equivalent, and (ii) services, not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 
equivalent for individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) support 
continuing development of road infrastructure to facilitate mobility and increase the 
efficiency of road
transport in the interest of stimulating economic activity; (b) promote the 
development of institutional capabilities of Xinjiang departments and agencies 
responsible for highway planning and investment prioritization, design, construction 
and maintenance of highways, and roadway safety; (c) improve the efficiency of road 
passenger transport services; (d) increase the safety of road transport; and (e) 
improve highway maintenance operations to better preserve past investments in roads, 
in Xinjiang.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Construction of Highway

Part A:
 
1.
Construction in Xinjiang of about 283 kilometers highway on a new right-of-way 
between Turpan to Urumqi (about 176 kilometers) and Urumqi to Dahuangshan (about 107 
kilometers), excluding the Connecting Road, of which:

(a)

about 101 kilometers section would be Class I (four lanes) highway 
consisting of: (i) about 28 kilometers in the Poplar Valley area; (ii) about 19 
kilometers from Urumqi to the Xinjiang Fertilizer Plant to the south; and (iii) about 
54 kilometers from Hetian Road (north of Urumqi) to Tianchi intersection; and

(b)

about 182 kilometers section would be Class II (two lanes for motor 

vehicles only) highway consisting of: (i) about 67 kilometers from Turpan to Poplar 
Valley; (ii) about 62 kilometers from Poplar Valley to the Xinjiang Fertilizer Plant; 
and (iii) about 53 kilometers from Tianchi intersection to Dahuangshan, with the 
exception of about 7 kilometers of this section consisting of about 5 kilometers in 
the city of Turpan and about 2 kilometers in the Salt Lake area
which would be constructed as four-lane urban roads.

2.
buildings, two parking areas, and one service area.

Construction along the Highway of about five management and maintenance 

Supply and installation of electrical, electronic, and mechanical equipment for 

3.
toll collection, telecommunication, and lighting of bridges, interchanges and toll 
collection areas on or along the Highway.

Construction, rehabilitation, and upgrading of about six roads with a total 

4.
length of about 16 kilometers that would interconnect and feed traffic to the Highway 
at selected intersections and interchanges.

Equipment

Part B:
 
1.
Provision of equipment for: (a) control of construction quality and for 
monitoring of the environment during the construction of the Highway and Link Roads; 
(b) operation and maintenance of the Highway; (c) maintenance of the Xingjiang 
regional highway network; and (d) institutional strengthening under Part D of the 
Project.

Road Safety Program

Part C:
 
1.
Carrying out of a road safety program consisting of: (a) improvement of 
treatment and analysis of accident data; (b) improvement of traffic law enforcement 
with emphasis on speed regulation and drunken driving; and (c) a pilot program on 
accident black spots improvement, through the provision of technical assistance and 
training, including equipment required therefor, to HGHAB and the Xinjiang Traffic 
Police Team.

Institutional Strengthening

Part D:
 
1.
XCD and the training and other institutions affiliated therewith including the 
planning, design, construction, supervision, operation, maintenance, and training 

Strengthening of the overall management and administration capacity of XHGHCA, 

capacity thereof through: (a) the transformation of PEO into a permanent High-Grade 
Highway Administration Bureau within XCD; and (b) the provision of training including 
relevant materials and equipment therefor.

2.
(a) Carrying out of a study on Xinjiang highway network maintenance; and (b) 
preparation of a program to maintain and rehabilitate the Xinjiang highway network.

3.
 

Carrying out of a study on Xinjiang inter-city and rural passenger transport.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due
 
May 1, 2000                                      
November 1, 2000                                 
May 1, 2001                                      
November 1, 2001                                 
May 1, 2002                                    
November 1, 2002                               
May 1, 2003                                    
November 1, 2003                               
May 1, 2004                                    
November 1, 2004                               
May 1, 2005                                    
November 1, 2005                               
May 1, 2006                                    
November 1, 2006                               
May 1, 2007                                    
November 1, 2007                               
May 1, 2008                                    
November 1, 2008                               
May 1, 2009                                    
November 1, 2009                               
May 1, 2010                                    
November 1, 2010                               
May 1, 2011                                    
November 1, 2011                               
May 1, 2012                                    
November 1, 2012                               
May 1, 2013                                    
November 1, 2013                               
May 1, 2014                                    
November 1, 2014                               
 
____________________________

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

  860,000
  860,000
  860,000
  860,000

5,100,000
5,100,000
5,200,000
5,200,000
5,300,000
5,300,000
5,400,000
5,400,000
5,500,000
5,500,000
5,600,000
5,600,000
5,700,000
5,700,000
5,800,000
5,800,000
5,900,000
5,900,000
6,000,000
6,000,000
6,000,000
6,000,000
6,000,000
6,000,000
6,000,000
5,560,000

*
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment

Premium

 

The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 

to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      

before maturity

More than three years but                      

0.15

0.30

not more than six years
before maturity

not more than 11 years
before maturity

more than 16 years
before maturity

more than 18 years
before maturity

maturity

More than six years but                        

0.55

More than 11 years but not                     

0.80

More than 16 years but not                     

0.90

More than 18 years before                      

1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 

the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 

Account and deposit into the Special 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.

Account such amount as the 
been shown by 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

