O FF  C GI A L
DCMEINTS

LOAN  NUMBER  3696  ZIM

Loan Agreement

(Third  Power  Project)

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

between

and

ZIMBABWE  ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY

Dated 

l, 

1994

LOAN NUMBER 3696 ZIM

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated 

,  1994,  between
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUtCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and
ZIMBABWE  ELECTRICITY  SUPPLY  AUTHORITY  (the  Borrower).

(A) 

WHEREAS 

the  Bank  has  received  a  letter  of  development
from  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe  (the
policy  dated  June  3,  1993, 
Guarantor)  describing,  inter  alia,  a  program  of  actions,  objectives
and policies  for its power  sector  (the Program) and  declaring its
commitment to  the execution of  the Program;

(B)  the  Guarantor  and  the  Borrower,  having  been  satisfied  as
to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule
2  to  this  Agreement,  have  requested  the  Bank  to  assist  in  the
financing of  the  Project;

(C)  by an agreement  (the Guarantee Agreement) of  even date
herewith  between  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank,  the  Guarantor  has
agreed to  guarantee  the  obligations of  the  Borrower  in  respect of
the  Loan  and  to  undertake  such  other  obligations  as  set  forth  in  the
Guarantee Agreement;  and

(D)  the Bank has  agreed,  on the basis,  inter alia,  of  the
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and

foregoing, 
conditions  set forth in  this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the  parties hereto hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section  1.01.  The  "General Conditions  Applicable to  Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,  with the
modifications  set  forth  below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral part of this Agreement:

(a)  The  last  sentence of Section 3.02  is  deleted;  and

(b)  Section 6.02,  sub-paragraph  (k) is re-lettered as  sub-

paragraph (1) and  a new sub-paragraph (k) is  added  to read:

"(k)  An  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen under
the  Loan  would  be

which  any  further  withdrawals  under 

inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  Article  III,  Section  3  of
the Bank's Articles  of Agreement."
Section  1.02.  Un1ss  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and
the  following  additional terms  have the following meanings:

(a) 

"Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in

Section 2.02  (b) of  this Agreement;  and

"Financial  Year"  and  "FY"  mean  the  financial  year  of  the

Borrower which is  from July 1 to June 30  of the  following year.

(b) 

-2-

ARTICLE  II

The Loan

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate  value  equivalent  to
the  amount  of  ninety  million  dollars  ($90,000,000),  being  the  sum  of
withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  with  each  withdrawal  valued
by the Bank as  of the  date of  such withdrawal.

Section  2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may be  withdrawn  from
the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so
agree,  to be made) in respect  of  the reasonable  cost  of  goods  and
services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and to be  financed out  of  the  proceeds of  the Loan.

(b)  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,
open  and  maintain  in  U.S.  dollars  a  special  deposit  account  in  a
commercial bank through the  Reserve Bank of  Zimbabwe  on terms  and
conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  appropriate
protection  against  set-off,  seizure  or  attachment.  Deposits  into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance
with the provisions  of  Schedule 5 to  this  Agreement.

Section  2.03.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  December  31,  1997,  or
such  later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly
notify the Borrower and  the Guarantor of  such later  date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment
charge  at the  rate of  three-fourths of  one  percent  (3/4 of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

Section  2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus  one-half of  one percent (112  of  1%).  On each of the
the  Borrower
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, 
shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
during  the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)  As soon as  practicable after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings  determined in respect of  such Semester.

(c)  For the purposes of  this  Section:

(i)  "Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period  ending
on  the  date  immediately  preceding  each  date
specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is  signed.

(ii)  "Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,  as
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed
as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the  outstanding
borrowings of  the Bank drawn down  after June 30,
1982,  excluding  such  borrowings  or  portions
thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to  fund:
loans  which
the  Bank's  investments;  and  (B) 
(A) 
1989,
may  be  made  by  the  Bank  after  July  1, 
bearing interest  rates determined  otherwise than
as  provided in paragraph (a) of this  Section.

(iii) 

"Semester"  means  the  first  six  months  or  the
second six months  of  a calendar year.

-4-

(d) 

On  such  date  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  no  less  than  six
of

(b)  and  (c) 

(iii) 

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this  Section  shall be  amended to  read  as  follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay  interest  on the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Quarter  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of  one percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On each of
the
the  dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, 
Borrower  shall pay  interest  accrued on  the principal  amount
outstanding during the preceding  Interest Period, calculated
at  the  rates  applicable during such Interest Period."

"(b)  As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of  each
Quarter,  the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  and  the  Guarantor
of  the Cost  of Qualified  Borrowings determined  in respect  of
such Quarter."

"(c) 

(iii)  'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period
commencing  on  January  1, April  1, July  1  or  October  1  in  a
calendar year."

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually on March 15  and  September  15  in each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall repay  the  principal  amount  of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule  set  forth in
Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section  3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the
to  this
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 
to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  with  due
Agreement  and, 
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public  practices,  and
shall provide,*promptly as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services
and other resources required  for the  Project.

-5-

Section  3.02.  Except  as 

the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement of the  goods, works  and  consultants'  services  required
for the Project and to be  financed out  of  the proceeds of  the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement.

Section 3.03.  (a) Not later  than June 30,  1995,  the Borrower,
thek  Guarantor  and  the  Bank  shall  undertake  a  mid-term  review  of  the
Project  implementation to  ascertain inter alia,  the performance of
the  Borrower  in  the:  (i)  implementation  of  the  Project;
(ii)  achievement  of  the  financial  targets  specified  in  this
Agreement;  (iii) carrying  out of  its  efficiency program, including
a  review  of  its  operational  plan  for  FY96;  and  (iv)  desirability  of
using a rate of return on net revalued assets  as a criteria for the
Borrower's  financial management.

the
(b)  Not  later  than  one  month  prior  to  such  review, 
Borrower shall furnish to  the Bank and  the  Guarantor for  comments,
a report in such detail  as  the  Bank and  the Guarantor  shall agree
upon,  on  the  progress  of  the  specific  issues  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a) of  this Section.

the
(c)  Following  the  review  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a), 
Borrower  shall  act  promptly  and  diligently  to  take  any  action  deemed
necessary  to  correct  any  shortcomings  agreed  upon  during  such
review, in furtherance of  the objectives  of  the Project.

Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall take all necessary measures
within its power  in cooperation with the Guarantor's Tender Board,
to  ensure  that  the  bid  adjudication  and  approval  process  for
contracts  for  procurement  of  goods  under  the  Project  are  each
carried out within a period of  three months.

ARTICLE  IV

Management  and  Operations  of  the  Borrower

Section  4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall carry on its  operations
and  conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound  administrative,
practices  under  the  supervision  of
financial,  and  public  utility 
qualified  and  experienced  management  assisted  by  competent  staff  in
adequate numbers.

(b)  To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  take  all  necessary
senior  managerial  positions  including,  a  Station
a  Production  Manager  and  Stores

a  Maintenance  Manager, 

actions  so  that  its 
Manager, 

-6-

Officer,  all for the  Hwange Power Station, are filled at  all  times
by  suitably qualified and experienced  staff.

Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  at  all  times  operate  and
maintain  its plants, machinery,  equipment  and other property,  and
from time  to  time,  promptly as  needed, make all  necessary  repairs
in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
and  renewals  thereof,  all 
financial, public utility and  environmentally sound practices.

Section 4.03.  The  Borrower shall  take out  and maintain with
responsible  insurers,  or make  other  provision  satisfactory  to  the
Bank for,  insurance against  such risks and  in such amounts as  shall
be  consistent with appropriate practice.

Section 4.04.  (a) The Borrower shall implement the operations

plan for FY94 adopted on September 27,  1993;

(b)  The  Borrower  and  the  Guarantor  shall  not  later  than
March 31,  1994,  prepare  and  furnish to the Bank for  its review and
comments,  a draft  operations plan for FY95.

(b)  Following  such review and comments,  the Borrower shall
adopt  by June  30,  1994,  an operations  plan for  the Borrower's  FY95
inter
which  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  shall  include, 
alia,  appropriate  operational  and  financial  targets  for  the
Borrower,  a  formula  for  the  adjustment  of  tariffs  for  unavoidable
cost  increases  and the  Guarantor's  plans  for the commercialization
of  the  Borrower,  including  the  legal  and  regulatory  reforms  required
for  that  purpose,  and  for  private  sector  participation  in  the  power
sector.

ARTICLE  V

Financial Covenants

Section  5.01.  (a) The  Borrower  shall  maintain  records  and
accounts  adequate  to  reflect  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting
practices  its  operations  and  financial condition.

(b)  The Borrower shall:

(i)  have  its 

records,  accounts  and  financial
statements  (balance sheets, statements  of  income
and  expenses  and  related  statements)  and  the
records  and  accounts for the  Special Account  for

- 7  -

in  accordance  with
each  fiscal  year  audited, 
appropriate  auditing  principles  consistently
applied,  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to
the Bank;

(ii) 

furnish to  the Bank as  soon as  available, but  in
any case not  later than six months after the end
(A)  certified  copies  of  its
of  each  such  year: 
financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so  audited;
and  (B)  the  report  of  such  audit  by  said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested;  and

(iii) 

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information
concerning  said  records,  accounts  and  financial
statements  as  well  as  the  audit  thereof  as  the
Bank shall  from time to  time reasonably  request.

(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure, the Borrower  shall:

(i)  maintain,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  (a)  of
records  and  accounts  reflecting

this  Section, 
such expenditures;

(ii) 

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank
has  received the audit report for the fiscal year
in  which  the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan
records  (contracts,  orders,
Account  was  made,  all 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
evidencing  such expenditures;

(iii) 

enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine  such
records;  and

(iv) 

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included  in  the  annual  audit  referred  to  in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors  as  to  whether  the  statements  of
expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal  year,
together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
in  their  preparation,  can  be
controls  involved 
relied upon to  support the related withdrawals.

- 8  -

Section  5.02.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  until
its  billings  and

the  completion  of  the  Project 
collections  as  of June 30  and December 31  each year.

twice  yearly, 

(b)  Except as  the Bank shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all necessary measures so  that  its outstanding customer
account  receivables  shall  not  exceed  75  days  of  revenues  for  FY94
and  FY95  and  65  days  and  60  days  of  revenues  for  FY96  and  FY97,
respectively.

Section  5.03.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  consult  by  May  31  of  each
year  with  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank  on  its  power  investment  program
for the  next three successive  Financial Years.

(b)  Following such consultations,  the Borrower  shall adopt
a power  investment program for  such Financial Year which shall be
satisfactory to the Guarantor and  the Bank.

(c)  Thereafter  the  Borrower  shall  not  carry  out  any  power
investment  estimated  to  cost  in  excess  of  the  equivalent  of  $50
million  which  is  not  in  the  adopted  investment  program  for  the
Fiscal Years  in question without prior  consultation with the Bank.
Section 5.04. The  Borrower shall prepare  and  furnish to  the
its  estimates  of  either  the
Bank  for  its 
long run average  incremental cost  or the long run marginal cost  of
power for each consumer group and shall adjust its tariffs  to reach
one or  the  other of these  costs by July 1, 1995.

review  by  January  30,  1995, 

Section  5.05. 

(a)  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  incur  any  debt  unless  the  net  revenues  of  the
Borrower  for  the Financial Year  immediately preceding the  date  of
such incurrence or  for  a later twelve-month period  ending prior to
the  date of  such incurrence, whichever is  the greater, shall be at
least  1.25  times  the  estimated  maximum  debt  service  requirements  of
the Borrower  for any  succeeding financial  year on all debt  of  the
Borrower including  the debt to be  incurred.

(b)  For the purposes of  this  Section:

(i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of  the
terms  more  than  one  year
Borrower  maturing  by  its 
after  the  date  on  which  it  is  originally
incurred.

-9-

(ii) 

Debt shall be  deemed  to be  incurred:  (A) under a
loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other  instrument
providing  for  such  debt  or  for  the  modification
of  its  terms  of  payment  on  the  date  of  such
contract, agreement  or  instrument;  and  (B) under
a guarantee  agreement, on  the date the  agreement
providing  for  such  guarantee  has  been  entered
into.

(iii) 

The  term  "net  revenues"  means  the  difference
between:

(A)  the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources
related  to  operations  adjusted  to  take
in
account  of  the  Borrower's 
effect  at  the  time  of  the  incurrence  of
debt  even  though  they  were  not  in  effect
the  twelve-month  period  to  which
during 
such revenues relate  and net non-operating
income;  and

tariffs 

(B)  the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
administration,
including 
operations 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of  taxes,  but excluding provision for
depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating
charges  and  interest  and  other  charges  on
debt.

(iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the

difference between:

(A)  revenues from  all sources other than those

related to operations;  and

(B)  expenses, 

including  taxes  and  payments 

in
the  generation

lieu  of  taxes, 
of  revenues  in 

incurred  in 
(A)  above.

(v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the
aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking  fund
and  interest  and  other
payments, 
charges thereon.

any)  of, 

if 

- 10  -

(iv)  The term "working capital other than cash" means
the  difference  between  current  assets  exclud4ig
cash and  current  liabilities  at  the  end  of  each
financial year.

(iv)  The  term  "current  assets  excluding  cash"  means
all  assets  other  than  cash  which  could  in  the
ordinary  course  of  business  be  converted  into
cash  within  twelve  months,  including  accounts
receivable,  marketable  securities,  inventories
and  prepaid  expenses  properly  chargeable  to
operating  expenses  within  the  next  financial
year.

(vi)  The 

all
term  "current  liabilities"  means 
liabilities which will become due  and payable or
could  under  circumstances  then  existing  be  called
for  payment  within  twelve  months,  including
accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  debt  service
requirements,  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of
taxes,  and dividends.

(vii)  The  term  "capital  expenditures"  means  all
expenditures  incurred  on  account  of  fixed  assets,
including  interest  charged  to  construction,
related to  operations.

Section 5.06.  (a) Except  as  the  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  produce,  for  each  of  its  Financial  Years
begirning  from  July  1,  1993,  until  its  Financial  Year  ending  on  June
30,  1998,  funds  from internal  sources  equivalent to  not  less  than
25%  of  the  annual  average  of  the  Borrower's  capital  expenditures
incurred,  or  expected  to be  incurred,  for  that  year, the  previous
financial year  and the next  following Financial Year.

(b)  Before December 31  in each of  its  Financial Years, the
Borrower shall,  on  the basis of  forecasts prepared by  the Borrower
and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  it  would  meet  the
in  respect  of  such  year  and
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) 
the next  following Financial Year and  shall  furnish to  the Bank a
copy  of such  review upon its  completion.

(c)  If 

any  such  review  shows  that  the  Borrower  would  not
meet  the  requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the  Bor-
rower's  Financial Years  covered by such review, the Borrower shall

-

11  -

promptly  take  all  necessary  measures  (including,  without  limita-
in
tion,  adjustments  of  its 
order to meet such requirements.

tariffs  and  reduction  of  unit  costs) 

(d)  For  the purposes  of  this  Section:

(i)  The term "funds from internal  sources" means the

difference between:

(A)  the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources
related  to  operations,  consumer  deposits
non-operating
and 
income,  sale  of  assets  and  investments,  any
reduction  in  working  capital  other  than
cash;  and

contributions, 

net 

including 

(B)  the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
administration,
operations, 
adequate  maintenance  and  taxes  and  payments
lieu  of  taxes  (excluding  provision  for
in 
depreciation  and  other  non-cash  operating
charges),  debt  service  requirements  all
cash  dividends  and  other  cash  distributions
in  working  capital
of  surplus, 
other  than  cash  and  other  cash  outflows
other than capital  expenditures.

increase 

(ii)  The 

term  "net  non-operating 

income"  means  the

difference between:

(A)  revenues  from all sources other  than those

related to operations;  and

(B)  expenses, 

including  taxes  and  payments 

in
the  generation

lieu  of  taxes, 
of  revenues  in  (A) above.

incurred  in 

(iii)  The term "working capital  other than cash" means
the  difference  between  current  assets  excluding
cash  and  current  liabilities  at  the  end  of  each
Financial Year.

(iv) 

The  term  "current  assets  excluding  cash" means
the
assets  other  than  cash  which  could  in 
all 
ordinary  course  of  business  be  converted  into

- 12  -

twelve  months, 

including  accounts
cash  within 
inventories
receivable,  marketable  securities, 
and  prepaid  expenses  properly  chargeable  to
operating  expenses  within  the  next  financial
year.

(v)  The  term  "current  liabilities"  means  all
liabilities which will become due  and payable  or
could under circumstances then existing be called
for  payment  within  twelve  months,  including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
requirements,  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of
taxes,  and  dividends.

(vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the
aggregate  amount  of  repayments  (including  sinking
fund payments, if any)  of debt,  and  interest and
other charges  thereon.

(vii)  The  term  "capital  expenditures"  means  all
expenditures  incurred  on  account  of  fixed  assets,
including  interest  charged  to  construction,
related to  operations.

Section 5.07. Whenever for the purposes of  Sections  5.05  and
5.06  it  shall  be  necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of  the  currency  of  the
Guarantor,  debt  payable  in  another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be
made  on  the  basis  of  the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at which
such  other currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such valuation, obtainable
for  the  purposes  of  servicing  such  debt,  or,  in  the  absence  of  such
rate, on  the basis  of  a rate of exchange acceptable to  the Bank.

ARTICLE  VI

Remedies  of the  Bank

Section  6.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (1)  of  the  General

Conditions,  the  following additional events  are  specified:

(a)  a  situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it 

improbable
that the power sector aspects of the Program, or  a significant part
thereof, will be  carried out;

- 13  -

(b) 

the  provisions  of  Electricity  Act  1985  of  the  Laws  of
the  Guarantor,  establishing  the  Borrower,  shall  have  been materially
amended,  suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived, so  as  to  affect
adversely the  ability  of  the Borrower to carry  out  its  obligations
under the Loan Agreement;  and

(c)  the  reconstitution  of  the  Central  African  Power
a  manner  which  affects
Corporation  shall  have  been  completed  in 
adversely  the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to  carry  out  its  obligations
under the Loan Agreement.

Section  6.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of  the  General
the  following  additional  event  is  specified,  namely,
Conditions, 
that any event  specified in paragraphs  (a),  (b) and  (c) of  Section
6.01  of  this  Agreement shall  occur.

ARTICLE VII

Effective Date;  Termination

Section  7.01.  The  following  event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan  Agreement
within the meaning of  Section 12.01  (c) of  the  General Conditions,
that  the  Borrower  has  appointed  a  suitably  qualified  and
namely, 
experienced  Project  Manager  with  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to
the Bank.

Section  7.02.  The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after
the date of  this Agreement is hereby specified  for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of  the General Conditions.

ARTICLE  VIII

Representative of  the Borrower;  Addresses

Section  8.01,  The  General  Manager  of  the  Borrower  is
designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of
Section 11.03 of  the General Conditions.

-

14-

Section 8.02.  The  following addresses  are specified for  the

purposes  of Section  11.01  of  the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for

Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

197688  (TRT),
248423  (RCA),
64145  (WUI)
82987  (FTCC)

For  the Borrower:

Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
25  Samora Machel Avenue
P.O. Box 377
Harare
Zimbabwe

Telex:

24323  ZW

- 15  -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting  through their
duly authorized representatives,  have caused this  Agreement to  be
signed  in  their  respective  names  in  the  District  of  Columbia,  United
States of America, as  of  the  day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By 

y
Regional Vice President
Africa

ZIMBABWE  ELECTRICITY  SUPPLY  AUTHORITY

ByAutorze'Rprsetaiv

Authorized  Representative

- 16  -

SCHEDULE  I

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
1. 
the  allocation  of  the
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  tlie  Loan, 
amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  for  items  so to be financed in  each Category:

Category 

(1) Equipment  and 
materials: 

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

11,000,000

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100%  of  foreign
expenditures

(b)  Equipment and 

36,000,000

(a)  Distribution 
equipment and
materials
under Part A
of  the Project

spare parts
under Part B
of  the Project

(c)  Workshop equip- 
ment under
Part D of the
Project

(d)  Vehicles under 

Part E of the
Project

ware and soft-
ware under
Part F of  the
Project

3,500,000

4,400,000

(e)  Computer hard- 

3,000,000

- 17 

-

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100%  of foreign
expenditures

Cateiory 

(2) Consultants' 
services  and 
training:

(a)  Under Part B 
of  the Project

(b)  Design services 
under Part C of
the Project

(c)  Under Part F 
of  the  Project

18,000,000

1,800,000

300,000

(d)  Institutional 

2,000,000

support under
Part G of the
Project

(3) Unallocated 

10,000,000

TOTAL 

90,000,000

For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule  the  term  "foreign
2. 
expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of  any  country
other  than  that  of  the  Guarantor  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from
the territory of  any country other than that of  the Guarantor.

1  above,  no
3.  Notwithstanding 
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date of this Agreement.

the  provisions  of  paragraph 

- 18  -

SCHEDULE  2

Description of the Project

The  objectives of  the Project  are  to assist the Borrower to:
(i) minimize the  shortage of  power by improving the reliability and
the
its  Hwange  Power  Plant; 
the  performance  of 
efficiency  of  its  distribution  system  through  lose  reduction
better
measures  and  thereby  to  satisfy  unmet  demand;  and 
manage  power  shortages  through  discriminative  load  shedding
measures.

increase 

(iii) 

(ii) 

'The Project consists  of the following parts, subject to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the Bank and  the Borrower may  agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: 

Distribution

Installation  of  about  53  MVA  of  33/11kV  distribution  and  30
1. 
MVA  of  132/11  kV  substation  transformer  capacity,  together  with
switchgear and control equipment.

Construction and reinforcement of  about 50 kilometers of  132
2. 
kV, and reinforcement of about  100 kilometers  of 33 kV and 75 kilo-
meters  of 11  kV distribution lines.

3. 

Installation of 7.5 MVAr of  capacitors.
Installation  of  ripple  control  devices  and  under  frequency
4. 
relays  for  peak  demand  management  and  load  shedding,  including
acquisition  of  equipment  and  spare  parts  needed  for  upgrading  of
existing ripple control equipment under measures.

Part B: 

Hwange Operations  and Upgrade

Improvement of the  reliability and performance of  the Hwange

Power Plant through:

(i)  provision of  about 310 man-months of  power plant
management  and  operations,  including  technical
further  strengthen  indigenous
auditing  to 
capability  and  ensure  sustainability  in  the
management of  the Hwange Power Station;

-

19  -

(ii) 

acquisition  of  materials  and  spares  needed 
operate  the power plant;

to

(iii)  provision  of  about  200  man-months  for  proprietary

maintenance  service  contracts;

(iv)  provision  of  services  and  equipment  for  major
overhaul  of five of  the  six Stage  I and  Stage II
units;

(v)  upgrading  the  capacity  of  the  cooling  water
systems,  including construction of  an additional
the  quality  of
tower 
cooling 
cooling water;

improving 

and 

(vi)  replacement/upgrading  of  the  pneumatic  process
control by an electronic system and improving its
instrumentation  and  refurbishment  of  the  air
conditioning plant and  equipment;

(vii)  acquisition  of  additional  station  transformer,
switchgear  equipment,  and  transformer  for  standby
diesel generating sets;  and

(viii)  supervision  of  the  implementation  of  the
the  preceding

upgrading  program  referred  to  in 
paragraphs  (v),  (vi) and  (vii).

Part C: 

Rwange Stage III

Carrying out of  studies to:  (i) review and update the design
and  cost  estimates  and  prepare bid  and  contract  documents  for  the
prepare  an  updated  project
Hwange  Stage  III  extension;  and 
document  for use in  arranging financing for  such an extension.

(ii) 

Part D: 

Workshop

Acquisition  of  tools,  machinery,  equipment  handling  cranes  and
electrical  testing  plant  and  equipment  for  the  mechanical  and
electrical workshops.

- 20  -

Part E: 

Vehicles

Acquisition  of  about  16  specialist  heavy-duty  vehicles  and
specialized  equipment  for  distribution works,  including  pick-ups  and
four-wheel  drive  trucks.

Part F: 

Management  Information System (MIS)

Acquisition of  additional  computer hardware and  software  to

1. 
complete the Borrower's MIS  improvement program.

Provision  for  computer-aided  cash-receipting  facilities  for

2. 
load limited consumers  in Bulawayo, Harare  and Chitungwiza.

Provision  of  technical  advisory  services  to  strengthen  MIS

3. 
operations.

Part  G: 

Institutional Strengthening

Carrying  out  of  a  training  program  to  strengthen  indigenous

1. 
capability in the technical and financial areas.

Carrying out of various studies critical to the operations of

2. 
the  Borrower.

The Project is  expected to be  completed by June 30,  1997.

- 21  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

Payment  of Principal
(expressed in  dollars)*

Date Payment Due 

September  15,  1999 
March 15,  2000 
September 15,  2000 
March 15,  2001 
September 15,  2001 
March 15,  2002 
September  15,  2002 
March  15,  2003 
September  15,  2003 
March 15,  2004 
September  15,  2004 
March 15,  2005 
September 15,  2005 
March 15,  2006 
September 15,  2006 
March  15,  2007 
September  15,  2007 
March  15,  2008 
September 15,  2008 
March 15,  2009 
September 15,  2009 
March 15,  2010 
September 15,  2010 
March 15,  2011 
September  15,  2011 
March 15,  2012 
September  15,  2012 
March 15,  2013 
September 15,  2013 
March 15,  2014 

1,705,000
1,765,000
1,830,000
1,900,000
1,965,000
2,040,000
2,110,000
2,190,000
2,270,000
2,350,000
2,435,000
2,525,000
2,615,000
2,710,000
2,810,000
2,915,000
3,020,000
3,130,000
3,240,000
3,360,000
3,480,000
3,610,000
3,740,000
3,875,000
4,015,000
4,165,000
4,315,000
4,470,000
4,635,000
4,810,000

* 

The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents
determined  as  of  the  respective  dates  of  withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections  3.04  and 4.03.

- 22  -

Premiums on Prepayment

the
Pursuant  to  Section  3.04  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions, 
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid  shall be  the percentage specified for the  applicable
time of prepayment  below:

Time  of  Prepayment 

Premium

(ex-
The  interest  rate 
pressed  as  a  percentage
per  annum)  applicable  to
the  Loan  on  the  day  of
multiplied
prepayment 
by:

Not more than three years 
before maturity

More than three years but 

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but 

not more than 11  years
before maturity

More  than 11  years but not 

more than 16  years
before maturity

More than 16  years but not 

more  than 18 years
before maturity

More  than  18  years  before 

maturity

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

- 23 

-

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants' Services

Section I.  Procurement  of Goods  and Works

Part A: 

International Competitive Bidding

Except  as  provided  in  Part  D  hereof,  goods  and  works  shall  be
1. 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  procedures
II  of  the
consistent  with  those  set  forth  in  Sections 
IDA  Credits"
"Guidelines  for  Procurement  under 
published by the  Bank in May 1992  (the Guidelines).

IBRD  Loans  and 

I  and 

(a)  For  fixed-price  contracts,  the  invitation  to  bid
referred to  in paragraph 2.13  of the Guidelines shall provide that,
is  delayed  beyond  the  original  bid  validity
when  contract  award 
period,  the  successful  bidder's  bid  price  will  be  increased  for  each
week of  delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable  to
the Bank, one  to be  applied to  all foreign currency  components  and
the other to the local currency  component of  the bid price. Such an
increase  shall not be taken into  account in the bid evaluation.

(b)  In  the  procurement  of  goods  and  works  in  accordance  with
this  Part A,  the  Borrower  shall  use the  relevant  standard bidding
documents  issued  by  the  Bank,  with  such  modifications  thereto  as  the
Bank  shall  have  agreed  to  be  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the
Project.  Where  no  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  have  been
issued by the  Bank, the  Borrower  shall use bidding  documents based
on other internationally recognized standard  forms agreed with the
Bank.

To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  shall  be  grouped  into  bid

2. 
packages estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $500,000 or more.

For  the  purposes  of  the  pre-shipment  inspection  of  goods
3. 
imported  under  the  Project,  no  price  verification  shall  be  conducted
in  respect of those goods  to which Part A of  this  Section applies.

Part B: 

Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
in  Zimbabwe  may  be
described  in  Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured 
granted a margin of preference  in accordance with, and subject to,

- 24  -

the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of  Appendix 2 thereto.

Part  C: 

Preference  for Domestic Contractors

In  the  procurement  of  works  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
the  Borrower  may  grant  a  margin  of
described  in  Part  A.1  hereof, 
preference  to  domestic  contractors  in  accordance  with,  and  subject
to,  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and
paragraph  5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part  D: 

Other Procurement Procedures

Contracts  for  the  supply  and  installation  of  proprietary  goods
1. 
under  Part  B  of  the  Project  shall  be  procured  on  a  negotiated  basis
from  the  original  manufacturer  or  authorized  representatives  of  such
goods,  on terms  satisfactory to the Bank provided however  that  the
aggregate  amount  of  such  contracts  shall  not  exceed  $29,000,000
equivalent.
2.  Workshop  equipment  which  cannot  be  grouped  in  bidding  packages
estimated  to  cost  $500,000  equivalent  or  more,  up  to  an  aggregate
amount  not  to  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000,  may  be  procured
under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of  price
of  at  least  three  suppliers  from  at
quotations  solicited  from  a  list 
in
least  two  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines, 
accordance with procedures  acceptable to  the Bank.

Part  E: 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Review of  invitations to bid and of proposed awards  and final

1. 
contracts:

(a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent  of  $500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth  in
paragraphs  2  and  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply.
Where payments for such contract are  to be made out  of the Special
Account,  such procedures  shall  be modified  to ensure  that the  two
conformed  copies  of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of  such contract.

(b)  With respect to  each contract not  governed by  the  pre-
ceding  paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  3  and  4  of

- 25  -

Appendix 1  to the  Guidelines  shall  apply. Where payments  for  such
contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, such procedures
shall  be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  the
contract  together  with  the  other  information  required  to  be
to  said  paragraph  3  shall  be
furnished 
furnished  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence  to  be  furnished
pursuant  to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

to  the  Bank  pursuant 

(c)  The provisions  of  the preceding  subparagraph (b) shall
not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account are to be made on the basis  of  statements of  expenditure.

The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes  of

2. 
paragraph 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of  Consultants

In  order  to  assist  the  Borrower  in 

the  carrying  out  of  the
1. 
Project,  the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be  selected  in
accordance with principles  and procedures satisfactory to  the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published
by  the  Bank  in  August  1981.  For  complex,  time-based  assignments,  the
Borrower  shall  employ  such  consultants  under  contracts  using  the
standard  form of  Contract  for Consultants'  Services  issued  by the
Bank,  with  such  modifications  as  shall  have  been  agreed  by  the  Bank.
Where  no relevant  standard  contract  documents  have been  issued by
the  Borrower  shall  use  other  standard  forms  agreed  upon
the  Bank, 
with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,
the provisions  of  the Consultants'  Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or  approval of  budgets,  short  lists,  selection procedures,
letters  of  invitation, proposals,  evaluation reports and  contracts
shall  not  apply  to  contracts  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000
equivalent  each.  However,  this  exception  to  prior  Bank  review  shall
not  apply  to  the  terms  of  reference for  such  contracts nor  to  the
employment of  individuals,  to  single source  selection of  firms,  to
assignments  of  a  critical  nature  as  reasonably  determined  by  the
Bank, and  to  amendments  of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000  equivalent  or  above.

- 26  -

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1. 

For the  purposes of  this  Schedule:

(a) 
(2)  set  forth  in 
Agreement;

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  Schedule  1  to  this

(b)  the  term  "eligible expenditures" means expenditures  in
respect  of  the  reasonable cost  of  goods  and  services  required  for
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance
with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to  this Agreement;  and

(c)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to  $4,000,000 to  be withdrawn from the Loan Account  and
deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a)  of
this Schedule.

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively
2. 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it  that
3. 
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to  replenish  the
Special Account shall be made as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the
Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan
Account  and  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts
as  the Borrower shall have requested.

(b) 

(i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals  as the Bank shall  specify.

(ii)  Prior  to,  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,
the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the

- 27  -

documents  and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to
paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or
payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
requested.  On  the  basis  of  each  such  request,  the
Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower, withdraw
from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall
have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been  shown  by
said  documents  and  other  evidence  to  have  been
paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by  said
documents  and other  evidence.

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
4. 
Account,  the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the  Bank  shall
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents  and  other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
5. 
Schedule, the  Bank  shall  not be  required to make  further  deposits
into  the Special Account:

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all
further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions  of Article V of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this
Agreement;  or

(b) 

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
less  the  amount  of  any  outstanding
to  the  eligible  Categories, 
special  comitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to  the Project,  shall equal
the equivalent of  twice  the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories
of  the  Project  shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Bank  shall
specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be
made  only  after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall  have  been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special

- 28  -

Account  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making
payments  for eligible expenditures.

(a)  If  the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
6. 
payment out  of the Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure
or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the
the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank
Bank, 
(A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request,  or
(B) deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so
request,  refund to the Bank) an amount equal to  the  amount of such
payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the  Special Account  shall  be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence  or made  such deposit or refund, as  the case may be.
If the  Bank shall have determined at any  time that  any
amount  outstanding  in the  Special Account will not  be required  to
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the  Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(b) 

(c)  The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the
Bank  all  or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit  in  the  Special
Account.

(d)  Refunds  to  the  Bank made pursuant  to paragraph  6  (a),
(b) and  (c) of  this Schedule  shall be credited to  the Loan Account
for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby  certify that  the foregoing  is a true  copy of

the original  in  the archives of the  International  Bank

for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

FOR SECRETARY

