LOAN NUMBER 3717  PE

Loan  Agreement

(Transport Rehabilitation Project)

REPUBLIC OF PERU

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,  1994

LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT,  dated 

,  1994,  between
REPUBLIC  OF  PERU  (the  Bar  over)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank).

-C 

(A) 

WHEREAS: 

as  to  the
feasibility and priority of  the Project described  in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement,  has  requested  the  Bank  to  assist  in  the  financing  of
the Project;

the  Borrower,  having  satisf4 sd  itself 

(B)  the Borrower intends to contract  from Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau  (KfW) a loan  (the KfW Loan) in an amount  equivalent to
DM 65,000,000  to  assist  in  financing  the  Project  on  the  terms  and
conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  (the  KfW  Loan  Agreement)  to  be
entered into between the  Borrower and  KfW;

(C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  OPEC  Fund  a
loan  (the OPEC Fund Loan) in an  amount equivalent to  $5,000,000 to
financing  the  Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set
assist  in 
forth in  an agreement  (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement)  to be  entered
into  between  the  Borrower  and  the  OPEC  Fund;  and

(D) 

Parts  B  and  D  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by,
respectively, Empresa  Nacional de  Ferrocarriles  S.A.  (ENAFER) and
the  Municipalidad de  Lima Metropolitana  (MLM) with  the  Borrower's
assistance and,  as part  of  such assistance,  the Borrower will make
available  to  ENAFER  and  MLM a  portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as
provided  in this  Agreement;  and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter  alia, of  the
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and
foregoing, 
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project  Agreements
(as  hereinafter defined) of  even date herewith;

NOW THEREFORE  the parties hereto hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions;  Definitions

Section 1.01.  The  "General Conditions Applicable  to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the Bank, dated January  1, 1985, with the
modifications  set  forth below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral part of  this Agreement:

-

2  -

(a) 

(b) 

The  last  sentence  of Section 3.02  is  deleted.

paragraph  (1)  and  a  new subparagraph  (k)  is  added to  read:

In  Section 6.02,  subparagraph (k)  is  relettered as sub-

"(k)  An  extraordinary  situation  shall have  arisen  under
which  any  further  withdrawals  under  the  Loan  would  be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,  Section 3 of
the  Bank's Articles  of Agreement."

Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the
several terms  defined in the General Conditions  and in  the Preamble
to  this  Agreement  have  the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  and
the  following additional  terms  have  the following meanings:

(a) 

"Beneficiaries"  means  applicants  for  Subloans  who meet
the eligibility  criteria set  forth in Schedule  2 to the MLM Project
Agreement;

(b) 

"CMCPL"  means  Cai  Municipal  de  Cr6dito  Popular  de  Lima,
10769

an  agency  of  the  Borrower  established  pursuant  to  Law  No. 
dated January  20,  1947,  as  amended;

(c) 

"CMCPL  Directive"  means  the  directive,  including  the
model  loan  contract,  to  be  issued  by  CMCPL  setting  forth  the
operational procedures and  terms and  conditions  for  Subloans  to  be
made under Part D.2  of the  Project;

(d) 

"CORPAC"  means  Corporaci6n  Peruana  de  Aeropuertos  y
Aviaci6n Comercial, created by Legislative Decree No. 99  of May 29,
1981;

(e) 

"Department" means  each  of  the  departments referred  to

in Article  189  of the  Borrower's constitution;

(f) 

"DM" means  Deutsche Mark,  the  currency  of  the  Federal

Republic  of  Germany;

(g) 

"ENAFER" means  Empresa Nacional  de  Ferrocarriles S.A.,

created by Legislative Decree No.  102  of May 29,  1981;

-

3  -

(h) 

"ENAFER Project  Agreement" means  the agreement  between
the  Bank  and  ENAFER  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be
schedules  and
amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all 
agreements  supplemental  to  the ENAFER Project Agreement;

(i) 

"ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means  the agreement
to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  aid  ENAFER  pursuant  to
section 3.01  (b) of this Agreement, as  the same may be amended from
schedules  to  the  ENAFER
time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all 
Subsidiary  Loan Agreement;

(j) 

"Environmental  Manual"  means  the  manual  for  contractors
to  be  approved  by  the  Bank  for  use  in  the  Project  in  accordance  with
the provisions of  Section 3.06(a)  of  this Agreement;

(k) 

"Highway  Repair  and  Maintenance  Project"  means  the
Borrower's  project for  repair  and maintenance of  national roads  as
described  in  Annex  A  of  the  Loan  Agreement  dated  January  7,  1992
between the  Borrower  and the Inter-American Development  Bank;

(1) 

"km" means  kilometers;

(m) 

"Lima  Airport"  means  Aeropuerto  Internacional  Jorge

ChAvez  owned by the  Borrower  and  operated by CORPAC;

(n) 

"Minister" means the Minister in  charge  of  MTCC;

"MLM"  means  the  Municipalidad  de  Lima  Metropolitana,
governed by Law No. 23853, published in  El Peruano of  June 9,  1984;

(o) 

(p) 

"MLM  Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the
Bank and MLM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  to  the  MLM
Project Agreement;

(q) 

"MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means  the  agreement to
be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  MLM  pursuant  to  Section
3.01  (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
schedules  to  the  MLM  Subsidiary
time,  and  such  term  includes  all 
Loan Agreement;

(r) 

"MTCC"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Transport,

Communications,  Housing and  Construction;

(s) 

"National  Roads  Laboratory"  means 

the  Direcci6n  de

Geologia y  Mecdnica  de  Suelos  of MTCC;

(t) 

"PCU"  means  the  "Unidad  de  Rehabilitaci6n  de
Infraestructura  de  Transportes",  a  project  coordination  unit
established  within  MTCC  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement  and
re.erred  to  in  Section 3.04  of  this  Agreement;

(u) 

"Project 
and the MLM  Project Agreement;

Agreements"  means  the  ENAFER  Project 

Agreement

(v) 

"Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the  Bank to  the Borrower pursuant to
1993  and  September  17,
dated  September  2, 
an  exchange  of  letters 
1993  between  the Borrower and  the Bank;

(w) 

"Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in

section  2.02  (c)  of this  Agreement;  and

(x) 

"Subloan" means  a  loan  made or to  be made  by CMCPL to

Beneficiaries  under Part D.2  of the  Project.

ARTICLE 

II

The Loan

Section  2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the  amount  of  one  hundred  fifty  million  dollars  ($150  million
equivalent),  being  the  sum  of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the
Loan,  with  each  withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of  such
withdrawal.

section  2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  withdrawn  from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so
agree,  to  be made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and
services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and to be  financed out of the proceeds of  the  Loan.

(b) 

Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from the  Loan Account  and  pay  to
the  amount  required  to  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the
itself 

-5-

Project  Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and  outstanding  as  of  such
date and to pay all unpaid charges  thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance  shall
thereupon  be cancelled.

in  dollars  a 

(c)  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,
a
open  and  maintain 
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  cond,..xons  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  seizure  or
attachment.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account
to
shall  be  made 
this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 

deposit  account 

-,ecial 

in 

Section  2.03.  The  Closing Date  shall be December  31,  1999 or
date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly

such  later 
notify the  Borrower of  such  later date.

Section  2.04.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  commitment
charge at  the rate of  three-fourths of  one  percent  (3/4 of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

Section  2.05. 

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay 

on  the
principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester,  plus  one-half  of  one percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On each of the
the  Borrower
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this 
accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
shall 
during  the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
applicable during  such Interest Period.

Agreement, 

interest 

interest 

pay 

(b) 

As  soon as  practicable after  the end  of  each  Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings  determined  in  respect of  such Semester.

(c) 

For  the purposes  of this  Section:

(i) 

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on  the  date  immediately  preceding  each  date
specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement,
beginning  with the  Interest Period  in  which this
Agreement  is  signed.

- 6  -

(ii) 

"Cost  of  Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the  cost,  as
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed
as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the  outstanding
June  30,
borrowings  of  the  Bank  drawn  down  after 
1982,  excluding  such  borrowings  or  portions
(A)
thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to  fund: 
loans  which  may
the  Bank's  investments;  and 
1989  bearing
be  made  by  the  Bank  after 
interest  rates  determined  otherwise  than  as
provided  in paragraph  (a) of this Section.

July  1, 

(B) 

(iii) 

"Semester"  means  the  first  six  months  or  the
second  six months of  a  calendar year.

(d) 

On  such  date  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  no  less  than  six
of

(b)  and  (c) 

(iii) 

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this Section  shall  be amended  to  read as  follows:

"(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal  amount of  the Loan withdrawn and  outstanding
from time to time, at a  rate  for each Quarter equal  to
the Cost  of Qualified Borrowings  determined in  respect
of  the preceding  Quarter, plus  one-half of  one percent
(1/2  of  1%).  On each of  the  dates  specified  in  Section
2.06  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  pay  interest
accrued on the  principal amount  outstanding during the
preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rates
applicable during  such  Interest Period."

"(b)  As  soon  as  practicable  after 

the  end  of  each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of  Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  such
Quarter."

"(c) 

'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period
commencing  on  January  1,  April  1,  July  1  or  October  1  in
a  calendar  year."

(iii) 

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually  on June  15  and December  15  in  each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of
the Loan  in  accordance with the  amortization  schedule  set  forth  in
Schedule 3  to this Agreement.

-7-

ARTICLE  III

Execution of  the Project

section  3.01. 

commitment  to  the
(a)  The  Borrower  declares  its 
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  and, to this end:

(i) 

(ii) 

shall,  through  the  PCU,  coordinate  all  Parts  of
the Project  and carry out Parts A,  C  and E  of the
Project  with due diligence  and  efficiency and  in
administrative,
conformity  with 
and
financial 
transportation, 
shall  provide,
environmental  practices 
facilities,
promptly 
services  and  other  resources  required  for  such
Parts  of  the  Project;  and

appropriate 
engineering, 
and 

as  needed, 

funds, 

the 

their 

upon  any  of  its

obligations  set  forth  in, 

the
cause  ENAFER  and  MLM  to  perform

without  limitation  or  restriction 
other  obligations  under  the  Loan  Agreement, 
Borrower  shall 
respectively,
all 
the ENAFER Project Agreement  and the  MLM Project
take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all
Agreement, 
funds,
of 
action, 
resources,
facilities, 
necessary  or  appropriate  to enable ENAFER and MLM
to  perform  such  obligations,  and  shall  not  take
be  takei,  any  action  which  would
or  permit  to 
prevent  or  interfere  with  such  performance.

the  provision 
other 

including 

services 

and 

shall 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  relend  a  portion  of  the  proceeds  of
the  Loan  to  ENAFER  and  MLM  under  subsidiary  loan  agreements  to  be
entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and,  respectively,  ENAFER  and  MLM,
under  terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have  been  approved  by  the
Bank.

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall exercise its  rights under the ENAFER
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  the  MLM  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in
of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests 
and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or  waive the  ENAFER Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  or  the  MLM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or  any provision thereof.

-8-

section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement of  the goods,  works  and consultants'  services  required
for  Parts  A,  C  and  E  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule
4 to  this Agreement.

Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations  set  forth in Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and
9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods
and services, plans  and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and  land acquisition,  respectively)  in respect  of  Parts  B  and  D  of
the  Project  shall  be  carried  out  by,  Vespectively,  ENAFER  and  MLM
pursuant  to  Section 2.03  of  the  Project Agreements.

staff 

inter 

include, 

sufficient  numbers 

Section  3.04.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  in  MTCC  the  project
and  with
in 
coordination  unit  with 
qualifications  and  experience  acceptable  to  the  Bank  in  accordance
with  terms  of  reference  for  the  PCU  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which
alia,  responsibility  for  overall  Project
shall 
coordination  (including  the  preparation  of  the  reports  referred  to
(a)  below,  processing  of  disbursement  requests  and
in  section  3.07 
managemunt  of  the  Special  Account)  and  for  the  execution  of  Parts  A,
C  and  E  of  the  Project  (including  the  procurement  of  goods,  works
supervision  of  suppliers,
and  services,  progress  monitoring, 
contractors  and  consultants,  and  management  of  the  account  referred
to  in Section  4.02  of this Agreement).

Section  3.05. 

(a)  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  proper  coor-
under  Part  C  of  the  Project  with  the
dination  of  the  activities 
shall
operations  of  CORPAC  at  Lima  Airpo.t  and, 
establish  a  coordinating  committee  to  be  chaired  by  the  Minister  or
Vice-Minister  of  MTCC.

to  that 

end, 

(b) 

rehabilitation 

Prior  to  signing  the  construction  contract 
(1) 

runway 
(i) 
Project,  the  Borrower 
advise  the  Minister  or  the  Vice-Minister  for  Transport;  and 
engage  consultants for  construction  supervision.

of  Lima  Airport  under  Part  C 
shall: 

engage  an  independent  expert  to

for  the
of  the

(ii)

section 3.06.  (a) The Borrower  shall  require  all  contractors
carrying  out  works  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  to use  an  environ-
mental manual acceptable to the Bank, said manual to  include, inter
alia:  (i)  the  applicable  environmental  and  natural  resource
legislation  and  regulations;  (ii)  explicit  prohibitions  and
environmental  behavior  guidelines  for  work  crews,  especially  for

-

9  -

(iii) 

procedures  for  proper  selection
work  along  sensitive  areas; 
gravel  extraction  along
and  management  of  quarries,  borrow  pits, 
rivers,  and  other  sources  of  construction  material,  and  eventual
rehabilitation  of  affected  areas  through  soil  replacement  and
revegetation;  (iv)  procedures  for  selection  of  camp  sites,
management of  camp wastes,  and guidelines  for camp  dismantling and
abandonment;  (v) procedures for  proper disposal of  excavated earth
and  spoil material  to  avoid contaminating streams  or  causing other
unnecessary  damage;  and  (vi)  procedures  for  proper  disposal  of  waste
from  construction machinery and equipment.

(i) 

(b) 

alia, 

inter 

the  following: 

the  transport  sector; 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  within  MTCC  an  environmental
office with  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall
advising  the  Minister  on
include, 
establishing
environmental  concerns  in 
environmental  policies  and  procedures  for  transport  projects;  (iii)
and  design
incorporating  environmental  objectives  in 
studies;  (iv) ensuring that all bidding documents  and contracts for
(v)
Part  A  of  the  Project  incorporate  the  Environmental  Manual; 
monitoring compliance with the Environmental Manual by contractors;
and  (vi)  monitoring  environmental  factors  and  maintaining  a  data
base. Said office shall be staffed with full-time personnel in such
number  and  with  such  qualifications  and  experience  as  shall  be
acceptable to the  Bank.

feasibility 

(ii) 

Section  3.07.  Without 

limitation  upon  the  provisions  of
Section  9.01  of  the  General  conditions,  the  Borrower  shall,  through
the PCU:

format 

progress  achieved  against  agreed 

to  the  Bank  (said 
(i) 

(a)  prepare quarterly progress reports for all Parts of the
in  a  format
Project,  including  the  Parts  executed  by  ENAFER  and  MLM, 
to  include  the  following
acceptable 
implementation
subjects: 
updated  implementation
indicators and  disbursement schedules;  (ii) 
indicators  and  disbursement  schedules  for  the  remainder  of  the
status  of  compliance  with  the  covenants  contained  in
Project;  (iii) 
the  Loan  Agreement,  the  ENAFER  Project  Agreement  and  the  MLM  Project
Agreement;  and  (iv) detailed work programs  and action plans for the
next two  quarters  and  forward these reports  to  the  Bank  within  one
month of  the end of  each quarter;

(b) 

annually conduct with the Bank, ENAFER and MLM a formal

review  of  the  performance  of  the  Project  and  the  attainment  of  its
objectives  and  invite  KfW and  the OPEC  Fund to  participate in  such
reviews;

-

10  -

(c) 

organize  a  thorough  mid-term  review  of  the  Project  with
months
the  Bank,  ENAFER  and  MLM  at  a  time  not  later 
the  date  of  this  Agreement  in  order  to:  (i) assess  progress  in
after 
Project  implementation  on  the  basis  of  implementation  indicators
and  (ii)  consider  proposals  for
acceptable  to  the  Bank; 
restructuring  or  reorienting  the  Project;  and  invite  KfW  and  the
OPEC  Fund  to  participate  in  such  review;  and

than  thirty 

(d)  promptly  take  all 

such  action,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
as  shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or
the  attainment  of  its  objectives  if,  as  a  result  of  any  of  the
annual  reviews  referred  to  in  subparagraph  (b)  above  or  the  mid-term
review  referred  to  in  subparagraph  (c)  above,  progress  in  the
execution of  the Project or  in the achievement of its  objectives is
not  satisfactory to  the Bank.

Section  3.08.  The  Borrower,  through  the  PCU,  shall  forward  to
review  and  comment  an  action  plan  for  improving

the  Bank  for  its 
MTCC's  roads  administration  and  finance by December  31,  1994.

(a) 

(ii) 

of  this  Agreement, 

Section  3.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of
for  the  purpose  of  the
section  3.01 
(2)  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure
execution  of  Part  B 
the  reform  of  ENAFER  shall  be  based  on  a  division  of  ENAFER
that 
into at  least three  separate operating divisions, with the eventual
division  of  ENAFER  into  legally  separate  companies  at  which  time  the
Borrower,  together  with  ENAFER,  shall  present  to  the  Bank  a  proposal
for  the  modification  of  this  Agreement,  the  ENAFER  Project  Agreement
and the  ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

Section  3.10.  For the  purpose of the  execution of  Part A  (2)
of  the  Project,  derelict  bridges  whose reconstruction  is  estimated
to cost more than $500,000 equivalent  shall not be replaced by MTCC
unless  the  reconstruction  will  yield  an  inzernal  economic  rate  of
return  in  excess  of  20  percent,  said  rate  to  be  calculated  in
accordance  with  a  methodology  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  MTCC  shall
furnish the  Bank evidence thereof  satifactory to the  Bank.

Section 3.11.  The Borrower, through the  PCU, shall employ and
then  second  to  ENAFER  for  the  execution  of  Part  B(I)  of  the  Project,
a  coordinator, a mechanical engineer  and a track engineer,  all  with
terms of reference and qualifications  and experience  acceptable to
the Bank  The terms  of reference for the coordinator shall  include
responsibility  for:  (a) management  of the procurement  of  works and
including  quality  control  of
goods  for  Part  B(1)  of  the  Project, 

and  (b)  payment  of  suppliers
goods  received  and  their 
and  contractors  for  Part  B(1)  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with
their contract.

installation; 

-

11  -

ARTICLE  IV

Financial  Covenants

section  4.01.  (a) The  Borrower  shall maintain or  cause to  be
in
maintained  records  and  separate  accounts  adequate  to  reflect 
accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices  the operations,  resources
and  expenditures  in respect  of  Parts  A,  C  and E  of  the Project  of
the  departments  or  agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible  for  carrying
out  said Parts  of the Project  or any part thereof.

(b) 

The Borrower  shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
including  those
paragraph  (a)  of  this 
year
for  the  Special  Account, 
audited,  in  accordance with  appropriate  auditing
principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to the  Bank;

for  each  fiscal 

Section, 

furnish to  the  Bank as  soon  as  available,  but  in
any  case not  later than six  months after  the end
the  report  of  such  audit  by
of  each  such  year, 
said  auditors,  of  such  scope  and  in  such detail
as the  Bank shall  have  reasonably requested;  and

(iii)  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information
concerning  said  records  and  accounts  and  the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably  request.

(c) 

For  all  expenditures  with  respect  to  which  withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall:

(i) 

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained, 
with paragraph (a)  of  this 
accounts reflecting such  expenditures;

in  accordance
Section,  records  and

(ii) 

the  Bank
retain,  until 
has  received  the  audit  report  for  the  fiscal  year

at  least  one  year  after 

- 12  -

in  which  the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account  or  payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  was
invoices,
records  (contracts,  orders, 
all 
made, 
receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing
bills, 
such  expenditures;

(iii) 

enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine  such
records;  and

(iv) 

in 

the  annual  audit  referred  to 

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
in
included 
paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the  report
of  such  audit  contains  a  separate  opinion  by said
of
auditors 
year,
expenditure  submitted  during  such 
together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can  be
relied upon to  support  the related withdrawals.

to  whether 

statements 

fiscal 

the 

as 

Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  open  a  separate  account  in
local  currency  in  a  commercial  bank  and  shall  deposit  at  the
beginning  of  each month  into that account  such  amounts  as  shall  be
necessary  to  cover  anticipated  payments  during  that  month  for
expenditures on  account  of  goods, works or  services procured  or to
be procured under Parts  A,  C  and E  of  the  Project.

Section  4.03.  The Borrower  shall  deposit  at  the beginning of
each  month  in  the  local  currency  account  referred  to  in  Section  4.02
of  the ENAFER Project  Agreement  such amounts as  shall be necessary
to  cover  anticipated  payments  during  that  month  for  expenditures  on
account  of  goods,  works  or  services  procured  or  to  be  procured  under
Part  B.1  of  the  Project  and  any  expenditures  required  for  the
execution of  Part B.2 of  the Project.

(b)  present  each  year  a  budget  request  to 

Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:  (a) maintain its  policy of
levying  road  user  charges  in  excess  of  road  maintenance
its
expenditures;  and 
in  an  amount  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  said  approval  to  be
legislature 
than  October  31  of  each  year  and  said  amount  to  be
sought  not  later 
not  less  than $50,000,000 equivalent,  for  the purpose of  financing
the  maintenance  of  national  roads  other  than  those  covered  under
Part  A  of  the  Project  and  those  covered  under  the  Highway  Repair  and
Maintenance  Project  and  thereafter  release  such  funds  for  such
purpose in  timely fashion.

Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall,  on a  schedule acceptable to
the  Bank,  assume  ENAFER's  debt  and  provide,  or  cause  to  be  provided,
the necessary  funds  for  clearance of ENAFER's  arrears  with utility
companies.

- 13  -

ARTICLE  V

Remedies of  the Bank

Section  5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02 

(1)  of  the  General

Conditions, the  following  additional  events  are  specified:

(a) 

ENAFER  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its

after 

the
obligations  under  the  ENAFER  Project  Agreement. 
consultation  with  and  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,
Bank  may, 
only suspend  in whole or  in part the  right of the  Borrower to make
withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  for  expenditures  incurred  with
respect to  Part B  of the  Project.

In  such  case, 

(b) 

MLM shall have failed to perform any of  its obligations
under the  MLM Project  Agreement.  In  such case,  the  Bank may,  after
consultation  with  and  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  only  suspend  in
whole or  in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the  Loan  Account  for  expenditures  incurred  with  respect  to  Part  D  of
the  Project.

(c) 

As  a  result 

of  events  which  have  occurred  after 

the  date
of  the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation  shall have arisen
which  shall make  it  improbable that  ENAFER or  MLM  will  be  able  to
perform their obligations  under,  respectively,  the  ENAFER  Project
Agreement  or  the  MLM  Project  Agreement.  For  the  purpose  of  this
paragraph,  the  division  of  ENAFER  into  legally  separate  companies  as
well  as  the  privatization  of  ENAFER  or  of  any  such  successor
companies  shall be deemed to be  an extraordinary  situation.

section  5.02.  Pursuant  to  Section  7.01 

(h)  of  the  General
the  following  additional  events  are  specified  namely
Conditions, 
that the events  specified in paragraphs  (a) and  (b) of Section 5.01
of  this  Agreement  shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for  a  period  of
notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given  by  the  Bank  to
sixty  days  after 
the Borrower.

-

14  -

ARTICLE  VI

Effective  Date;  Termination

Section  6.01.  The  following  events  are  specified  as  additional
the

of  the  Loan  Agreement  within 

conditions 
meaning of  Section  12.01  (c) of  the General  Conditions:

to 

the 

effectiveness 

(a) 

the  local  currency  accounts  referred  to  in  Section  4.02
of  this  Agreement,  Section  3.02  of  the  MLM  Project  Agreement  and
Section  4.02 of  the ENAFER Project Agreement have been  opened;  and

(b) 

the  PCU  has  been  fully  staffed  in  accordance  with  the

provisions  of  Section  3.04 of  this Agreement.

Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as  additional
(c)  of  the  General
matters,  within  the  meaning  of  Section  12.02 
Conditions,  to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions  to  be
furnished  to the  Bank:

(a) 

that  the  ENAFER  Project  Agreement  has  been  duly
is

by  ENAFER,  has  been  duly  executed,  and 

authorized  or  ratified 
legally  binding  upon  ENAFER  in  accordance  with  its 

terms;  and

(b) 

that  the  MLM  Project  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized
or  ratified by  MLM, has  been  duly executed,  and  is  legally binding
upon MLM  in  accordance  with  its 

terms.

Section  6.03.  The  date 

1
the  purposes  offSection  12.04  of 

for 

,

b 

/ 

is 

hereby
the  General

specified 
Conditions.

ARTICLE  VII

Representatives of the Borrower;  Addresses

Section  7.01.  The  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance  of  the
is  designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the

Borrower 
purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the General Conditions.

Section  7.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the

purposes  of  Section  11.01  of  the General  Conditions:

- 15  -

For the Borrower:

Minister of  Economy and  Finance
Ministry of Economy and  Finance
Jir6n Junin  319
Lima  1,  Peru

For the Bank:

International  Bank  for

Reconstruction  and  Development

1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of  America

Cable  address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (RCA)

82987  (FTCC)
64145  (wI)  or
197688  (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through  their
duly authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be
of  Columbia,  United
signed  in 
States  of America,  as  of  the day  and year  first  above  written.

respective  names  in  the  District 

their 

- 16  -

REPUBLIC OF  PERU

'26Av
Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

By

Regiona  Vice  President
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean

-

17  -

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal of the  Proceeds of the  Loan

The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
1. 
the  allocation  of  the
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  for  items  so  to be  financed  in each Category:

Amount  of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

% of
Expenditures
to be Financed

63,000,000 

80%

1,100,000 

80%

17,000,000 

70%

1,700,000 

70%

Category 

(1) Civil  works  under 
Part A  of  the
Project

(2) Civil  works  under 
Part B  of  the
Project

(3) Civil works  under 
Part C  of  the
Project

(4) Civil  works under 
Part  D  of  the
Project

materials  under 
Parts  A  and  C 
of  the  Project 

materials  under 
Part  B  of  the 
Project 

(7) Subloans  under 

Part D  of  the 
Project 

(5)  Equipment and 

3,100,000 

(6) Equipment  and 

29,000,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures  and
75% of  local
expenditures

100% of  foreign
expenditures  and
75%  of  local
expenditures

600,000 

100% of  amounts
disbursed by CMCPL
under  Subloans

-

18  -

Amount of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

%  of
Expenditures
to be  Financed

21,000,000 

100%

Category 

(8) Design  studies, 
construction
supervision,
other  consult-
ing  services
and  training

(9) Refunding of 
Project 
Preparation 
Advance 

1,500,000 

Amounts due
pursuant to
Section 2.02  (b)
of  this Agreement

(10)Unallocated 

12,000,000

TOTAL 

150,000,000

2. 

For the  purposes of  this  Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in
of  the  Borrower  for
the  currency  of  any  country  other  than  that 
goods  or  services  supplied  from the  territory  of  any country other
than that  of  the Borrower;. and

(b) 

the  term  "local  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in  the
currency of the Borrower  or  for goods or  services  supplied  from the
territory of  the Borrower.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  no
respect  of  payments  made  for

shall  be  made 

in 

3. 
withdrawals 
expenditures:

(a) 

prior  to  the  date  of  this  agreement,  except  that
withdrawals under Categories  (2) and  (6) in  an aggregate amount not
in  an  aggregate
exceeding  $700,000  equivalent  and  under  Category  (8) 
amount not  exceeding  $500,000 equivalent may be made on account of
payments  made  for expenditures before that  date but  after  December
1, 1993;

(b) 

under categories  (2)  and  (6) of  the table in paragraph
the  Bank  has  received  the  action  plan,  acceptable
referred  to  in  Section  2.07  of  the  ENAFER  Project  Agreement;

(i) 

1 above  until: 
to  it, 

-

19  -

(it)  the Bank has  received the audit  report  for  1993  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Section  4.01(b)  of  the  ENAFER  Project
the ENAFER Subsidiary  Loan Agreement has been
Agreement;  and  (iii) 
executed  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and  ENAFER  and  the  Bank  has
received  an  opinion  or  opinions,  within  the  meaning  of  Section
12.02(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  that  the  ENAFER  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement  has been duly authorized  or  ratified by the  Borrower and
legally  binding  upon  the
ENAFER,  has  been  duly  executed,  and 
Borrower  and ENAFER  in  accordance with its  terms;

is 

(c) 

under  categories  (4)  and 

(7)  of  the  table  in  paragraph
the  MLM  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed  on
1 above  until 
behalf of  the Borrower  and MLM and  the  Bank  has  received  an  opinion
or  opinions, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02(c)  of the General
Conditions,  that  the  MLM  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  MLM,  has  been  duly
executed,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  MLM  in
accordance with its terms;  and

(d) 

under  category  (7)  of  the  table  in  paragraph  1 above, 

in
addition  to  the  conditions  specified  in  the  preceding  paragraph  (c),
until 
provisions of  Secton 2.07  of  the MLM Project Agreement.

the  CMCPL  Directive  has  been  issued  in  accordance  with  the

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account  to be
4. 
made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure  for  expenditures
under contracts  for  goods  not  exceeding  $200,000 equivalent, works
not  exceeding  $1,000,000  equivalent,  and  services  not  exceeding
$100,000  equivalent,  under  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Bank
shall  specify  by notice to the  Borrower.

- 20  -

SCHEDULE  2

Description of the  Project

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are:  (i)  to  rehabilitate

transport  infrastructure;  (ii) 

essential 
reforms  in  the  road  and  railway  subsectors  with  a  view  to  achieving
improved resource use and  sustainable development;  and  (iii) to  lay
the  groundwork  for  future  projects  to  improve  road management,  to
increase  private  participation  in  the  transport  sector,  and  to
improve  mobility  of  the  poor.

to  implement  institutional

The Project  consists  of  the  following parts,  subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon
from time  to time  to  achieve  such objectives:

Part A: 

Road Rehabilitation and  Maintenance

(1) 

Road Rehabilitation

(a)  Rehabilitation  of  the  following  national  road  sections:

(i) 

Corral Quemado  - Rio Nieva  (about  176  km)

(ii) 

Rio Nieva  - Rioja  (about 100  km)

(iii) 

Rioja - Tarapoto  (about 135  km)

(iv) 

Huhnuco  - Tingo  Maria  (about  120  km)

(v) 

Tarma - La Merced  (about 72  km)

(vi) 

La Merced - Satipo  (about 122  km)

(b)  Detailed  engineering  for  rehabilitation 

of the  following

national road  sections:

(i) 

Tingo Maria - Pucallpa  (about  256  km)

(ii) 

Villa Rica - Puente Chanchamayo  (about 38  km)

(iii) 

such  other  national  road  sections  as  may  be
acceptable to the Bank.

- 21  -

(2) 

Bridge  Program

Acquisition  of  a  minimum  stock  of  Bailey  bridges,  dismantling
and  transport  to  an  appropriate  storage  location  of  temporary  Bailey
bridges  and their  replacement by permanent  structures,  and,  on the
basis of  the  findings of  a  general  study of  the physical  condition
for  reconstruction  of  existing  bridges  in  the  regions
and  priorities 
served by the roads to be rehabilitated under Part A  (1)  above, the
reconstruction  of  derelict  bridges.

(3) 

Road Maintenance Program

Execution of a pilot road maintenance program on about 620  km
of  roads  feeding  directly  into  the  Corral  Quemado-Rioja-Tarapoto
(i)  provide  a  basis  for  estimating  unit
corridor  with  a  view  to: 
by  contract;  (ii)
costs  to  perform  typical  maintenance  activities 
test and promote the use of micro-enterprises  for road maintenance;
examine  the  deterioration  pattern  of  various  road  surface
(iii) 
types  under  alternative  maintenance  strategies;  (iv)  provide  a  focus
for field training;  and  (v)  lay  the foundation for  a  decentralized
road maintenance strategy.

(4) 

Traffic  Safety Program

(a)  Formulation  of  a  comprehensive  traffic 

safety  strategy.

(b)  Acquisition  and  use  of  urgently  needed  safety materials.

(c) 

of  the  most  urgently  needed  investments  in
safety  improvements  in  accordance  with  the  strategy  established
pursuant to subparagraph  (a) above.

Initiation 

(5)  Institutional  Improvement Program

Improvement  of  the  capacity  of  the  General  Directorate  of
Roads  of  MTCC  to  plan,  cost,  carry  out  and  control  primary  road
network maintenance  through, inter alia:  (a) the  carrying out  of  a
network inventory including a pavement  surface condition survey and
traffic  volume  counts  over  the  national  road  system;  (b)  esta-
blishment  of  agencies  responsible  for  detailed  design,  budgeting,
at  the  level
implementation  and  monitoring  of  maintenance  activities 
of  each  Department;  and  (c)  strengthening  of  the  National  Roads
Laboratory in terms  of  equipment and staffing.

- 22  -

Part  B: 

Railway Rehabilitation  and Restructuring

Preparation  for the privatization of  ENAFER through:

(a) 

execution  of  the  most  urgently  needed  investments  to
keep ENAFER operating during the preparation of  its  privatization,
locomotive  and  wagon
including: 
rehabilitation;  (iii) lengthening of  switchbacks;  (iv)  acquisition
and  use  of  workshop  and  track  maintenance  equipment;  (v)  tele-
communication  works;  and  (vi)  execution  of  an  environmental  and
safety study  of the  Cuzco  - Machu Picchu  line;  and

track  rehabilitation; 

(ii) 

(i) 

(b) 

execution  of  a  plan  of  action  for  the  reform  of  ENAFER's

managerial,  operational and  financial  framework.

Part  C: 

Lima Airport  Rehabilitation

(a) 

Rehabilitation  of  the  main runway.

(b) 

Rehabilitation  of the taxiway.

(c) 

Installation 

of  lighting  and  instrument  landing  systems.

Part 

D: 

Pilot Project  for  Non-motorized Transport

Execution  of  a  pilot 

project  for  non-motorized  transport  in

the  Lima-Callao induEm-rial  area, consisting of:

(a) 

construction  of  four  trunk bicycle-ways  together  with
bicycle-lanes  providing  connections  to  low  and  middle  income
residential  areas  and parking  facilities;

provision  of  Sub-loans  for  the  purchase  of  low-cost
bicycles through the Caia  Municipal de Cr6dito Popular de Lima;  and

(b) 

(c) 

carrying out of  educational  and promotional  campaigns.

- 23  -

Part  E: 

Studies.  Technical  Assistance  and Training

(a) 

Policy and  Investment  Studies

Execution  of  a program of  policy and investment  studies

with  respect  to: 
organizational  reform  of  MTCC;  and 
transportation  projects.

(i)  road  administration  and  finance;  (ii)
preparation  of  future

(iii) 

(b) 

Project  Support

Execution  of  a program  of  technical  assistance  to  the  MTCC,
the  PCU,  ENAFER  and MLM  in direct  support  of  the  execution of  the
Project.

(c) 

Training

Execution  of  a training program, both  in  Peru  and  abroad,  in
railway  management  and  privatization,  and  other

road  management, 
areas  necessary  for  the  proper  execution  of  the  Project.

The  Project  is  expected to be  completed by June 30,  1999.

- 24  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

Payment  of  Principal
(expressed in  dollars)*

Date Payment  Due 

December  15,  1999 
June  15,  2000 
December  15,  2000 
June 15,  2001 
December  15,  2001 
June  15,  2002 
December  15,  2002 
June  15,  2003 
December 15,  2003 
June  15,  2004 
December  15,  2004 
June  15,  2005 
December  15,  2005 
June  15,  2006 
December  15,  2006 
June  15,  2007 
December  15,  2007 
June  15,  2008 
December  15,  2008 
June  15,  2009 
December  15,  2009 
June 15,  2010 
December  15,  2010 
June  15,  2011 
December  15,  2011 
June 15,  2012 
December  15,  2012 
June  15,  2013 
December  15,  2013 
June  15,  2014 

2,840,000
2,945,000
3,050,000
3,165,000
3,280,000
3,395,000
3,520,000
3,650,000
3,780,000
3,920,000
4,060,000
4,210,000
4,360,000
4,520,000
4,685,000
4,855,000
5,030,000
5,215,000
5,405,000
5,600,000
5,805,000
6,015,000
6,235,000
6,460,000
6,695,000
6,940,000
7,190,000
7,450,000
7,725,000
8,000,000

* 

The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents
determined  as  of  the  respective  dates  of  withdrawal.  See
General  Conditions,  Sections  3.04  and  4.03.

- 25  -

Premiums  on  Prepayment

Pursuant  to  Section  3.04  (b) of  the General  Conditions,  the
premium  payable  on  the  principal  amount  of  any  maturity  of  the  Loan
to  be prepaid shall be  the percentage  specified  for the applicable
time of  prepayment below:

Time of  Prepayment 

Premium

The  interest  rate  (expressed
as  a  percentage  per  annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day  of  prepayment  multiplied
by:

Not more than three years 
before maturity

More than three years  but 

not more than  six years
before maturity

More than  six  years  but 

not more than  11  years
before maturity

More than  11  years  but  not 

more than  16  years
before maturity

More than  16  years but  not 

more than  18  years
before maturity

More than 18 years before 

maturity

0.15

0.30

0.55

0.80

0.90

1.00

- 26  -

SCHEDULE  4

Procurement  and  Consultants'  Lo rvices

Section I.  Procurement  of  Goods  and Works

Part A: 

International Competitive Bidding

Except  as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
1. 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance  with  procedures
II  of  the
consistent  with  those  set  forth 
"Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits"
published by the Bank  in May  1992  (the Guidelines).

in  Sections 

I  and 

(a)  For  fixed-price  contracts,  the  invitation  to  bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of  the Guidelines shall provide that,
is  delayed  beyond  the  original  bid  validity
when  contract  award 
period,  the  successful  bidder's  bid  price  will  be  increased  for  each
week of  delay by two predisclosed correction  factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all  foreign currency components and
the  other  to  the  local  currency  component  of  the  bid  price.  Such
increase  shall  not be taken  into account  in  the bid evaluation.

(b) 

In  the  procurement  of  goods  and  works  in  accordance  with
this  Part  A, the  Borrower  shall  use the  relevant standard  bidding
documents  issued  by  the  Bank,  with  such  modifications  thereto  as  the
Bank  shall  have  agreed  to  be  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the
Project.  Where  no  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  have  been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall  use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms  agreed with the
Bank.

Bidders  for  works  to  be  carried  out  under  Parts  A  and  C  of  the
2. 
Project  and  which  are  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$10,000,000 or more shall be  prequalified as  provided in paragraph
2.10 of  the Guidelines.

To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall  be
3. 
grouped  into  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$200,000 or  more.

Part  B: 

Preference  for Domestic Manufacturers

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
in  Peru  may  be

in  Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured 

described 

- 27  -

granted a margin of preference  in accordance with,  and  subject to,
the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and
paragraphs  1 through 4 of Appendix  2 thereto.

Part C: 

Other Procurement Procedures

Specialized equipment with a small number of suppliers may be
1. 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  through  limited  international
bidding  procedures  on  the  basis  of  evaluation  and  comparison  of  bids
invited from a list  satisfactory to the Bank of qualified suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines  and  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the  Guidelines  (excluding
paragraphs 2.8,  2.9, 2.55 and  2.56 thereof).

to  cost 

the  equivalent  of 

than
2.  Works  estimated 
$3,000,000,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  $19,000,000,  and
equipment  and  materials  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  less
than  $200,000  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  equIvalent  to
$700,000,  may be procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures  satisfactory to the  Bank.

less 

3.  Works  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000  or  less  per
contract,  up to  an  aggregate amount  equivalent  to  $2,000,000, and
equipment  and  materials  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $25,000
or  less  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  equivalent  to
$500,000, may be procured under  contracts  awarded on  the basis  of
comparison  of  price  quotations  obtained  from  at  least  three
in
contractors  or  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines, 
accordance with procedures acceptable  to the Bank.

Part D: 

Review by the Bank of  Procurement  Decisions

1. 

Review of  prequalification:

With  respect  to  the  prequalification  of  bidders  as  provided  in
I  of

the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraph 

Part  A  (2)  hereof, 
Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply.

Review of  invitations to bid and of proposed  awards and final

2. 
contracts:

(a)  With  respect  to:  (i)  each  contract  for  works  estimated
each  contract  for
to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000  or  more;  (ii) 
goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $200,000  or  more;  and

- 28  -

(iii) the first  contract for works and the  first  contract  for goods
estimated to cost  less than the amounts set  forth  in. respectively,
in
the  procedures  set  forth 
above, 
subparagraphe  (i)  and 
paragraphs  2 and 4 of  Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall  apply.

(ii) 

(b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall  apply.

(c)  The provisions of  the preceding subparagraph  (b) shall
not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account  are to be made on the basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.
The  figure  of  10%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes  of

3. 
paragraph 4 of Appendix  1 to  the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment  of Consultants

In  order  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out  Parts  A,  C  and
1. 
E  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  employ  consultants  whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment
shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in  accordance with principles  and procedures  satisfactory
to  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use  of
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as
Executing  Agency"  published  by  the  Bank  in  August  1981  (the
the
Consultant  Guidelines).  For  complex, 
Borrower  shall  employ  such  consultants  under  contracts  using  the
standard  form of  contract  for consultants'  services  issued by the
Bank,  with  such  modifications  as  shall  have  been  agreed  by  the  Bank.
Where no  relevant  standard documents  have been  issued by the  Bank,
the  Borrower  shall  use  other  standard  forms  agreed  with  the  Bank.

time-based  assignments, 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,
2. 
the  provisions  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  requiring  prior  Bank
review  or  approval  of  budgets,  short  lists,  selection procedures,
letters  of  invitation,  proposals,  evaluation  reports  and  contracts,
shall not  apply to:  (a) contracts  for the employment  of  consulting
firms estimated to cost  less than  $100,000  equivalent each;  or  (b)
contracts  for the employment of  individuals estimated to  cost  less
than  $50,000  equivalent  each.  However,  said  exceptions  to  prior  Bank
(a)  the  terms  of  reference  for  such
review  shall  not  apply  to: 
contracts;  (b) single-source  selection  of  consulting  firms;  (c)
assignments of  a critical  nature,  as  reasonably determined  by the
Bank;  (d) amendments to contracts  for the employment of  consulting

- 29  -

firms  raising  the  contract  value  to  $100,000  equivalent  or  above;  or
(e)  amendments  to  contracts  for  the  employment  of  individual
consultants  raising  the  contract  value  to  $50,000  equivalent  or
above.

- 30  -

SCHEDULE  5

Special  Account

1. 

For the  purposes  of this  Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories  (1)
through  (8)  set  forth  in the table  in paragraph  1 of  Schedule  1 to
this Agreement;  and

(b) 

the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent  to  $5 million  to be withdrawn from  the Loan Account  and
of
deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
this Schedule.

(a) 

Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively
2. 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

After  the Bank has  received evidence  satisfactory to  it that

3. 
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened  and  that  procedures  for  its
operation,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  have  been  established,
withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals
to  replenish the  Special  Account  shall  be made  as  follows:

(a) 

For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a
deposit  or deposits which do not  exceed the aggregate amount of  the
Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  the
Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan
Account  and  deposit  in  the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as
the Borrower  shall have requested.

(b) 

(i) 

For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish to the Bank requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals  as the Bank shall  specify.

(ii) 

Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,
the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the
documents  and  other  evidence  required  pursuant
to paragraph  4 of  this Schedule  for the payment
or  payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
requested.  On  the  basis  of  each  such  request,
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,

- 31  -

withdraw from the Loan Account  and  deposit into
the  Special Account  such amount as  the Borrower
shall  have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been
to
shown  by  said  documents  and  other  evidence 
have  been  paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for
eligible expenditures.

All  such  deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan
Account  under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in  the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall have been justified by  said
documents and other  evidence.

the  Borrower  shall,  at  such 

For  each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
4. 
the  Bank  shall
Account, 
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents  and  other
evidence  showing  that 
expenditures.

such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible

time  as 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
the  Bank  shall  not  be  required  to  make  further  deposits

5. 
Schedule, 
into the Special Account:

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all
from  the

further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly 
Loan Account  in  accordance with the  provisions of Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this
Agreement;  or

(b) 

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount  of  any  outstanding
special  commitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02
of  the General  Conditions with respect  to the Project,  shall equal
the  equivalent of  twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  remaining
Thereafter,  withdrawal 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall  follow such procedures as the Bank shall  specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals  shall be made only after and
such
the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied 
to  the  extent  that 
amounts  remaining on deposit  in the Special  Account  as  of the  date
of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.

that 

all 

If  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at  any  time  that  any
6. 
payment  out  of  the  Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an expenditure

(a) 

- 32  -

in 

an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  this
or 
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the
Bank, the  Borrower shall,  promptly  upon notice  from the  Bank:  (A)
provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request;  or  (B)
deposit into the Special Account  (or,  if  the Bank shall  so  request,
refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  or
the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by  the  Bank  into  the
Special  Account shall be made until the Borrower  has provided such
evidence  or made  such deposit or refund, as the  case may be.

(b)  If  the Bank shall  have determined at  any time that  any
amount  outstanding  in  the  Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to
the  Borrower
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, 
shall,  promptly  upon notice from the  Bank, refund to the Bank  such
outstanding  amount.

(c) 

The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the
the  Special

Bank  all  or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit  in 
Account.

(d)  Refunds to  the Bank made pursuant to  paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and  (c) of  this Schedule  shall be  credited to the Loan Account
for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  is a true  copy of
the  original  in  the  archives  of  the  International  Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

FO 

ECRETAR

