LOAN  NUMBER 3844 RU

Loan  Agreement

(Portfolio Development  Project)

RUSSIAN  FEDERATION

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

1995

LOAN NUMBER 3844 RU

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated 

,  1995,  between RUSSIAN
FEDERATION  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank).

AHEREAS 

the  Borrower,  having  satisfied 

as  to  the
feasibility  and priority of  the Project described in  Schedule  2 to
this  Agreement,  has  requested  the  Bank  to  assist  in  the  financing  of
the  Project;  and

itself 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis,  inter alia, of  the
to  extend  the  Loan  to  the  Borrower  upon  the  terms  and

foregoing, 
conditions set  forth  in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties  hereto hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions;  Definitions

Section 1.01.  The  "General Conditions Applicable to  Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January  1, 1985, with the
modifications  set  forth  below  (the  General  Conditions)  constitute  an
integral  part of  this Agreement:

(a)  The  last  sentence  of  Section 3.02  is  deleted.

(b)  In  Section  6.02,  sub-paragraph 

(k) 

is  re-lettered  as

sub-paragraph  (1) and  a new sub-paragraph  (k) is  added to  read:

"(k) 

An extraordinary  situation  shall have  arisen under
which  any  further  withdrawals  under  the  Loan  would  be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article  III, Section 3 of
the  Bank's Articles of Agreement."

Section  1.02.  Unless 

the
several terms  defined in the General Conditions have the  respective
meanings  therein set  forth and the  following additional terms have
the  following meanings:

the  context  otherwise  requires, 

(a)  "Center"  means  the  Borrower's  Federal  Center  for  Project
Finance  and  Technical  Assistance,  established  on  April  4,  1994
pursuant  to Government Ordinance 277;

(b) 

"Sub-project"  means  a  particular 

study  or  project
selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to
paragraph 3 of  Schedule  5 to  this Agreement;

(c) 

"Special  Account"  means 

Section 2.02  (b) of this  Agreement;  and

the  account  referred  to  in

(d)  "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means 

the  project
preparation advance granted by the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of  letters dited December 28,  1994 and January 25,  1995
between the Borrower and the Bank.

ARTICLE  II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees to lend  to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,
various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate  value  equivalent  to
the  amount of  forty million dollars  ($40,000,000),  being the  sum of
withdrawals  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  with  each  withdrawal  valued
by  the Bank as  of  the  date  of  such withdrawal.

Section  2.02. 

(a)  The  amount  of  the  Loan  may  be  wit.idrawn  from
the Loan Account  in accordance with the  provisions of  Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall  so
agree,  to  be made)  in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and
services  required  for  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and  to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds  of  the Loan.

(b)  The  Forrower  may,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project,  open
and maintain in  dollars  a special  deposit  account  in  a commercial
bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
including
appropriate  protection  against  set  off,  seizure  or  attachment.
Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, 
the  Special  Account  shall  be
made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement.

(c)  Promptly  after  the Effective  Date,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw  from the Loan Account  and pay  to
itself 
the  amount  required  to  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the
Project  Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and  outstanding  as  of  such
date  and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The  unwithdrawn  balance
of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project  Preparation Advance  shall
thereupon be  cancelled.

-3-

Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall  be December  31,  1998 or
such  later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The  Bank  shall  promptly
notify the  Borrower of  such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to  the Bank a commitment
charge  at  the rate of  three-fourths  of  one percent  (3/4 of  1%)  per
annum  on  the  ,rincipal  amount  of  the  Loan  not  withdrawn  from  time  to
time.

Section  2.05.  (a) The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
principal amount  of  the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Interest  Period  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus  one-half of  one percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On each of  the
dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, 
the  Borrower
shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding
during  the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the  rate
applicable during  such Intr-est Period.

(b)  As  soon as practicable  after the end  of  each Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings  determined  in respect  of  such Semester.

(c)  For the purposes  of this  Section:

(i)  "Interest  Period"  means  a  six-month  period  ending
on  the  date  immediately  preceding  each  date
specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement,
beginning with  the Interest Period  in which this
Agreement is  signed.

(ii) 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed
as  a  percentage  per  annum,  of  the  outstanding
borrowings  of  the  Bank drawn down after  June 30,
1982,  excluding  such  borrowings  or  portions
thereof  as  the  Bank  has  allocated  to  fund: 
(A)
the  Bank's  investments;  and  (B) loans which may
be  made  by  the  Bank  after  July  1,  1989  bearing
interest  rates  determined  otherwise  than  as
provided  in paragraph  (a) of  this  Section.

(iii) 

"Semester"  means 
second  six months  of  a calendar year.

the 

first 

six  months  or  the

-4-

(d) 

months'  notice  to  the  Borrower,  paragraphs  (a), 
this  Section shall be  amended to  read as  follows:

On  such  date  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  no  less  than  six
of

(b)  and  (c) 

(iii) 

"(a)  The Borrower  shall pay interest  on the principal
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time,  at  a  rate  for  each  Quarter  equal  to  the  Cost  of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Quarter, plus one-half  of  one percent  (1/2  of  1%).  On each of
the  dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  *of this  Agreement, 
the
Borrower  shall  pay  interest  accrued on  the principal  amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated
at  the  rates  applicable during  such Interest  Period."

"(b)  As  soon  as  practicable  after 

the  end  of  each
the  Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost  of
Quarter, 
Qualified Borrowings determined  in respect  of  such Quarter."

"(c) 

(iii)  'Quarter'  means  a  three-month  period
commencing  on  January  1,  April  1, July  1  or  October  1  in  a
calendar year."

Section  2.06.  Interest  and  other  charges  shall  be  payable

semiannually  on January  15  and July  15  in  each year.

Section  2.07.  The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule  set  forth in
Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the  Project

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its  commitment to  the
to  this
objectives  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 
Agreement,  and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
financial,  technical  and  administrative  practices,  and  shall
the  funds,  facilities,  services  and
provide,  promptly  as  needed, 
other  resources  required for  the Project.

(b)  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (b)
in
of  this  Section, 
accordance with the  Implementation Program set  forth in Schedule  5

the  Borrower  shall  carry  out 

the  Project 

-5-

to  this  Agreement,  as  such  Schedule  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time
by  agreement between the Borrower  and the  Bank.

Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
procurement  of  the  goods,  works,  and  consultants'  services  required
for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01.  (a) The  Borrower  shall maintain or  cause  to be
maintained  records  and  accounts  adequa,te  to  riflect  in  accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices 
resources  and
expenditures 
the  Project  of  the  departments  or
agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible  for  carrying  out  the  Project  or
any part  thereof.

the  operat3iqs, 

respect  of 

in 

(b)  The Borrower shall:

(i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  including  those  for
the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal  year  audited,
in 
auditing
principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to the  Bank;

accordance  with 

appropriate 

(ii) 

furnish to  the  Bank as  soon as  available,  but in
any  case not later  than six months after  the end
of  each  such  year, 
the  report  of  such  audit  by
said  auditors,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail
as  the  Bank shall  have reasonably requested;  and

(iii) 

furnish to  the  Bank  such  other  information con-
cerning  said  records  and  accounts  and  the  audit
thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
reasonably request.

-6  -

(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure,  the Borrower  shall:

(i)  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained, 

in  accordance
with paragraph  (a) of  this  Section,  records  and
accounts  reflecting such expenditures;

(ii) 

retain,  until  at  least  one  year  after  the  Bank
has  received the audit  report for the fiscal year
in  which  the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account  was  made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
evidencing such expenditures;

(iii) 

enable  the  Bank's  representatives  to  examine  such
records;  and

(iv) 

ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included  in  the  annual  audit  referred  to  in
paragraph (b) of  this Section and  that the report
of  such audit  contains  a  separate  opinion  by  said
auditors  as  to  whether  the  statements  of
expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal  year,
together  with  the  procedures  and  internal
controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can  be
relied upon to  support  the related withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section  5.01.  The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after
the  date of  this Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for the  purposes  of
Section  12.04  of  the General Conditions.

Representative of the  Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01.  The Minister  of Finance  or  the Deputy Minister
of  Finance  of  the  Borrower  is  designated as  representative  of  the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.

-7-

Section  6.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the

purposes  of  Section 11.01  of  the  General Conditions:

For  the Borrower:

Ministry of  Finance
Ilyinka Street  9
103009 Moscow
Russian Federation

Telex:

112008

For the  Bank:

International Bank for

Reconstruction and  Development

1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

197688  (TRT),
248423  (RCA),
64145  (WUI) or
82987  (FTCC)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties  hereto, acting through their
duly  authorized  representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be
signed  in  their  respective  names  in  the  District  of  Columbia,  United
States  of America, as  of  the  day and year  first  above written.

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

By 

Voi"A

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Byk

B4 

Regional Vice President
Europe  and Central Asia

-9-

SCHEDULE  1

Withdrawal of  the  Proceeds of  the Loan

1. 
The  table  below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan, 
the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  for items  so  to be  financed  in  each Category:

Amount  of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

2,000,000 

Category 

(1) Goods  under 
Part A of 
the  Project 

% of
Expenditures
to  be Financed

100%  of  foreign
expenditures,
100%  of  local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)  and  70%
of  local ex-
penditures  for
other  items
procured
locally

(2) Technical 
assistance
and  training
under Part A
of  the  Project

(3) Works under 

Part A of 
the  Project 

21,500,000 

100%

1,500,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures and
70%  of  local
expenditures

- 10  -

Amount  of  the
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollar Equivalent) 

4,500,000 

% of
Expenditures
to  be Financed

100%  of  foreign
expenditures,
100%  of  local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)  and  70%
of  local  ex-
penditures  for
other items
procured  locally

3,500,000 

100%

3,000,000 

100%

3,500,000 

500,000 

100%  of  foreign
expenditures  and
70%  of  local
expenditures

Amount  due  pur-
suant  to  Section
2.02  (c) of  this
Agreement

Category 

(4) Goods  under 
Part  B of 
the Project 

(5) Technical 
Assistance
and training
under  Part B
of  the  Project

(6) Technical 
Assistance
and training
under Part C
of  the Project

(7) Works under 

Part C of  the 
Project 

(8) Refunding of 

Project 7repara- 
tion Advance 

TOTAL 

40,000,000

-

11  -

2. 

For  the purposes  of  this Schedule:

(a) 

the  term  "foreign  expenditures"  means  expenditures  in
the  currency  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for
goods or  services  supplied  from the territory  of  any  country  other
than that  of  the Borrower;  and

(b) 

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures  in the
currency of the Borrower or  for goods or  services  supplied from the
territory of  the Borrower;  provided, however,  that if  the  currency
of  the Borrower is  also that  of  another country from the  territory
of  which  goods  or  services  are  supplied,  expenditures  in  such
currency  for such goods  or  services  shall be  deemed to  be  "foreign
expenditures."

3.  Notwithstanding 
no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures  prior to  the date of  this Agreement.

the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, 

- 12 

-

SCHEDULE  2

Description of  the Project

The objectives of  the Project  are  to assist the Borrower  in:
(i)  developing  sound  proposals  for  future  projects  suitable  for  Bank
financing;  (ii) 
strengthening  capacity  to  coordinate  and  manage  the
flow  of  external  assistance;  (iii)  improving  the  implementation
capabilities  of  local  institutions  involved  in  the  execution  of
projects;  and  (iv)  developing  the  local  consulting  industry.

The Project consists  of  the  following parts,  subject  to  such
modifications  thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon
from time to  time to achieve  such objectives:

Part A: 

Fund for  Project  Preparation Activities

1. 
Establishment  and  operation of  a fund  for  the  financing  and
carrying  out  of  preparatory  activities  for  future  projects  for which
Bank financing has been or is  expected  to  be  requested.

2. 
described  in  Part A.1  above.

Pilot  projects  related  to  project  preparatory  activities  as

Part  B: 

Strengthening  of  Foreign  Assistance Management and
Coordination

Improving  the  institutional  and operational capability of the
Center  and  other  designated  government  organizations  to  manage  and
coordinate  externally  financed  activities  through  the  acquisition  of
equipment,  employment  of  consultants  and  the  provision  of  training,
including study  tours.

Part C: 

Business Opportunities Bureau

1. 
Establishment  of  a  business  opportunities  bureau,  carrying  out
of  business  outreach  programs,  including  seminars,  to  provide  local
firms  advice  and  training  on  opportunities  and  requirements  for
competing  for  externally financed  contracts  and  establishment  of  a
database  on  enterprises  with  a  potential  interest  in  participating
in  the bidding procedures under such contracts.

- 13  -

2. 
bureau.

Refurbishment  of  premises  of  the  business  opportunities

The Project  is expected  to  be completed by June  30,  1998.

- 14  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due 

On each January  15  and July  15

beginning  July  15,  2000
through July  15,  2011 

On January  15,  2012 

Payment of  Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

1,665,000

1,705,000

* 

The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents
the  respective  dates  of  withdrawal.  See
determined  as  of 
General Conditions,  Sections  3.04 and  4.03.

-

15 

-

Premiums  on  Prepayment

Pursuant  to  Section  3.04  (b) of  the  General Conditions,  the
premium  payable  on  the  principal  amount  of  any  maturity  of  the  Loan
to be prepaid shall be  the percentage  specified  for the  applicable
time of  prepayment below:

Time  of  Prepayment 

Premium

percentage 

The  interest  rate  (expressed  as
a 
annum)
applicable  to  the  Loan  on  the
day  of  prepayment  multiplied
by:

per 

Not more  than three years 
before maturity

More than three years but 

not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years  but 

not more than  11  years
before maturity

More than 11  years  but not 
more than 15  years
before maturity

More than 15  years  before 

maturity

0.18

0.35

0.65

0.88

1.00

-16 

-

SCHEDULE  4

Procurement  and  Consultants'  Services

Section I.  Procurement  of Goods  and Works

Part A: 

International  Competitive Bidding

Except  as  provided in Part C  hereof,  goods  shall be procured
1. 
in  accordance  with  procedures  consistent
under  contracts  awarded 
with  those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the  "Guidelines  for
Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits"  published  by  the  Bank
in May  1992  (the Guidelines),  and  in accordance with the  following
additional procedures.

(a) 

When contract  award  is  delayed beyond  the original bid
period,  such  period  may  be  extended  once,  subject  to  and  in
validity 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2.59  of  the  Guidelines,
by  the minimum  amount of  time  required to  complete  the evaluation,
obtain necessary  approvals  and  clearances  and  awazd  the  contract.
The  bid validity period may be  extended  a  second  time  only  if  the
bidding  documents  or  the  request  for  extension  shall  provide  for
appropriate  adjustment  of  the  bid price  to  reflect  changes  in the
cost  of  inputs  for  the  contract  over  the  period  of  extension.  Such
an increase  in the  bid price  shall not be taken  into account  in the
bid  evaluation. With respect  to  each contract  made  subject  to  the
Bank's  prior  review  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Part  D.1
(a)  of  this  Section,  the  Bank's  prior  approval  will  be  required  for:
(i) a first  extension of  the  bid validity period  if  the  period  of
any  subsequent  extension
extension  exceeds  sixty  (60)  days;  and  (ii) 
of  the bid validity period.

(b) 

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  this  Part
A,  the  Borrower  shall  use  the  relevant  standard  bidding  documents
issued  by  the  Bank,  with  such  modifications  thereto  as  the  Bank
shall  have agreed  to be  necessary for the  purposes  of  the  Project.
Where  no  relevant  standard  bidding  documents  have  been  issued  by  the
Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  use  bidding  documents  based  on  other
internationally  recognized standard  forms  agreed with the  Bank.

To  the  extent practicable, contracts  shall be  groupcd  in bid
2. 
packages estimated to cost the  equivalent of  $300,000 or more each.

- 17  -

Part B:. 

Preference  for Domestic Manufacturers

In  the  procurement  of  goods  in  accordance  with  the  procedures
described  in  Part  A  1 hereof,  goods  manufactured 
the  Russian
Federation  may  be  granted  a  margin  of  preference  in  accordance  with,
and  subject  to,  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the
Guidelines and paragraphs  1 through 4 of  Appendix 2 thereto.

in 

Part C: 

Other Procurement  Procedures

1. 
Items  or  groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the
equivalent of  $300,000 or  less  per  contract and up  to  an aggregate
amount not to  exceed the equivalent  of  $3,500,000, may be  procured
under  contracts  awarded  on 
the  basis  of  comparison  of  price
quotations  obtained  from  at  least  three  suppliers  from  at  least
three  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to  the Bank.

2. 
Items  or  groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of
$50,000  or  less  per  contract  and  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to
exceed  the  equivalent  of  $500,000 may be  procured under  contracts
awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of  price  quotations  obtained  from
at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to  the Bank.

Goods which the Bank agrees:  (a) are of a proprietary nature;
3. 
(b) 
the  timely  supply  thereof  is  critical  for  efficient  project
execution;  or  (c)  need  to  be  compatible  with  other  installed
equipment,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  the  equivalent  of
$500,000,  may  be  purchased  from  suppliers  on  the  basis  of  negotiated
contracts pursuant  to procedures  acceptable to  the Bank.

(a)  Subject  to  the  provision  of  paragraph  4(b)  below,  works
4. 
may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

(b)  Works  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of
$50,000  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate amount  not  to  exceed  the
equivalent of  $800,000, may be procured under contracts  awarded on
the basis  of  comparison of  price  quotations obtained from at  least
three  contractors,  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to  the  Bank.

- 18  -

Part  D: 

Review by the Bank  of  Procurement Decisions

1. 
contracts:

Review of  invitations to bid and of  proposed awards and final

(a)  With  respect:  (i) 

to  each  contract  awarded  in  accordance
with Parts  A and  C.3;  and  (ii)  the  first  two  contracts  awarded  in
accordance  with  Parts  C.1,  C.2.  and  C.4,  the  procedures  set  forth  in
paragraphs  2  and  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply.
Where payments  for such contract  are  to  be made out  of  the Special
Account,  such procedures  shall  be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two
conformed  copies  of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
prior to the making of the  first payment out  of  the  Special Account
in respect  of  such contract.

(b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by  the
preceding  paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  3  and  4
of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply.  Where  payments  for  such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  said  procedures
shall  be  modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  the
contract  together  with  the  other  information  required  to  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  3  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence  to  be  furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of  Schedule 6 to this  Agreement.

(c)  The provisions  of  the preceding subparagraph  (b) shall
not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  withdrawals  from  the  Loan
Account  are to  be made on  the  basis of  statements  of expenditure.

2. 
paragraph 4 of  Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines.

The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes  of

Section II.  Employment of  Consultants

In order  to  assist  the Borrower in carrying  out  the  Project,
1. 
the  Borrower  shall,  or  shall  cause  its  department  or  agency
responsible  for  the  execution  of  a  Sub-project  to,  employ
consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and
conditions  of  employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such
consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles  and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines
for  the  Use  of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World
Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the  Bank  in  August  1981  (the
Consultants' Guidelines).  For complex, time-based  assignments,  the

-

19 

-

Borrower  shall  employ  such  consultants  under  contracts  using  the
standard  form  of  contract  for  consultants'  services  issued  by  the
Bank,  with  such  modifications  as  shall  have  been  agreed  by  the  Bank.
Where  no  relevant  standard  contract  documents  have  been  issued  by
the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall use  other  standard  forms  agreed with
the  Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  of  this  Section,
the  provisions  of  the  Consultants'  Guidelines  requiring  prior  Bank
review  or  approval  of  budgets,  short  lists, 
selection  procedures,
letters of  invitation, proposals,  evaluation reports  and  contracts
shall  not  apply  to  contracts  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000
equivalent 
for
individuals.  However,  this  exception  to  prior  Bank  review  shall  not
apply to the  terms of reference  for such contracts with firms  or to
the  employment  of  individuals,  to  single  source  selection  of  firms,
to  assignments  of  a  critical  nature  as  reasonably  determined  by  the
Bank  and  to  amendments  of  contracts  raising  the  contract value  to
$50,000  equivalent  or  above  for  individuals  and  $100,000  or  above
for consulting  firms.

and  $50,000  equivalent  each 

firms 

each 

for 

- 20  -

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

The Center  shall be  responsible for the  overall coordination
1. 
of  all  Project  activities.  It  shall  cause  all  activities  under  the
Project  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  Sub-projects)  to  be  carried
out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement.  For  this
purpose,  the  Borrower  shall  establish  and  monitor  arrangements,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  ensuring  effective  coordination  among
the  departments  and  agencies  of  the  Borrower  involved  in  the
implementation of the  Project.

The  purpose  and  scope  of  each  Sub-project,  the  method  of
2. 
implementation  thereof  and  the  specific  allocation  thereto  of
proceeds  of  the Loan  shall be  determined by  agreement  between  the
Borrower  and  the Bank.

Criteria  for  Sub-project  Eligibility

3. 

A Sub-project  shall be  one of  the  following:

(a)  under  Part  A  of  the  Project,  preparatory  activities,
services,  goods  and  rehabilitation  works
including  consultants' 
for  projects  for  which
needed 
financing by  the  Bank, under loans  made  or  to  be made by  the  Bank
other than the  Loan, has been or  is  expected  to be  requested;

to  carry  out  such  activities, 

(b)  under  Part  B  of  the  Project:  (i)  a  program  to  strengthen
the  capacity  and  capability  of  institutions  in  the  Russian
Federation  for  project  planning  and 
implementation  and  economic
development,  including,  inter  alia,  training  and  overseas  study
tours  and  the  acquisition  of  equipment;  and  (ii)  a  program  for
overall  development  of  the  administration  and  management  of
technical  and financial assistance;  and

(c)  under  Part  C of  the  Project:  (i) the  refurbishment of

Center  premises  which  house  the  business  opportunities  bureau; 
development of  a data base on enterprises with a potential interest
business  outreach,
i-i bidding  in  externally  financed  projects;  (iii) 
including  information  and  marketing  programs;  or  (iv)  training
programs  on procurement  procedures  for interested  local  firms.

(ii)

- 21  -

A  Sub-project  shall  have  no  equally  suitable  financing

4. 
available  from other external financing  agencies.

Sub-project proosals

Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree, 

5. 
submit,  for  each  Sub-project, 
approval:

the  Borrower  shall
the  following  to  the  Bank  for  its

(a)  a description of  the studies  and work to be carried out
in  connection  with 
the  proposed  Sub-project, 
time
schedule  for,  the  purposes  and  objectives  of,  and  the  benefits
expected  from, such Sub-project;

including  a 

(b)  the  proposed  selection  procedures,  qualifications,  terms
of  reference  and  duration  of  service  for  any  consultants  to  be
engaged for the  purposes of  the proposed  Sub-project;

(c)  a  description  of  the  role  of  the  department  or  agency  or
personnel  of  the  Borrower  to  be  responsible  for  the  execution  of  the
proposed  Sub-project and  counterpart staff,  if  any,  to  be  supplied
by  the Borrower;

(d)  a  general  description  of  the  arrangements  to  be  made  by
the  executing  agencies  for  the  provision  of  office  space,
secretariat  facilities,  transportation 
and  other  operational
facilities required  for  the  Sub-project  to proceed efficiently;

(e)  estimated  foreign and  local  costs  of  the proposed  Sub-
project  broken  down  by  major 
to  be
financed  by  the  Borrower  and  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,
respectively, and  an estimated disbursement schedule;  and

items  and  showing  amounts 

(f)  measures  to  be  taken  to  comply  with  paragraphs  6  (b)  and

(c) below.

6. 

Consultants

(a)  Consultants  shall  be  employed  as  provided  in  Section  1I

of  Schedule  4 to  this  Agreement.

(b)  The  Borrower  shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all
reasonable  measures  to  facilitate  the  work  of  consultants  in 
the
performance  of  their  services  for  the  Project  and  make  available  to
them all  information relevant  to  the Sub-project concerned.

- 22  -

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  not  permit  the  amendment  or  waiver  of
any  of  the  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  of  consultants
employed  for  any  Sub-project,  or  the  grant  of  any  material  extension
of  time  or  any approval of  sub-contracts  or modifications  thereof,
or  the  agreement  to  substitute  personnel  of  such  consultants,
with,out  prior  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and 
the  Bank.  The
Borrower  shall promptly  inform  the Bank if  it  proposes  to  suspend
payments  under or  terminate  any contract with such consultants.

(d)  The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  consultants  employed  for
the  Project  promptly  to  furnish  to  the  Bank  copies  of  the  documents
prepared  by 
including  reports  and  draft
thereof,  in  such number as  the Bank shall  reasonably request.

them  for  the  Project, 

(e)  The 

and
procedures, satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  supervising  and  directing
the work of  any consultants employed for Sub-projects  and reviewing
the  reports  and recommendations  of  such consultants.

establish  arrangements 

Borrower  shall 

The  Borrower  shall prepare,  under  guidelines  satisfactory to
7. 
the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  without  limitation  in  the
provisions  of  Section  9.07 
of  the  General  Conditions,
semi-annual  progress  reports  on  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  to
be provided  to the Bank by March 31  and  September  30  in each year,
for the  periods ending December  31  and June  30,  respectively.

(iii) 

(a) 

- 23 

-

SCHEDULE  6

Special Account

1. 

For  the purposes  of  this  Schedule:

(a)  the 

(1)
through  (7) set  forth in  the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule  1 to
this Agreement;

term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories 

(b)  the  term "eligible  expenditures" means  expenditures  in
respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  required  for
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in  accordance
with the provisions of  Schedule  1 to  this Agreement;  and

(c)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent  to  $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited  into  the  Special Account pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of
this  Schedule,  provided,  however,  that  unless  the  Bank  shall
otherwise  agree, 
the  Authorized  Allocation  shall  be  limited  to  an
amount  equivalent  to  $1,000,000  until  the  aggregate  amount  of
withdrawals  from  the Loan Account shall  be  equal  to  or  exceed  the
equivalent of  $3,000,000.

2. 
Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively
for eligible  expenditures  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this
Schedule.

3. 
After  the Bank has  received evidence  satisfactory to  it  that
the  Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the
Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to  replenish  the
Special Account  shall  be made as  follows:

(a)  For  withdrawals  of  the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  request  or  requests  for  a
deposit  into  the  Special Account  of  an amount  or  amounts  which do
not  exceed  the  aggregate  amount  of  the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the
basis  of such request or requests, the Bank  shall, on behalf of  the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have  requested.

- 24  -

(b) 

(i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, 

the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  requests  for
deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at  such
intervals  as  the Bank shall specify.

in 

respect  of  which  replenishment 

(ii)  Prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  each  such  request,  the
Borrower  shall  furnish to the  Bank the  documents
and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to  para-
graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or
payments 
requested.  On  the  basis  of  each  such  request,  the
Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower, withdraw
from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the
Special  Account  such  amount  as  the  Borrower  shall
have  requested  and  as  shall  have  been  shown  by
said  documents  and  other  evidence  to  have  been
paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits  shall  be
withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under
the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and 
the
respective  equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been
justified by  said  documents and  other evidence.

in 

is

For  each  payment  made  by 

the  Borrower  shall,  at  such 

4. 
Account, 
reasonably  request,  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  docutaents  and  other.
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures.

the  Borrower  out  of  the  Special
time  as  the  Bank  shall

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  3  of  this
5. 
Schedule,  the  Bank  shall not  be  required  to  make  further  deposits
into  the  Special Account:

(a) 

if,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  shall  have  determined  that  all
further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the
Loan Account  in accordance with the provisions  of  Article V of the
General  Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  this
Agreement;  or

(b)  once  the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated
to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount  of  any  outstanding
special  commitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02
of  the  General Conditions with respect to  the  Project,  shall equal
the equivalent  of  twice the  amount of  the Authorized  Allocation.

- 25 

-

from  the  Loan  Account  of 

Thereafter,  withdrawal 
the  remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories
shall  follow such procedures  as  the Bank shall specify by notice to
the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and
to  the extent  that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts  remaining on deposit  in the  Special Account  as  of  the  date
of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.

6. 
(a)  If  the Bank shall have  determined at  any  time  that  any
payment out of  the Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure
or  in  an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph 2  of  this
Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the  evidence  furnished  to  the
Bank, the Borrower  shall,  promptly upon  notice  from the Bank:  (A)
provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank  may  request;  or  (B)
the  Bank  shall  so  request,
deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if 
refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  or
the portion thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified. Unless  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by  the  Bank  into  the
Special Account shall be made until  the  Borrower  has provided such
evidence  or made  such deposit or  refund, as  the case may be.

(b)  If  the  Bank shall have determined  at  any  time  that  any
amount  outstanding  in  the  Special Account will not  be  required  to
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  the  Borrower
shall, promptly  upon notice  from the Bank, refund to  the Bank such
outstanding amount.

(c)  The  Borrower  may,  upon  notice  to  the  Bank,  refund  to  the
Bank  all  or  any  portion  of  the  funds  on  deposit  in  the  Special
Account.

(d)  Refunds  to  the Bank made pursuant  to paragraphs  6 (a),
(b) and  (c) of  this  Schedule  shall be credited  to  the Loan Account
for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for  cancellation  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  General
Conditions.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

CERTIFICATE

I hereby certify that  the  foregoing  is a true copy of
the original  in the  archives of the  International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development.

FOR SECRETARY

