CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4054 IND

(Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project)

Loan Agreement

between

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated August 12,1996

LOAN AGREEMEENT

LOAN NUMBER 4054 IND

AGREEMENT, dated August 12,1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 

of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 

following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"Annual Work Program" means a work program and budget agreed between DGH, 

through BINKOT, and the Implementing Agencies (all as hereinafter defined), pursuant 
to the provisions of Part A. 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(b)

"BINKOT" means the Directorate of Urban Road Development within the 

Directorate General of Highways of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

(c)

"BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 

and includes any successor or successors thereto;

(d)

"DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga) of the 

Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

(e)

"DGLT" means the Directorate General of Land Transport in the Borrower's 

Ministry of Communications;

(f)

"DLLAJ" means Dinas Lalu Lintas Angkutan Jalan Tingkat II, the road 

traffic and transport unit established and operating within each Participating Local 
Government pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 14/1992 of the Borrower;

(g)

"Executing Agency" means the Borrower's Directorate General of Highways;

(h)

"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower or the fiscal year of 
the Participating Local Governments, both commencing April I and ending March 31;ˇ (i) 
"Implementing Agencies" means the central, provincial and local agencies, departments 
and units, including the Participating Local Governments, responsible for Project 
implementation and coordination referred to under Part B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and "Implementing Agency" means any of the Implementing Agencies;

(j)

"Juklak" means the Petunjuk Pelaksanaan, the implementation guidelines 

for a Surat Keputusan, issued by the head of a Kabupaten or the mayor of a Kotamadya, 
respectively, of a Participating Local Government;

(k)

"Kabupaten" means a level II autonomous local government (district) 

within a province of the Borrower;

(1)

"Kotamadya" means a level 11 autonomous local government (municipality) 

within a province of the Borrower;

(m)

"Participating Local Government" means any of the level II autonomous 

local governments in the Borrower's Provinces of Central and West Java listed in 
Section I of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

(n)

"Performance Indicators" means the financial, physical and technical 

parameters included in the Annual Work Programs to measure Project inputs, outputs and 
outcomes pursuant to the provisions of Part C. 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(o)

"PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be established by the Borrower 

within BINKOT in accordance with the provisions of Part B. 1. 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;

(p)

"Project Affected Persons" or "PAPs" means persons who, on account of the 
execution of Parts A. I and B. I of the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard 
of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land 
(including) premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable 
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently, adversely affected; or (iii) 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and 
"Project Affected Person" or "PAP" means individually all those who qualify as Project 
Affected Persons; 

(q)

"Project Implementation Memorandum" or "PIM" means the memorandum of 

understanding agreed between the Executing Agency, the Participating Local Governments 
and DGLT, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as such 
PIM may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;

(r)

"Project Towns" means any of the towns within the Participating Local 
Governments listed in Section II of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and 
"Project Town" means any of the Project Towns;

(s)

"Resettlement Action Plan" or "RAP" means a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan to be prepared by a Participating Local Government pursuant 
to the Resettlement Guidelines (as hereinafter defined);

(t)

"Resettlement Guidelines" means the framework described in the Surat 

Keputusan and the related Juklak of each Participating Local Government, establishing 
procedural and institutional aspects pertaining to land acquisition and the 
resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation of PAPs under the Project, as such 
Resettlement Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank;

(u)

"Respective Parts of the Project" means the Parts of the Project carried 

out by the Implementing Agencies as set forth in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;

(v)

"Rupiah" means the currency of the Borrower;

(w)
this Agreement;

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(x)

"Sub-project" means a specific infrastructure investment project 

described under Part A. 1 or B. I of the Project; and

(y)

"Surat Keputusan" means the Surat Keputusan Bupati or the Surat Keputusan 

Walikotamadya, the decree issued by the head of a Kabupaten or the mayor of a 
Kotamadya, respectively, of a Participating Local Government, setting forth the 
Resettlement Guidelines applicable to activities carried out by the respective 
Participating Local Government under the Project.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
six million nine hundred thousand dollars ($86,900,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001, or such later date 

as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three(cid:30)fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on February 

15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall carry out: (i) Parts A. 1, A. 2, C. 3, D and E. 2 of the Project through BINKOT; 
(ii) Parts A. 3, B. 1, B. 2, B. 3 and B. 5 of the Project through the Participating 
Local Governments; (iii) Part B. 4 of the Project through DGH; (iv) Part C. I and C. 2 
of the Project through DGLT; and (v) Part E. I of the Project through BAPPENAS, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental and resettlement practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.

(b)

Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause a project implementation memorandum 

to be entered into among the Executing Agency, the Participating Local Governments and 
DGLT, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including those set forth in 
Part A. 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(b)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Implementation 

Memorandum in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Project and, except as the Bank all otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Implementation 
Memorandum or any provision thereof.

Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 

months after the end of each such year, the report of 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 

requested; and

and 
to time reasonably 

request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Executing Agency or any of the Participating Local Governments or DGLT will 
be able to perform any of their respective obligations under the Project 
Implementation Memorandum; and

(b)

the Resettlement Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, 

abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or the ability of 
the Participating Local Governments to perform any of their obligations under their 
respective Annual Work Programs.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

that the Project Implementation Memorandum has been duly approved by all 

relevant authorities and executed by the Executing Agency, the Participating Local 
Governments and DGLT; and

(b)

that a Juklak, acceptable to the Bank, has been issued by each 

Participating Local Government for purposes of elaborating the Surat Keputusan Bupati 
or the Surat Keputusan Walikotamadya which sets forth the Resettlement Guidelines.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Project Implementation Memorandum has been duly authorized or 

ratified by the Executing Agency, the Participating Local Governments and DGLT, and is 
legally binding upon the Executing Agency, the Participating Local Governments and 
DGLT, in accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the Resettlement Guidelines have been duly approved by the Borrower 

and the Participating Local Governments and all necessary actions have been taken to 
enable the Resettlement Guidelines to be implemented in accordance with their terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified f6r the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance  
c/o Directorate General of Budget  
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4  
P. 0. Box 1139  
Jakarta 10710  
Indonesia

Cable address:

FINMINSTRY
JAKARTA

For the Bank:

Telex:

45799 DJMLN(cid:30)IA
44319 DEPKEU(cid:30)IA

International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, NW  
Washington, DC 20433  
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, DC

248423 (MCI), or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Russell Cheetham

Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCIHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

(1)

Civil works:

Amount of the Loan 
     Allocated
   (Expressed in 

Dollars)

 

   % of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed

(a)

(b)

contracted for Sub-
projects implemented
by the Borrower’s
central level agencies

contracted for Sub-
projects implemented
by the Participating
Local Governments

50,800,000

50%

11,800,000

60%

(2)

Goods for Sub-projects

 3,500,000

implemented by the

local

Borrower’s central level
agencies (except vehicles)

100% of foreign expen-

ditures, 100% of 

expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 65% of other
items procured locally

(3)

Consultants’ services:

(a)

(b)

contracted by the
Borrower’s central
level agencies

contracted by the
Participating
Local Governments

(4) Training

(5) Unallocated 

TOTAL 

11,300,000

80%

 2,100,000

100%

 1,800,000 

80%

 5,600,000

86,900,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.
made in respect of:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

(b)

payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;

payments for expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) until the Borrower 

has furnished evidence, acceptable to the Bank, that the Project Management Unit has 
been established in accordance with the provisions of Part B. 1. 3 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;

(c)

payments under Categories (1) and (2) with respect to expenditures 

incurred under any Sub-project unless the Sub-project has been selected in accordance 
with the criteria described under Part A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Bank 
has approved such Sub-project, and, where applicable, the implementation of the RAP 
has been found acceptable to the Bank; and

(d)

payments under Categories (1) (b), and (3) (b) with respect to 

expenditures incurred by a Participating Local Government, unless an Annual. Work 
Program for Fiscal Year 1997/1998 has been adopted by such Participating Local 
Government in accordance with the provisions of Part A.2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.

4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent; (b) civil works costing less than $3,000,000 
equivalent; (c) training; and (d) the employment of: (i) consulting firms costing less 
than $ 100,000 equivalent, and (ii) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) reduce traffic 

bottlenecks on the national road network in selected urban areas in the Borrower’s 
North Java corridor; (b) address environmental and social issues related to the usage 
of said network; (c) develop urban transport policies; (d) carry out the process of 
decentralization of responsibility for planning, design, construction, maintenance, 
management and regulation of urban transport from the Borrower’s central level 
agencies to local governments; and (e) strengthen the technical and institutional 
capabilities of the Borrower’s central level agencies and local governments.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Road Construction

1.

Carrying out of a program of road infrastructure works, including:

(a)

completion or new construction of ring roads and by(cid:30)passes on new 

alignments;

(c)
roads; and

(b)

widening and improvement of existing roads;

construction of culverts, bridges, road junctions, junction approach 

(d)

design and implementation of mitigation measures to address the 

environmental and the social impacts identified during the design, construction and 
supervision of works.

2.
the Participating Local Governments.

Provision of traffic signal and related equipment for the respective DLLAJ of 

3.
above.

Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under Part A. I 

Part B:

Urban Management and Quality of Life Improvements

1.
Carrying out of a program of infrastructure works by Participating Local 
Governments as set out in traffic and environmental management plans for Project Towns 
covering existing roads and adjacent areas to be implemented upon completion of by(cid:30)
passes.

2.
and transport investment plans.

Carrying out of reviews of the impact of construction of by(cid:30)passes on land use 

3.
by(cid:30)passes constructed under Part A. 1 above.

Development of measures required for the protection of the right(cid:30)of(cid:30)way of the 

Strengthening of the operational capabilities of selected Participating Local 

4.
Governments in routine road maintenance, including provision of equipment and 
training.

5.
above.

Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under Part B. I 

Part C:

Institutional and Human Resource Development

1.
each Participating Local Government, including the provision of advisory services.

Strengthening of the operational and implementation capabilities of the DLLAJ of 

2.
to their respective DLLAJ through the provision of technical training.

Improvement of the skills of staff of Participating Local Governments assigned 

3.
including the provision of advisory services.

Strengthening of the environmental impact assessment capabilities of BINKOT, 

Part D:

Urban Road Program Development

Establishment and updating of a management system, at the national level, for an 

urban road investment program, including the provision of advisory services.

Part E:

Policy Formulation and Articulation

1.
advisory services.

Preparation of an urban transport policy statement, including the provision of 

Preparation of draft policies, procedures and guidelines on the planning, design 

2. 
and management of urban roads applicable at the national and local levels, including 
the provision of advisory services.

The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.

*

*

*

*

*

ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

Participating Local Governments and Project Towns

Section I.

Participating Local Governments

1.

Kabupaten Cirebon (West Java)

Section II.

Project Towns

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

Kotarnadya Cirebon (West Java)

Kabupaten Demak (Central Java)

Kabupaten Kendal (Central Java)

Kabupaten Kudus (Central Java)

Kotarnadya Pekalongan (Central Java)

Kabupaten Pernalang (Central Java)

Kotamadya Semarang (Central Java)

Cirebon (Kotamadya Cirebon)

Demak (Kabupaten Demak)

Kaliwungu (Kabupaten Kendal)

Kudus (Kabupaten Kudus)

Pekalongan (Kotamadya Pekalongan) 

Pernalang (Kabupaten Pemalang)

Semarang (Kotamadya Semarang)

Sumber (Kabupaten Cirebon)

Weleri (Kabupaten Kendal)

SCHEDULE 3

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions

A.

General Definitions

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.

(b)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

(c)
Agreement.

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

(d)

"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.

B.

Interest

1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

2.
(a) From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 

Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)  Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings.

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six(cid:30)month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 

Period, below 
other reference rates, for 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Period;

six-month deposits, in respect of the 

portions thereof allocated by the 

portions thereof made by 

Interest 

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

London interbank offered rate for six(cid:30)month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:

(i)

one-half of one percent (1 /2 of I%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 

Date for such 
interbank offered rates, or 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus

Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 

other reference rates, for 

outstanding 

loans 

Disbursed 

Amount;

(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 

4. 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment

1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi(cid:30)annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (I 8th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Part C, if any installment 

2. 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after February 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCIHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants' Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 

1.
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.

2.
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B.

The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 

(a)

Prequalification

Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more shall 

be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
guidelines.

(b)

Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

(c)

Notification and Advertising

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

(a)

Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 

to an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,800,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

(b)

Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $550,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works and goods shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines 

shall apply with respect to:

(a)

the first contract for works and the first contract for goods to be 

entered into by any of the Implementing Agencies; and

(b)

thereafter, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 

$3,000,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 

1.
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time(cid:30)based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2. 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:

(a)

contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 

than $100,000 equivalent each; and

(b)

contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 

less than $50,000 equivalent each.

However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:

(i)

the terms of reference for such contracts;

(ii)

single-source selection of consulting firms;

Bank;

(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 

raising the 

(iv)

amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or

consultants raising 
above.

(v)

amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 

the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Part A:

Implementation Arrangements

1.

Project Implementation Memorandum (PIM)

Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Project Implementation Memorandum 

shall include the following undertakings:

DGH shall be designated as the Executing Agency;

BINKOT shall be designated as the lead Implementing Agency;

(a)

(b)

(c)

Memorandum shall be DGH, BINKOT, the Participating Local Governments, and DGLT;

the Implementing Agencies for purposes of the Project Implementation 

(d)

the Implementing Agencies shall declare their commitment to the 

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end 
shall carry out their Respective Parts of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and resettlement practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the implementation of the Project;

(e)

the Implementing Agencies shall carry out their Respective Parts of the 

Project in accordance with technical criteria, cost estimates and financing 
arrangements, implementation timetables, operations and maintenance programs, 
institutional capacity development programs and the Performance Indicators acceptable 
to the Bank;

(f)

the lead Implementing Agency shall, through the PMU, ensure that 

procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required by the Implementing 
Agencies for their Respective Parts of the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

(g)

the Implementing Agencies shall use the goods and services financed. out 
of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for the purposes of their Respective Parts of 
the Project;

(h)

the Implementing Agencies shall monitor the implementation of all 

proposed activities, and to inspect jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank so requests, from time to time, the goods, works and services procured under 
their Respective Parts of the Project, including all records and documents relating 
thereto;

(i)

the Implementing Agencies, through the Executing Agency, shall promptly 
inform the Borrower of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with 
the progress in carrying out their Respective Parts of the Project and ensure that 
appropriate corrective measures are taken by the relevant Implementing Agency; and

the Executing Agency shall cause each Implementing Agency to:

Bank, exchange 

(i)

from time to time, at the request of either the Borrower or the 
views regarding progress achieved in carrying out 

their Respective Parts of 

the Project; and

(ii)

furnish to the Bank all such information and documents related 
reasonably be requested. Each Implementing Agency 

thereto as may 
shall further agree to 
may be required by the Borrower to 
monitoring, recording and reporting obligations to 

obtain such information and documents as 

fulfill its supervision, 

the Bank.

2.

Annual Work Programs

The Borrower shall ensure that:

(a)

an Annual Work Program for 1996/1997 is adopted by BINKOT not later than 
November 1, 1996, in accordance with model terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank, including the scope, costs, time(cid:30)based implementation schedules, 
Performance Indicators, financing plan and detailed budget arrangements for 
Sub-projects and other Project activities; and

(b)

commencing on April 15, 1997, and thereafter, by April 15 in each year 

until the completion of the Project, Annual Work Programs are adopted by BINKOT, each 
of the Participating Local Government and DGLT, in accordance with model terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including the scope, costs, 
time(cid:31)based implementation schedules, Performance Indicators, financing plan and 
detailed budget arrangements for Sub-projects and other Project activities.

3.

Sub-projects

Implementing Agencies to:

In carrying out Parts A. I and B. I of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the 

(a)

select Sub-projects to be financed under the Project using technical, 

environmental and economic criteria acceptable to the Bank. Such criteria shall 
include, without limitation:

(i)

each Sub-project under Part A. I of the Project shall be prepared 

and each Sub-project under Part B. I of the Project shall be 

by BINKOT, 
prepared by the 
accordance with general 
Bank and attached to the Annual Work 

respective Participating Local Government, all in 
technical guidelines approved by the 
Programs;

minimum 
shall be required;

(ii)

for each Sub-project under Part A. I of the Project, a projected 

economic rate of return of twelve (12 %) percent 

(iii) for each Sub-project under Parts A. 1 and B. I of the Project 

involving the 
prepared in accordance 
consultation with said PAPs, and such 
Bank;

involuntary resettlement of any PAPs, a RAP has been 
with the Resettlement Guidelines and in 

RAP has been approved by the 

operation and 

maintenance arrangements have been defined;

(iv)

for each Sub-project under Parts A. I and B. I of the Project, 

for the 
Participating Local 
implemented; and

(v)

for each Sub-project under Part A. I of the Project, initial steps 

establishment of the DLLAJ have been taken by each 

Government where the Sub-project will be 

(vi)

for each Sub-project under Parts A. I and B. I of the Project, the 
environmental impact assessment requirements (ANDAL) 
pursuant to terms and conditions which 

have been completed 
shall have been approved by the Bank;

(b)

furnish to the Bank for its approval, by not later than November 1, 1996, 

and thereafter, by October 15 of each year until completion of the Project, a list of 
Sub-projects under Parts A. I and B. I of the Project, proposed to be financed under 
the Project during the next Fiscal Year, together with all supporting documentation, 

all in accordance with the criteria set forth in sub-paragraph (a) above; and

(c)

promptly after receiving the Bank’s approval thereof carry out their 
respective Sub-projects approved by the Bank in accordance with standard operating 
procedures and technical guidelines issued by the PMU, including the carrying out of 
any RAP approved by the Bank and required under paragraph 3 (a) (iii) above, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank.

Part B: 

Implementing Agencies

Responsibility for the implementation of the Project shall be vested in the 

Implementing Agencies as follows:

I.

Central Executing and Implementing Agencies

1.
transportation (IWG) shall be responsible for:

BAPPENAS, through its inter(cid:30)ministerial working group for urban

(a)

formulating the urban transport policy referred to under Part E. I of the 

Project;

(b)

(c)

overseeing the overall progress of Project implementation; and

at the central and local levels.

ensuring coordination of Project activities among Implementing Agencies 

2.
implementation of Part B. 4 of the Project.

DGH shall be the Executing Agency and shall be responsible for the 

3.
the implementation of Parts A. 1, A. 2, C. 3, D and E. 2 of the Project.

BINKOT shall be the lead Implementing Agency and shall be responsible for 

(a)

(b)

In discharging its implementation responsibilities, BINKOT shall 

establish and, thereafter, maintain throughout Project implementation, a Project 
Management Unit with competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers and headed by a 
qualified and experienced Project Manager.

(c)

The Project Management Unit shall be responsible, among others, for:

(i)

the day-to-day management of the Project;

(ii)

ensuring the technical quality of Project activities;

(iii) reviewing proposed Sub-projects and furnishing them to the Bank 

the 

(iv)

issuing standard operating procedures and related guidelines for 

implementation of Sub-projects by Implementing Agencies;

(v)

planning and monitoring of consultants' services financed under 

(vi)

monitoring the implementation of Sub-projects approved by the 

(vii) establishing, maintaining and monitoring accounting and auditing 

procedures 
consolidation of Project 

and documentation, including the preparation and 
accounts;

measures; and

(viii) supervising the implementation of environmental mitigation 

overall 
to the Bank for its review 

and approval.

(ix)

preparing the monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports on 

Project implementation, and furnishing said reports 

4.

DGLT shall be responsible for the implementation of Part C. 1 and C. 2 of the 

for approval;

the Project;

Bank;

Project.

II.

Participating Local Governments

Each Participating Local Government shall be responsible for the coordination 

1.
and monitoring of the implementation of Sub-projects carried out by such Participating 
Local Government.

2. 
The Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA 11) in each Participating Local 
Government shall be responsible for the overall supervision of Sub-projects under Part 
B of the Project, including programming and planning of civil works under such 
Sub-projects and, for this purpose, shall assign, and thereafter maintain throughout 
Project implementation, qualified and experienced technical officers who shall carry 
out the day-to-day coordination activities.

Part C:

Implementation Actions

1.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

through the Inspectorate General of the Ministry of Public Works and the 
relevant Kabupaten or Kotamadya inspectorates, carry out, not later than October 3 1, 
1997, and annually thereafter, until the completion of the Project, annual technical 
audits acceptable to the Bank, for Project quality assurance, including achievement of 
Project objectives pursuant to the Performance Indicators, performance of civil works 
and consultants’ contracts, provision of compensation under the RAPs, and procurement 
of goods, works and services financed under Project; and

(b)

promptly after completion of the said audits, furnish to the Bank the 

recommendations submitted as part of said audits.

2.
shall, and shall cause the Participating Local Governments to:

Without limitation on Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower and the 

Participating Local Governments to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

not later than July 31 of each year, commencing July 31, 1997, and until 
the completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank a report in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, including:

implementation 

pursuant to the Performance Indicators; and

(i)

an evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower in Project 

(ii)

draft Annual Work Programs proposed for the following year;

(c)

not later than October 31 of each year, commencing October 31, 1997, and 
until the completion of the Project, and on the basis of the above reports, carry out 
in consultation with the Bank annual reviews of Project implementation to, among 
others:

carrying out 

the Project, including the carrying out of the RAPs;

(i)

evaluate the progress achieved by the Implementing Agencies in 

Annual Work 
Work Programs 

(ii)

evaluate the performance of the Implementing Agencies under the 
Programs during the previous year and review draft Annual 
proposed for the following year;

Local 
maintenance of 
Project, during the previous Fiscal Year and 
for the following Fiscal Year;

(iii) assess the level of expenditures incurred by the Participating 

Governments to finance the costs of operation and 

infrastructure financed under the 

the allocations proposed 

(iv)

exchange information and propose solutions to any current Project 

implementation issue; and

financed by foreign 

assistance; and

(v)

discuss and exchange views on all other related activities 

(d)

promptly after completing the annual reviews, take all measures required 

to ensure efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said annual 
reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.

3.
In carrying out Part B. 4 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide the 
required vehicles for the Project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 

set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $14,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3. 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures.

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.
(a)
Special Account:

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 

to paragraph 

2 of this Schedule; or

(i)

was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 

Borrower shall, 

(ii)

was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:

(A)

(B)

provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or

request, 
amount of such payment or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
deposit by the Bank into the Special 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 

refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 

the portion thereof not so eligible or 

otherwise agree, no further 

Account shall be 

made 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

