CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4132 IND

Loan Agreement

(Solar Home Systems Project)

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 11, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4132 IND

AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

(B)

the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No. 94-2 of the 
Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and, by an 
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixteen million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,800,000) (the GEF Grant); and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

 

 

 

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions)  constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a)

(b)

The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 

made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 

withdrawals shall be 
any country which is not a member 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United  Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."

of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 

payment or import, to the 

for the purpose of any payment to 

(c)

In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 

and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 

withdrawals  under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
 

Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

(d)

Section 6.03 is modified to read:

"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 

Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of  the loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
satisfactory to 
expenditures in respect of 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of

the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 

contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 

such contract which would otherwise have been 

finance the Project’s costs to be 

time, the Bank determines, 

financed out of the 

of the Loan, that 

referred to 

such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 

proceeds of  the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, 
from the Guarantor pursuant to 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to  such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled."

the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

"BAPPENAS" means Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and 

includes any successor or successors thereto.

(b)

"BI" means Bank Indonesia, the central bank of the Borrower, established 

and operating under Law No. 13 of 1968 of the Borrower.

(c)

"BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 

the Borrower and BI pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BI Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and the term "BI Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the BI 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(d)

"BPPT" means Borrower’s Agency for the Assessment and Application of 

Technology, and includes any successor or successors thereto.

(e)

"Dealer" means an individual resident in Indonesia and cooperatives and 

private enterprises established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which is 
engaged in the sale of Solar Home Systems or other products in rural areas of 
Indonesia and to which a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Subloan.

(f)

"Dealer Obligations" means the standards for Dealer conduct referred to 

in paragraph B.2.c. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(g)

"DGEED" means the Directorate General of Electricity and Energy 

Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy.

(h)

"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on April 1 and ends on March 31 in 
each calendar year. 

(i)

"ISO 25" means the General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration 

and Testing Laboratory Accreditation, standard number 25 of the International 
Standards Organization.

(j)

"ISO 25 Action Plan" means the plan prepared by the Borrower in 

accordance with paragraph C.2.b. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

"Participating Banks" means, collectively, the Private Commercial Banks 
and the State-owned Commercial Banks, and "Participating Bank" means any one of them.

(k)

(l)

"Participating Bank Agreements" means, collectively, the Private Bank 

On-lending Agreements and the State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and 
"Participating Bank Agreement" means any one of them.

(m)

"Private Bank On-lending Agreement" means any agreement entered into 

between BI and a privately-owned commercial bank pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to such 
Private Bank On-lending Agreement. 

(n)

"Private Commercial Banks" means the commercial banks other than 

commercial banks owned by the Borrower which propose to make or have made a Subloan to 
a Dealer and which have entered into a Private Bank On-lending Agreement with BI, and 
"Private Commercial Bank" means any one of them.

(o)

"Project Area" means the Borrower’s provinces of Lampung, South Sulawesi 

and West Java (excluding the kecamatan of Surade, Agrabinta, Ciemas and Sagarantan) 
together with any kabupaten which is immediately contiguous to any of such provinces, 
and any other rural areas within the territory of the Borrower as may be agreed by the 
Borrower and the Bank.

(p)

"PSG" means the Project Support Group established by the Borrower and 

maintained in accordance with paragraph A.1.a. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(q)

"PT PLN" means Perseroan Terbatas Perusahaan Perseroan (PERSERO) P.T. 

Perusahaan Listrik Negara, a limited liability company established and existing under 
the laws of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.

(r)

"RESC" means the Rural Electrification Steering Committee established by 

the Borrower and maintained in accordance with paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

(s)
Agreement.

"Remedial Date" means the date referred to in Section 3.02 (e) of this 

(t)

"Sehat" means the classification of a Participating Bank as financially 

sound made by BI, from time to time, pursuant to Law No. 7 of 1992 of the Borrower.

(u)

"Solar Home System" and the acronym "SHS" mean a system of one or more 

solar photovoltaic panels, battery storage and battery charge and discharge 
controllers, suitable for powering energy-efficient home appliances, and at least 

three lighting fixtures with bulbs.

(v)

"Solar Home System Action Plan" means the plan developed and adopted by 

the Borrower in accordance with paragraph C.1.c. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(w)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(x)

"State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and a commercial bank owned by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules supplemental to such State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(y)

"State-owned Commercial Banks" means the commercial banks owned by the 

Borrower which propose to make or have made a Subloan to a Dealer and which have 
entered into a State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower, and 
"State-owned Commercial Bank" means any one of them.

(z)

"Subgrant" means a portion of the proceeds of the GEF Grant provided 

through a Participating Bank to a Dealer pursuant to the terms of the GEF Grant 
Agreement.

(aa)

"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 

Bank to a Dealer to finance a Subproject, funded in part out of the equivalent of the 
proceeds of the Loan relent to such Participating Bank under the respective State Bank 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Private Bank On-lending Agreement, as the case may be, 
and "Subloan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between a Participating 
Bank and a Dealer setting forth the terms and conditions under which a Subloan is to 
be made.

(bb)

"Subproject" means a specific investment project for the sale to 

customers and installation of Solar Home Systems in the Project Area, to be carried 
out by a Dealer utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan.

(cc)

"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided for in the respective State Bank 

Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Private Bank On-lending Agreement, as the case may be.

(dd)
Agreement.

"Supervision Date" means the date referred to in Section 3.02(e) of this 

(ee)

"Uncommitted Funds" means, as of a given date, the aggregate amount of 
the proceeds of the Loan on-lent to a Participating Bank pursuant to this Agreement, 
which at such date has not been committed by such Participating Bank to finance 
Subloans approved by the Bank.

(ff)

"Working Group" means the Solar Home Systems working group established by 

the Borrower and maintained in accordance with paragraph A.1.b. of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a Participating Bank on account of 
withdrawals made by a Dealer under a Subloan to finance the Subproject in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms 

(b)

and conditions  satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2002 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 

notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

(c)

For the purposes of this Section:

 

immediately 
Agreement, beginning 
Agreement is signed.

(i)

"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 

preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

with the Interest Period in which this 

"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 

Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 

(ii)
determined by the 
outstanding borrowings of 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

thereof as the Bank has allocated 
loans which may be made by 
determined otherwise 

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 

a calendar 
 

year.

(d)

On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 

to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

"(a)

The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 

Loan withdrawn 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 

of 1%). On each of the dates specified 

pay interest accrued on 

Period, 

"(b)

As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 

shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."

"(c)

(iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 

1, April 1,  July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 

February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02.  (a) The Borrower shall relend to BI an amount out of the proceeds 

of the Loan corresponding to the aggregate amount of Subloans to be made from time to 
time by the Private
Commercial Banks, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BI, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank 
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.

(b)

The Borrower shall cause BI to on-lend to each Private Commercial Bank 

the amount out of the proceeds of the BI Subsidiary Loan corresponding to the 
aggregate amount of Subloans  approved to be made by such Private Commercial Bank from 
time to time, under an on-lending agreement entered into between BI and such Private 
Commercial Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank 
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower shall relend to each State-owned Commercial Bank the amount 

out of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the aggregate amount of Subloans 
approved to be made by such State-owned Commercial Bank from time to time, under a 
subsidiary loan agreement entered into between the Borrower and such State-owned 
Commercial Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank 
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BI Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and shall ensure that BI 
shall exercise its rights under the Private Bank On-lending Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the 
State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof, and shall ensure that 
BI shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Private Bank On-lending Loan 
Agreements or any provision
thereof.

(e)

If at any time (the Supervision Date) the Borrower, through BI, 

determines that a Participating Bank is not in compliance with BI requirements so as 
to maintain its Sehat classification, the Borrower shall promptly, but in any event 
not later than thirty (30) days after the Supervision Date, require such Participating 
Bank to undertake measures to regain its Sehat status by a prescribed date (the 
Remedial Date). Promptly thereafter the Borrower shall inform the Bank that a 
situation has arisen that may require by the Remedial Date the reallocation of the 
Uncommitted Funds of such Participating Bank. If by the Remedial Date, in the opinion 
of BI, such Participating Bank has not regained its Sehat status, the Uncommitted 
Funds of such Participating Bank may, with the Bank’s prior approval, be allocated, in 
part or in total, by the Borrower or BI, as the case may be, to other Participating 
Banks for the financing of Subloans and the amount of the Subsidiary Loans made to 
each of such Participating Banks shall be revised accordingly.

Section 3.03.  (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 

agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph B.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

(b)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subsidiary 
Loan made to a State-owned Commercial Bank, and shall ensure that BI shall exercise 
its rights in relation to each Subsidiary Loan made to a Private Commercial Bank, in 
such manner as to:

(i)

protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower;

(ii)

comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and

(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and of BI and the 
Participating Banks.

(b)

The Borrower shall, and shall cause BI and the Participating Banks to:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account for each 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 

auditors, of such scope and in such 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

later than six 
report of such audit by said 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
 

and 
to time reasonably 
 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(a) of this 
 

(i)

(ii)

audit report 
Loan Account or 
all records (contracts, orders, 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 

invoices, bills, receipts and other 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 

 

 

 

 

 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
Year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

Section 4.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 

provide to any Dealer, whether directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, any loan, 
subsidy, grant, credit
enhancement or financing of any kind other than out of the proceeds of the Loan 
pursuant to this Agreement and the proceeds of the GEF Grant pursuant to the terms of 
the GEF Grant Agreement.

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified, namely, that the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the GEF Grant Agreement.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)
Borrower and BI;

the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 

(b)

the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 

conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and

at least two of the Participating Bank Agreements have been entered into 
between the respective Participating Banks and the Borrower or BI, as the case may be.

(c)

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 

ratified by the Borrower and BI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BI in 
accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement 

have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding 
upon such parties in accordance with their terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

Cable address:

Telex:

FINMINISTRY
Jakarta

45799 DJMLN - IA
44319 DEPKEU - IA

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

 

 

 

 

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Marianne Haug

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)  Subloans                20,000,000          80% of amounts
                             __________          disbursed

     TOTAL                   20,000,000
                             ==========

2.
made in respect of a Subloan:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

unless the Subloan has been approved by the Bank in accordance with 

paragraph B.3. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and

(b)

until the Participating Bank Agreement under which the Subloan is to be 

financed has been approved by the Bank and the Bank has been furnished with an opinion 
or opinions satisfactory
to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank to the effect that such Participating 
Bank Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by the parties thereto, and is 
legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

3.
of statements of expenditure for Subloans, in each case under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) expand 

availability of electricity to rural customers in Indonesia who cannot be served 
economically or in a timely manner
by conventional rural electrification; (b) facilitate participation by the private 
sector in advancing renewable energy commercialization; (c) promote environmentally 
sound energy resource
development and reduce the dependence of the Borrower’s energy sector on fossil fuels; 
(d) bring about cost effective mitigation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions; and (e) 
strengthen the Borrower’s institutional capacity to support and sustain decentralized 
rural electrification.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Provision of Subloans and Subgrants to finance Subprojects consisting of the 

sale and installation in the Project Area of an aggregate of about 200,000 Solar Home 
Systems by Dealers.

Technical Assistance

Part B:
 
1.
provision of consultants’ services in connection with:

Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity for Project implementation through 

(a)

the evaluation and monitoring of Dealer compliance with the terms and 

conditions of Subloans and the GEF Grant;

(b)

assessment of business plans and Subproject applications submitted by 

Dealers;

Dealers; and

(d)
customers.

(c)

establishment of contacts with and assessing the capacity of prospective 

maintenance of contacts with actual and prospective Solar Home System 

 

(b)

(c)

2.
strategy for the utilization of appropriate solar photovoltaic technology, through:

Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to design and implement a long-term 

(a)

the conduct of a decentralized rural electrification study to complement 

Borrower’s existing least-cost grid-based rural electrification plan;

the development of the Solar Home Systems Action Plan; and

provision of training and study tours in photovoltaic utilization for 

selected officials of the Borrower, including, without limitation, relevant officials 
of BPPT, DGEED and BAPPENAS, and for selected officials of private sector 
organizations involved in implementation of decentralized rural electrification by 
Solar Home Systems.

3.
Strengthening BPPT’s capability to technically certify Solar Home Systems and to 
monitor systems in the field, through the provision of training to selected BPPT staff 
in the use of appropriate testing equipment and techniques.

*          *          *          *          *

The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2001.

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                    (expressed in Dollars)1

August 15, 2002                                  390,000
February 15, 2003                                405,000
August 15, 2003                                  415,000
February 15, 2004                                430,000
August 15, 2004                                  445,000
February 15, 2005                                460,000
August 15, 2005                                  480,000
February 15, 2006                                495,000
August 15, 2006                                  510,000
February 15, 2007                                530,000
August 15, 2007                                  550,000
February 15, 2008                                565,000
August 15, 2008                                  585,000
February 15, 2009                                605,000
August 15, 2009                                  630,000
February 15, 2010                                650,000
August 15, 2010                                  670,000
February 15, 2011                                695,000
August 15, 2011                                  720,000
February 15, 2012                                745,000
August 15, 2012                                  770,000
February 15, 2013                                795,000
August 15, 2013                                  825,000
February 15, 2014                                855,000
August 15, 2014                                  885,000
February 15, 2015                                915,000
August 15, 2015                                  945,000
February 15, 2016                                980,000
August 15, 2016                                1,010,000
February 15, 2017                              1,045,000
__________________________

1
respective 
4.03.

The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 

Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 

the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                    Premium

                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable
                              to the Loan on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                     0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but not more            0.30
     than six years before maturity

More than six years but not more              0.55
     than 11 years before maturity

More than 11 years but not more               0.80
     than 16 years before maturity

More than 16 years but not more               0.90
     than 18 years before maturity

More than 18 years before maturity            1.00

SCHEDULE 4

Implementation Program

A.
 
1.
 

Project Management.

The Borrower shall establish:

a.

no later than May 15, 1997, a project support group, to be responsible 

for, inter alia, monitoring compliance by Dealers with the Dealer Obligations and the 
development of contacts with prospective and actual Solar Home System customers; and

b.

no later than November 30, 1997, a working group to be headed by the 

Director of Electric Power Planning of DGEED and with representation from BAPPENAS, 
BPPT, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprise 
Development of the Borrower, and PT PLN, to be responsible for coordinating and 
assisting consultants engaged in connection with the implementation of subparagraphs 
(a) and (b) of Part B.2 of the Project; and shall maintain both groups throughout the 
period of implementation of the Project, with terms of reference, membership,
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank.

The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 

2.
Project the Rural Electrification Steering Committee, to be responsible for, inter 
alia, coordinating the activities of the PSG and the Working Group.

Financial Arrangements.

B.
 
1.
Agreement shall include:

BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The terms and conditions of the BI Subsidiary Loan 

a.

The obligation of BI to on-lend funds so re-lent under the BI Subsidiary 

Loan Agreement to the Private Commercial Banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank which shall include, without limitation, the terms and conditions set 
forth in paragraph B.2 of this Schedule;

b.

the obligation of BI to supervise the financial performance of each 

Participating Bank and to require that each Participating Bank undertakes measures to 
maintain or regain, as the case may be, its Sehat classification; and

c.

the obligation of BI to require that Participating Banks party to Private 

Bank On-Lending Agreements agree to make Subloans to Dealers only on the terms and 
conditions set forth in paragraph B.3 of this Schedule.

Private Bank On-lending Agreements and State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 

2.
The terms and conditions of the respective Private Bank On-lending Agreements and the 
State Bank Subsidiary Loan
Agreements shall include:

a.

the obligation of each Participating Bank to:

 

(i)

pay interest on the Subsidiary Loan at a variable rate per annum 
average six months interest rate per annum of Bank 

equal to the 
Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank 
maturity.  Such rate is to be adjusted on 
of each year, commencing on July 1, 1997, and calculated 
average of SBI three month maturity quotations during the 
preceding six months; provided, however, that the interest rate on the 

Indonesia (SBI) with three month 

January 1 and July 1 

based on the 

Subsidiary Loan for the period from the date of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 

through July 1, 1997, shall be determined on the basis of the average of 

per annum interest rate of SBI three month maturity quotations 
months preceding July 1, 1997; provided further, 

the 
during the six 
however, that each 
BI, as the case may be, may, with the 
alternate basis for determining the interest rate 
Participating Bank on its Subsidiary Loan that better reflects 
cost of domestic term funds;

Bank’s approval, agree on an 
payable by such 

Participating Bank and the Borrower or 

the 

(ii)

repay the Subsidiary Loan over a period of 20 years, including a 

grace period 
 

of five years; and

or BI in the 
the undisbursed 
annum rate identical to the 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
 

(iii) pay the Borrower in the case of each State-owned Commercial Bank, 

case of each Private Commercial Bank, a commitment charge on 

portion of its respective Subsidiary Loan at a per 
rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank 

Agreement;

b.

the obligation of each Participating Bank to on-lend funds so re-lent 

under the Private Bank On-lending Agreements and the State Bank Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to the Dealers, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which 
shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.3.c. of this Schedule, 
and to exercise its rights in relation to each such Subloan made by it, in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and such Participating Bank;

c.

the obligation of Participating Banks to supervise the financial 

performance of each Dealer and to require that each Dealer comply with standards for 
Dealer conduct, reporting and
consumer protection acceptable to the Bank;

d.

the obligation of Participating Banks to ensure that Dealers have 

accounting and internal controls, including auditing arrangements, adequate to provide 
the financial information needed by the Participating Banks;

e.

the obligation of Participating Banks to make disbursements in respect of 

Subloans only to Dealers of Solar Home Systems that have:

(i)

current operations including sales of solar home systems or other 

rural areas of the Borrower;

Solar Home 
capacity and intent to make 
 

(ii)

prepared a business plan acceptable to the Bank for the sale of 
Systems on a hire purchase basis and demonstrated 

installment payment collections;

(iii) prepared and submitted a credit application to a Participating 

products in 
 

Bank;

(iv)

prepared and submitted consumer protection plans, including a 

returns policy, 
Bank; and

Obligations;

warranties and aftersales service acceptable to the 

(v)

agreed to abide by and are in compliance with the Dealer 

f.

the agreement of the Participating Bank that:

amended from 
made or proposed to 
 

such 
such Participating 
Bank Agreement to which 
amended accordingly; and

(i)

the Participating Bank Agreement to which it is a party will be 
time to time to reflect the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 

be made to such Participating Bank; and

(ii)

the Borrower or BI, as the case may be, may reduce the amount of 
Participating Bank’s Subsidiary Loan by an amount equal to 
Bank’s Uncommitted Funds, and that the Participating 

such Participating Bank is a party will be 

g.

no obligation to pay any administration or banking fee (other than 
interest charged in accordance with paragraph B.2.a.(i) of this Schedule) to the 
Borrower or BI, as the case may be, on the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan disbursed 
to such Participating Bank. 

3.
 

Subloans to Dealers.

a.

No expenditures for goods required for a Subproject shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Subloan for such Subproject shall 
have been approved by the Bank.

b.

When presenting a Subloan to the Bank for approval, the Participating 

Bank shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank an application, in form satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Dealer and an appraisal of the 
proposed Sub-project, including the Dealer’s business plan; (ii) the proposed terms 
and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization thereof; and 
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

c.

Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Bank shall 

obtain, by written contract with the Dealer or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the 
Participating Bank, including the right to:

and 
financial, managerial and 
adequate records; 

(i)

require the Dealer to carry out the Subproject with due diligence 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 

environmental standards, and to maintain 

(ii)

require that: (a) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 

shall be procured at a reasonable price, account 

relevant factors such as time of 

the Loan 
being taken also of other 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of 
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
 

the goods and availability 

and (b) such goods 

Subproject;

the Bank 
thereof and any relevant 
 

(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 

shall so request, such goods and the operation 
records and documents;

(iv)

require that: (a) the Dealer shall take out and maintain with 

responsible 
such amounts, as shall be 
(b) without any limitation upon 
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Dealer to replace or repair such 

insurers such insurance, against such risks and in 
consistent with sound business practice; and 

the foregoing, such insurance shall 

transportation and 

to the place 

goods;

(v)

obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or the PSG 

shall 
administration, 
Dealer and to the benefits to be 
 

reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
operations and financial condition of the 

derived from the Subproject; and

(vi)

suspend or terminate the right of the Dealer to the use of the 

Loan upon failure by such Dealer to perform its 

with the Participating Bank.

d.

The terms and conditions of the respective Subloan Agreements shall 

proceeds of the 
obligations under its contract 
 

include the following:

and shall 
similar loans;

(i)

Subloans shall have a maximum repayment period of five (5) years, 

bear interest at the prevailing market rate in Indonesia for 

Schedule 1 
financing out of the 
such Subproject shall have been 
 

(ii)

without limitation to the proviso set forth in paragraph 2 (a) of 

to this Agreement, no expenditures shall be eligible for 

proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-loan for 

approved by the Bank;

and upon 
the Bank, that 
or exceed the technical 
approved by the Bank; and

(iii) undertakings by the Dealer to provide to the PSG from time to time 
request certification, from testing facilities acceptable to 
the Solar Home Systems to be sold by such Dealer meet 
specifications established by the Borrower and 

Systems to 
under a Subloan.

(iv)

except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, only sales of Solar Home 
users within the Project Area will be eligible for financing 

Payment Procedures.  Disbursement of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans by the 

4.
Borrower and BI shall be made pursuant to procedures and subject to documentation 
acceptable to the Bank.

C.
 
1.
 

2.
 

Implementation of Technical Assistance

Solar Home System Action Plan.  The Borrower shall, through DGEED:

a.

undertake and furnish to the Bank for review and comment no later than 
September 30, 1998, a draft final version of the decentralized rural electrification 
study under Part B.2.(a) of
the Project, in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank;

to in sub-paragraph a. above; and

promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the study referred 

prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment no later than 

March 31, 1999, a draft decentralized rural electrification plan with a focus on solar 
photovoltaic technology under Part B.2.(b) of the Project and based on the study and 
review thereof referred to in sub-paragraphs a. and b. above, and, thereafter, 
finalize and adopt said plan no later than November 30, 1999, taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon.

b.

c.

ISO 25 Action Plan.  The Borrower shall, through BPPT:

a.

no later than October 31, 1997, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable 

to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 of the GEF Grant 
Agreement, engage and mobilize consultants to assist in the implementation of Part 
B.3. of the Project;

b.

prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment no later than 

February 28, 1998, a time-bound action plan for the achievement of ISO 25 status for 
BPPT’s Energy Technology Laboratory; and

c.

complete the implementation of the technical assistance to be provided 

under Part B.3. of the Project no later than October 31, 1999.

Monitoring and Reporting

D.
 
1.
shall:

Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 

a.

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;

b.

prepare, or cause the PSG to prepare, under terms of reference 

satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31 in each 
year, commencing December 31, 1997, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and

c.

review with the Bank, by February 28 in each year, commencing February 

28, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph b. above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1.
 

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in the table in 

paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,800,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been  duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(i)

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 
 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.

Account such amount as the 
been shown by 

the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 

6.
(a)
Special Account:

to paragraph 
 

(i)

was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 

2 of this Schedule; or

(ii)

was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 

Borrower shall, 
additional evidence as 
Special Account (or, if the Bank 
amount equal to the amount of such 
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 

promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 

shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 

payment or the portion thereof 

shall otherwise 

agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 

shall 

deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 6

Performance Indicators

(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE, FORMAT IS TOO BIG)

