CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4174 TUN

(Greater Tunis Sewerage and Re-use Project)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 19, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4174 TUN 

AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the 

Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Office National de l’ 

Assainissement (ONAS) with the Bank’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Bank has agreed to make available a loan to ONAS, guaranteed by the Borrower, in an 
amount equal to two hundred eighty-three million French Francs (FRF283,000,000) to 
assist in financing part of the cost of Part A of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in a loan agreement of even date herewith (the ONAS Loan 
Agreement, as further defined in Section 1.02 (j) of this Agreement); and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:

Section 6.03 is modified to read:

“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 

suspended 

proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 

respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
of thirty days, or 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be  required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
determines, with 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives  of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the  situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such  contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
that  the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 

amount of the Loan shall remain 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 

notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 

the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 

timely and appropriate action 

out of the proceeds of the 

of such contract 

giving of 

the Loan 

the 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of Part 

B.1 or B.2 of the Project had or would have either his/her: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired 
or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place 
of residence or habitat adversely affected;

(b)

“ANPE” means the Borrrower’s National Agency for Environmental Protection 

(Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l’Environment), established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s  Law  No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988 and its implementation 
decree No. 88-1784 dated October 18, 1988, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;

(c)

“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Agreement; and the term 
“Categories” means more than one Category collectively;

(d)

“Basic Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law No. 74-73 dated  August 3, 
1974, as amended and completed by the Borrower’s Law No. 93-41 dated April 19, 1993, 
and its implementation Decree No. 95-1139 dated June 28, 1995, pursuant to which ONAS 
has been established and is operating as an industrial and commercial public 
institution (établissement public à caractère industriel et commercial);

(e)

“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;

(f)

“Decree No. 91-362” means the Borrower’s Decree No. 91-362 dated March 

13, 1991 regarding the preparation of environmental impact assessments;

“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 

(g)

31 in each calendar year;

(h)
of France;

“French Franc” and “FRF” means each the lawful currency of the Republic 

(i)

“MOA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower (Ministère de 

l’Agriculture) established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 87-779 dated May 21, 1987, as amended by the Borrower’s Decree No. 88-1101 
dated June 9, 1988, and as it may be further amended from time to time;

(j)

“ONAS Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement of even date herewith 

between the Bank and the Office National de l’Assainissement for the Project (Loan No. 
4175 TUN);

(k)

“Performance Contract” means the agreement (contrat-programme) between 

the Borrower and ONAS setting forth reciprocal undertakings designed to enable the 
Borrower and ONAS to achieve certain financial, investment and operational targets 
during Fiscal Years 1997 through 2001;

(l)

“Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators set 

forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower to measure the 
progress in the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the degree to which the 
objectives thereof are being achieved; and

(m)
this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifty-seven million French Francs (FRF57,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and 
maintain in French Francs a separate special deposit account in its Central Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 

and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of Part B of the Project

Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall, through 
the MOA, carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, 
financial, irrigation and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the 
Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, at all times: (i) carry out the Performance 
Contract with due diligence and efficiency and take all action necessary to achieve 
the targets and objectives therein set forth; and (ii) duly perform its obligations 
under the Performance Contract and, except as the Borrower, ONAS and the Bank may 
otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said Performance Contract or any provision 
thereof.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part B of the 
Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 

of this Section, including those for the Special Account, 

for 

each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
principles consistently applied, by 
to the Bank;

independent auditors acceptable 

appropriate auditing 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 

the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

scope and in such 

Year, 

requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 

records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 

shall 

from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 

paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 

reflecting such expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has 

received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the 

withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

last 
(contracts, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 

and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 

annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 

and 

that the report of such audit contains a separate 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
during such Fiscal Year, together 
controls involved in their 
support the related 

withdrawals.

opinion by said 
expenditure submitted 

with the procedures and internal 

preparation, can be relied upon to 

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Loan Agreement.

ONAS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the ONAS 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ONAS will be able to perform its obligations under the ONAS Loan Agreement.

(c)

The Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ONAS to 
perform any of its obligations under the ONAS Loan Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONAS or for the suspension of 
its operations.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

(b)

Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ONAS Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; 
and

(b)

The Performance Contract has been duly authorized, approved and executed 

on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 

of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of International Cooperation
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia

Cable address: 

MCIIE

For the Bank:

Telex:

18060

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Gianni Brizzi 

Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
in French Francs

    % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

(1)

Works

23,000,000

100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures,
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

(2)

Goods, including
equipment and
its installation 

23,000,000

 6,000,000

100%

(3)

Consultants’
Services and
Training

(4)

Unallocated

TOTAL

 5,000,000
 _________

57,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

(b)

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts costing less than 
$3,000,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms, under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and ONAS in: (i) 

improving service levels of urban sewerage; (ii) promoting efficient re-use of 
effluent from sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes; (iii) reducing urban 
and coastal pollution; (iv) improving ONAS’ cost recovery and financial capacity, with 
the long-term objective of achieving ONAS’ financial autonomy; (v) introducing 
appropriate new sewage treatment technology; and (vi) developing private sector 
participation in the sewerage sector.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Urban Sewerage

Carrying out of the Greater Tunis sewerage program, comprising the execution of 

works, the provision of equipment, and the carrying out of studies and research work 
required to implement the following:

expansion and rehabilitation of the Tunis South (Meliane) waste water treatment 

1.
plant in the southern basin of Tunis to increase its capacity to about 675,000 
population (approximately 70,000 cubic meters per day);

restructuring of the Tunis West sewage collection system, including the 

2.
construction of approximately fifty-two (52) kilometers of primary sewers, in order to 
divert part of the sewage to the plant envisioned to be constructed separately under a 
concession scheme associating the private sector thereto;

3.
strengthening of the Tunis South sewage collection system and connection of the 
villages of Mornag and Radès to the Tunis South (Meliane) waste water treatment plant, 
entailing the construction of a collection system of about forty-eight (48) kilometers 
of main sewer;

4.
extension of the Tunis North sewage collection system by about thirty-three (33) 
kilometers, construction of a liaison conduit of about four (4) kilometers between the 
waste water treatment plants of Tunis North and Choutrana, and rehabilitation of the 
waste water treatment plant of Tunis North;

extension, rehabilitation, and resizing of the sewage collection networks of 

5.
Tunis Central and North to prevent salty groundwater intrusion, including the 
construction of about forty-five (45) kilometers of sewers; and

6.
about two hundred thirty (230) kilometers of sewers.

strengthening of all secondary sewer systems, requiring the construction of 

Part B:

Re-use of Treated Sewage for Agriculture

Carrying out of a program to promote the reuse of treated sewage for 

agriculture, and comprising:

1.
water to be used for irrigation;

construction of a storage basin in the El Attar Valley to store treated waste 

construction of a pumping station, balancing reservoirs, access roads, 

2.
windbreaks, and water supply and irrigation systems for purposes of equipping an area 
of about one thousand (1,000) ha in the El Attar Valley; and

3.
treated with an appropriate tertiary method.

carrying out of a pilot project for groundwater recharge with purified sewage 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

A.

General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

(c)
Agreement.

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.

B.

Interest

1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

PIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

PIBOR Total Spread.

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings:

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“PIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French 
Francs for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 

Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris interbank 

offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
thereof made by it that include 
Period;

or portions thereof 
currency loans or portions 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 

deposits, in 

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 

per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 

Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 

Paris interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
portions thereof allocated to 
thereof made by it 

that include such Disbursed Amount; plus

outstanding borrowings or 
fund single currency loans or portions 

for six-month 

(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 

for such Disbursed Amount;

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the PIBOR Base Rate, the PIBOR Total 

4.
Spread, the Fixed Base Rate and the Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed 
Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment

1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

2.
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants' Services

Section I.

Procurement of Good and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works under Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 

the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

1.
Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works under 

provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

The following provisions shall apply to goods and works under Part B of the 

2.
Project to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.

(a)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

(b)

Notification and Advertising

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract under Part B of the 
Project estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

(i)

Equipment under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than 

$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent; (ii) pipe supplies under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$700,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent; (iii) works for irrigation and pipe laying under Part B of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.

National Shopping

Goods under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $250,000 

equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Prior Review

With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 

$500,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.

2.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

1.
Consultants’ services under Part B of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have 
been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 

contracts shall not apply to: (i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Section I:

Project Design and Implementation Arrangements

(a)

In order to ensure that the best Project design, including cost 

considerations, is adopted for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower, through the MOA, shall carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and submit to the Bank for its review and approval: (i) not later than 
December 31, 1998, a feasibility study and an environmental impact assessment on the 
agricultural perimeter to be irrigated with treated waste water; and (ii) not later 
than December 31, 1999, final designs on the said perimeter.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, before 
commencing the implementation of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
the MOA, define implementation arrangements therefor satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the undertaking of the relevant Commissariats Regionaux au Développement 
Agricole and concerned agencies to monitor Part B of the Project.

Section II:

Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project

The Borrower undertakes that it shall only commence the construction, under Part 

B.1 or B.2 of the Project, of the storage basin or a balancing reservoir, as the case 
may be, once the Bank shall have been satisfied that:

(a)

the storage basin or the balancing reservoir, as the case may be, is 

determined to be, on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, financially 
viable and designed in accordance with appropriate safety, health and environment 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and ANPE, including, in particular, the 
fulfillment of the requirements of the Decree No. 91-362;

(b)

the land necessitated for its construction shall not involve any Affected 

Person; and

(c)

adequate safety measures are in place, and that the Borrower has arranged 

for an independent panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank, with specific expertise 
in the various technical fields relevant to the basin or reservoir safety aspects of 
the particular construction:

(i)

to conduct a review of the concept of the basin or 

reservoir, as the case may be, and its associated 

structures, and the conformity of its technical design 
commencement of the works under the Project;

before the 

(ii)

(A) to review and to evaluate the Borrower’s operation and 

maintenance procedures of the basin or reservoir, as the 

case 

may be, including the plan for construction 
quality assurance, the plan for 
emergency preparedness plan; and 
findings and 
safety-related 
as 

instrumentation, and the 

(B) to provide a written report of 

supervision and 

recommendations for any remedial work or 
measures necessary to upgrade the basin or reservoir, 

the case may be, to an acceptable standard of safety during 

the carrying out of the works under the Project; and

(iii) to carry out annual safety inspections under arrangements 

satisfactory to the Bank after completion of the works 

under 

the Project.

Section III: Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

(a)

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 

Conditions, the Borrower shall, commencing on March 31, 1999 and not later than 
September 30 and March 31 in each Fiscal Year and until Project completion, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower and 
the Bank shall reasonably establish, describing, in accordance with parameters 
acceptable to the Bank, the progress achieved in the implementation of Part B of the 
Project during the preceding six-month period.

(b)

For the purposes of the preparation of the report due March 31 in each 

Fiscal Year, the parameters to be utilized by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of the preceding paragraph (a) shall include the Performance Indicators evaluated on a 
yearly basis. 

Section IV:

Mid-Term Review

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 

Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient management and 
completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to FRF6,000,000 to 

be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
FRF3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project shall be equal to or exceed 
FRF12,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 

(i)

Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 

shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 

required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
each such request, the Bank 
withdraw from the Loan 
such amount as 
been 

shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 

Account and deposit into the Special Account 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 

shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 

requested. On the basis of 

payment or 

paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
other evidence.

in the respective 
justified by said documents and 

Loan Account 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories for Part B of the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
for Part B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of  

(a)

pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

