CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4175 TUN

Loan Agreement

(Greater Tunis Sewerage and Re-use Project)

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

between

and

OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT

Dated December 19, 1997 

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4175 TUN 

AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT 
(the Borrower).

WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 

been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;

(B)

by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

(C)

Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Guarantor with the 

Bank’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bank has agreed to make 
available a loan to the Guarantor in an amount equal to fifty-seven million French 
Francs (FRF57,000,000) to assist in financing part of the cost of Part B of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement of even date 
herewith (the Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement, as further defined in Section 1.02 
(h) of this Agreement); and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:

Section 6.03 is modified to read:

“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 

suspended 

proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 

respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
of thirty days, or 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be  required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
determines, with 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives  of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the  situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such  contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
that  the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”

amount of the Loan shall remain 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 

notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 

the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 

timely and appropriate action 

out of the proceeds of the 

of such contract 

giving of 

the Loan 

the 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Agreement; and the term 
“Categories” means more than one Category collectively;

(b)

“Basic Legislation” means the Guarantor’s Law No. 74-73 dated  August 3, 
1974, as amended and completed by the Guarantor’s Law No. 93-41 dated April 19, 1993, 
and its implementation Decree No. 95-1139 dated June 28, 1995, pursuant to which the 
Borrower has been established and is operating as an industrial and commercial public 
institution (établissement public à caractère industriel et commercial);

(c)

“Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators set 

forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower to measure the 
progress in the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the degree to which the 
objectives thereof are being achieved;

(d)

“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Guarantor’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;

(e)
of France;

“French Franc” and “FRF” means each the lawful currency of the Republic 

(f)

“Performance Contract” means the agreement (contrat-programme) between 

the Guarantor and the Borrower setting forth reciprocal undertakings designed to 

enable the Guarantor and the Borrower to achieve certain financial, investment and 
operational targets during Fiscal Years 1997 through 2001; and

(g)

“Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement of even 

date herewith between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank for the Project (Loan No. 
4174 TUN).

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred eighty-three million French Francs (FRF283,000,000).

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on February 

15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Part A of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower

Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, financial, technical 
and waste water practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the 

future operation of Part A of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, at all times: (i) carry out the Performance 
Contract with due diligence and efficiency and take all action necessary to achieve 
the targets and objectives therein set forth; and (ii) duly perform its obligations 
under the Performance Contract and, except as the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank 
may otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said Performance Contract or any provision 
thereof.

Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 

in accordance with sound administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, 
financial, public utility, technical and waste water practices under the supervision 
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.

Section 3.06. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, environmental, financial, sewerage, technical and water practices.

Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 

insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 

reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have its records, accounts and financial statements 

(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 

related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
with appropriate auditing principles 
independent auditors acceptable to 

the Bank;

accordance 
consistently applied, by 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

not later than seven (7) months after the end of each such 

Year: 

(A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
scope and in such detail as the 
and

by said auditors of such 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; 

such Year as so 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 

records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 

thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 

audit 
reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 

paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 

reflecting such expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has 

received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the 

withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

last 
(contracts, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 

and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 

annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 

and 

that the report of such audit contains a separate 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
during such Fiscal Year, together 
controls involved in their 
support the related 

withdrawals.

opinion by said 
expenditure submitted 

with the procedures and internal 

preparation, can be relied upon to 

Section 4.02. (a)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal 
Year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least one point three 
(1.3) times the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on 
all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower 

maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date 

on which it is originally incurred.

(ii)

Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 

contract or agreement or other instrument providing for 

such 

debt or for the modification of its terms of payment 
contract, agreement or instrument; and 
on the date the agreement 
into.

on the date of such 
(B) under a guarantee agreement, 
providing for such guarantee has been entered 

(iii) The term “net revenues” means the difference between:

(A)

the sum of revenues from all sources related to 

operations and net non-operating income; and 

(B)

the sum of all expenses related to operations 

including administration, adequate maintenance, 

taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
depreciation, other non-cash operating 
other charges on debt.

charges and interest and 

provision for 

(iv)

The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 

between:

(A)
to operations; and

revenues from all sources other than those related 

(B)

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 

taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) 

above.

(v)

The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 

amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 

any) 

of, and interest and other charges on, debt.

(vi)
the Borrower not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to 

The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 

the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank 
the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the 
notified the Borrower of its acceptability, 
event has occurred since such notification 
reasonably be expected in the future to 
effect on the financial condition 
the Borrower.

and 

Bank has 

provided that no 

which has, or may 
have, a material adverse 
or future operating results of 

(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 

necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 

Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
which such other currency is, at the time of 
for the purposes of servicing 
rate, on the basis of 

such debt, or, in the absence of such 

a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

such valuation, obtainable 

shall 
exchange at 

Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 

generate, for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 
1997, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than thirty percent (30%) of 
the annual average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be 
incurred, for that year and the two (2) next following Fiscal Years.

(b)

Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the two (2) next following Fiscal Years and shall furnish to the Bank a copy 
of such review upon its completion.

(c)

If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 

requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its sewerage tariffs) in 
order to meet such requirements.

(d)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)
between:

The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 

(A)

the sum of revenues from all sources related to 

operations, consumer deposits and consumer 

contributions in aid of construction, net 
income and any reduction in working 
and

capital other than cash; 

non-operating 

(B)

the sum of all expenses related to operations, 

including administration, adequate maintenance and 

taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding 
depreciation and other non-cash 
service requirements, all 
distributions of 
than cash 

cash dividends and other cash 
surplus, increase in working capital other 

and other cash outflows other than capital 

operating charges), debt 

provision for 

expenditures.

(ii)

The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 

between:

(A)
operations; and

revenue from all sources other than those related to 

(B)

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 

taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) 

above.

(iii) The term “working capital other than cash” means the 

difference between current assets excluding cash and 

current liabilities at the end of each Fiscal Year.

(iv)

The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets 

other than cash which could in the ordinary course of 

business be converted into cash within twelve (12) months, 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
expenses properly chargeable to 
Fiscal Year.

inventories and pre-paid 

including 

operating expenses within the next 

(v)

The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which 

will become due and payable or could under circumstances 

existing be called for payment within twelve (12) 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 

and dividends.

then 
months, including 

service requirements, 

(vi)

The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 

amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 

any) 

of, and interest and other charges on, debt.

(vii) The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures on 

account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 

construction, related to operations.

(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 

necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 

Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
which such other currency is, at the time of 
for the purposes of servicing 
rate, on the basis of 

such debt, or, in the absence of such 

a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

such valuation, obtainable 

shall 
exchange at 

Section 4.04. The Borrower agrees, within the limits of its prerogatives to set 

levels of its sewerage tariffs, to take all necessary measures to achieve full 
recovery of its operation and maintenance costs and make a reasonable contribution to 
its investment costs, including, without limitation, increases for each of its Fiscal 
Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1997, to the overall level of 
existing sewer tariffs, of eight percent (8%), or such other percentage necessary to 
achieve such requirement.

Section 4.05. The provisions of Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the Project Agreement 
between the Bank and the Borrower dated September 21, 1994 (Loan No. 3782 TUN - Water 
Supply and Sewerage Project) are hereby amended to read as set forth, respectively, in 
Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement.

Section 4.06. The Borrower agrees, within the limits of its prerogatives to set 
levels of its sewerage tariffs, to restructure, not later than December 31, 2002, the 
existing progressive tariff rate structure to limit, in accordance with guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank, the benefits of cross subsidy to those domestic consumers in 
the first tranches.

Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all adequate action necessary to ensure 
that a comprehensive and separate cost-accounting system to monitor and evaluate the 
cost of its operations, including the cost of storm-water drainage, industry or 
tourism, shall be implemented and operational not later than December 31, 2000.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 

the Republic of Tunisia Loan Agreement.

(b)

The Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 

repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events specified:

(a)

The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

(b)

The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

(b)

The Performance Contract has been executed on behalf of the Borrower; and

All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Republic of Tunisia 

Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement.

Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The President General Director of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

For the Borrower:

Office National de l’Assainissement
32, rue Hédi Nouira
1001 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia

Cable address: 

ONAS Tunis

Telex:

15080

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Gianni Brizzi 

Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa

OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ASSAINISSEMENT

By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Authorized Representative

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

Amount of the            % of
Loan Allocated
in French Francs

Expenditures
to be Financed

(1)

Works

136,000,000

100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures,
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

(2)

Goods, including
equipment and
its installation

102,000,000

 17,000,000

100%

(3)

Consultants'
Services and
Training

(4)

Unallocated

TOTAL

 28,000,000
 __________

283,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Guarantor for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Guarantor or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the 
Guarantor.

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 

less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts costing less than 
$3,000,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms, under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor and the Borrower in: 

(i) improving service levels of urban sewerage; (ii) promoting efficient re-use of 
effluent from sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes; (iii) reducing urban 
and coastal pollution; (iv) improving the Borrower’s cost recovery and financial 
capacity, with the long-term objective of achieving the Borrower’s financial autonomy; 
(v) introducing appropriate new sewage treatment technology; and (vi) developing 
private sector participation in the sewerage sector.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Urban Sewerage

Carrying out of the Greater Tunis sewerage program, comprising the execution of 

works, the provision of equipment, and the carrying out of studies and research work 
required to implement the following:

expansion and rehabilitation of the Tunis South (Meliane) waste water treatment 

1.
plant in the southern basin of Tunis to increase its capacity to about 675,000 
population (approximately 70,000 cubic meters per day);

restructuring of the Tunis West sewage collection system, including the 

2.
construction of approximately fifty-two (52) kilometers of primary sewers, in order to 
divert part of the sewage to the plant envisioned to be constructed separately under a 
concession scheme associating the private sector thereto;

strengthening of the Tunis South sewage collection system and connection of the 
3.
villages of Mornag and Radès to the Tunis South (Meliane) waste water treatment plant, 
entailing the construction of a collection system of about forty-eight (48) kilometers 
of main sewer;

extension of the Tunis North sewage collection system by about thirty-three (33) 
4.
kilometers, construction of a liaison conduit of about four (4) kilometers between the 
waste water treatment plants of Tunis North and Choutrana, and rehabilitation of the 
waste water treatment plant of Tunis North;

extension, rehabilitation, and resizing of the sewage collection networks of 

5.
Tunis Central and North to prevent salty groundwater intrusion, including the 
construction of about forty-five (45) kilometers of sewers; and

6.
about two hundred thirty (230) kilometers of sewers.

strengthening of all secondary sewer systems, requiring the construction of 

Part B:

Re-use of Treated Sewage for Agriculture

Carrying out of a program to promote the reuse of treated sewage for 

agriculture, and comprising:

1.
water to be used for irrigation;

construction of a storage basin in the El Attar Valley to store treated waste 

construction of a pumping station, balancing reservoirs, access roads, 

2.
windbreaks, and water supply and irrigation systems for purposes of equipping an area 
of about one thousand (1,000) ha in the El Attar Valley; and

3.

carrying out of a pilot project for groundwater recharge with purified sewage 

treated with an appropriate tertiary method.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

A.

General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

(c)
Agreement.

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.

B.

Interest

The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
1.
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

PIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

PIBOR Total Spread.

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings:

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“PIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French 
Francs for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 

Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris interbank 

offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
thereof made by it that include 
Period;

or portions thereof 
currency loans or portions 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 

deposits, in 

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 

Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 

Paris interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
portions thereof allocated to 
thereof made by it 

that include such Disbursed Amount; plus

outstanding borrowings or 
fund single currency loans or portions 

for six-month 

(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 

for such Disbursed Amount;

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the PIBOR Base Rate, the 

4.
PIBOR Total Spread, the Fixed Base Rate and the Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment

1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

2.
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after February 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.

3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Good and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works under Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 

the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works under 

1.
Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

The following provisions shall apply to goods and works under Part A of the 

2.
Project to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.

(a)

Prequalification

Bidders for the extension and rehabilitation of the Tunis South (Meliane) waste 

water treatment plant under Part A.1 of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.

(b)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

 The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.

(c)

Notification and Advertising

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract under Part A of the 
Project estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

(i) Equipment under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 

equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 
equivalent; (ii) pipe supplies under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$20,000,000 equivalent; (iii) works and pipe laying under Part A of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $50,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.

National Shopping

Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $250,000 

equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Prior Review

With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 

$500,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.

2.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

1.
Consultants’ services under Part A of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have 
been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Section I:

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

(a)

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 

1.
Conditions, the Borrower shall, commencing on March 31, 1999 and not later than 
September 30 and March 31 in each Fiscal Year and until Project completion, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the 
Borrower shall reasonably establish, describing, in accordance with parameters 
acceptable to the Bank, the progress achieved in the implementation of Part A of the 
Project during the preceding six-month period.

(b)

For the purposes of the preparation of the report due March 31 in each 

Fiscal Year, the parameters to be utilized by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of the preceding paragraph (a) shall include the Performance Indicators evaluated on a 
yearly basis.

Section II:

Mid-Term Review

2. 

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 

to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 

Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient management and 
completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof and 
of the Performance Indicators, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank views on the matter.

