CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4179 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated August 29, 1997 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4179 CHA 

AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

(B)

Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Yellow River Diversion 
Project Corporation (YRDPC, as defined in Section 1.02(p) of this Agreement) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to its Province of Shanxi (Shanxi), for relending to YRDPC, part of the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 

(C)

Part B of the Project will be carried out by Shanxi with the Borrower’s 

assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Shanxi 
part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

(D)

the Borrower intends to contract from other external sources of funding 

(the Cofinancier) a loan (the Cofinancing Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
approximately $30,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Cofinancing Loan Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Cofinancier; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Shanxi 
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and YRDPC;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:

“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 

finance the Project’s costs to be 

Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of  the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
satisfactory to 
expenditures in respect of 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 

contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 

the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 

such contract which would otherwise have been 

time, the Bank determines, 

financed out of the 

of the Loan, that 

the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 

the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 

unwithdrawn from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to  such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 

and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 

(a)

“Beneficiary” means an enterprise to which Shanxi proposes to make, or 

has made, a Sub-loan. 

(b)

“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 

1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

(c)

“Complementary Investment Program” means the program of investments, 

referred to in Part C of Schedule 2 to the Shanxi Project Agreement, to be completed 
by Taiyuan’s water supply authority pursuant to the provisions of said Part. 

(d)

“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, referred to in Part D.1 
of Schedule to the YRDPC Project Agreement, designed to ensure the implementation of 
Part A of the Project in accordance with sound health, safety and environmental 
standards. 

(e)

“Fen Dam” means the dam and associated structures located on the Fen 

River in Loufan County in the Borrower’s Province of Shanxi.

(f)

“Fiscal Year” means the twelve month period commencing January 1 and 

ending December 31 of a calendar year. 

(g)

“Resettlement Action Plan” means the resettlement action plan prepared by 

Tianjin Investigation and Design Institute and Shanxi Investigation and Design 
Institute and dated April 1, 1997, for the resettlement of persons displaced as a 
result of the Project, as a result of the construction of the Wanjiazhai Dam, and as a 
result of the implementation of the Complementary Investment Program, as the same may 
be amended from time to time. 

(h)

“Shanxi Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 

Shanxi of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Shanxi Project 
Agreement. 

(i)

“Shanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shanxi. 

(j)
this Agreement. 

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 

(k)

“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by Shanxi out of the 

proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project.

(l)

“Sub-project” means a specific project under Part B(5) of the Project to 

be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan. 

(m)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 

between Shanxi and YRDPC pursuant to Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Shanxi Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan 
provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 

“Taiyuan” means Taiyuan Municipality in Shanxi. 

(n)

(o)

Yellow River in Pianguan County in the Borrower’s Province of Shanxi. 

“Wanjiazhai Dam” means the dam and associated structures located on the 

(p)

“YRDPC” means the Shanxi Wanjiazhai Yellow River Diversion Project 

Corporation, a state-owned enterprise established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower and in accordance with (i) the YRDPC Charter and (ii) Business License No. 
11005348-2, dated September 18, 1995, issued by the Shanxi Provincial Administration 
of Industry and Commerce.

(q)

“YRDPC Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and YRDPC 

of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 

(r)

“YRDPC Charter” means the Articles of Association of YRDPC approved by 

Shanxi on September 6, 1995, as the same may be amended from time to time.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred million dollars ($400,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for (i) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts A, B(1), B(2), B(3) and B(4) of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by Shanxi 
on account of withdrawals made under Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Sub-projects in respect of which withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested. 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Shanxi to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Shanxi Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Shanxi therein, shall cause YRDPC to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the YRDPC Project Agreement all the obligations of 
YRDPC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 

to enable Shanxi and YRDPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Shanxi on 

the following principal terms:

repayable by 
over a period of 
five years;

(i)

the principal amount so made available shall be denominated and 
Shanxi in dollars and shall be recovered by the Borrower 

twenty years, inclusive of a grace period of 

above in 
remaining unrecovered from 
payable by the Borrower under the 
2.05 of this Agreement; and

(ii)

Shanxi shall pay interest on the principal amount referred to 

subparagraph (b)(i) of this Section withdrawn and 

time to time at a rate equal to the rate 

Loan pursuant to Section 

referred to above 
from time to time at a 
(0.75%) per annum.

(iii) Shanxi shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount 

in subparagraph (b)(i) of this Section not withdrawn 

rate equal to three fourths of one percent 

(c)

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Shanxi 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part B of 
the Project shall be carried out by Shanxi pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Shanxi 
Project Agreement; and (b) Part A of the Project shall be carried out by YRDPC 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the YRDPC Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(i) 

of this 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

Section and those for the Special Account for each 
accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

months after the end of each such year the report of 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

and 
to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

Shanxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

Shanxi Project Agreement or YRDPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the YRDPC Project Agreement.

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shanxi will be able to perform its obligations under the Shanxi Project Agreement 
or that YRDPC will be able to perform its obligations under the YRDPC Project 
Agreement. 

(c)

The YRDPC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of YRDPC to perform any 
of its obligations under the YRDPC Project Agreement. 

(d)

The Borrower or Shanxi or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 

have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of YRDPC or for the 
suspension of its operations.

(e)

The Cofinancing Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 

July 1, 1998 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.

(f)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 

the Borrower 
been suspended, 
to the terms of the 
Cofinancing Loan shall have become due 
maturity thereof.

to withdraw the proceeds of the Cofinancing Loan shall have 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
Cofinancing Loan Agreement; or (B) the 
and payable prior to the agreed 

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

establishes 
cancellation, 
the failure of the Borrower to 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.

termination or prematuring is not caused by 
perform any of its obligations 

for the Project are 

conditions 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

any of the events specified in Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; 

(b)

any of the events specified in Sections 5.01(c) and 5.01(d) of this 

Agreement shall occur; and 

(c)

the event specified in Section 5.01(f)(i)(B) of this Agreement shall 

occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01(f)(ii) of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of Shanxi and YRDPC.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 

meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Shanxi Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 

Shanxi and is legally binding upon Shanxi in accordance with its terms;

(b)

that the YRDPC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 

YRDPC and is legally binding upon YRDPC in accordance with its terms; and

(c)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by Shanxi and YRDPC and is legally binding upon Shanxi and YRDPC in accordance with 
its terms. 

Section 6.03. The date ninety days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 

specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address: 

Telex:

FINANMIN
Beijing

22486 MFPRC CN

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD

248423 (MCI) or

Washington, D.C.

 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

Authorized Representative

Acting Regional Vice President 

East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

(1)

Works:

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

for tunnels
and pump
caverns under
Part A of the
Project

for other
structures
under Part A of
the Project

Pipes for Part A
of the Project

Other goods for
Part A of the
Project

(2)

Goods

(c)

Goods for Parts
B(1) through B(4)
of the Project

(3)

Consultants’ services:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed 
  in Dollars)

     % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

217,300,000

70%

 33,200,000

60%

 23,000,000

50%

100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
75% of local expenditures
for other items procured 

    ) 

locally

 94,900,000) 
    ) 
    ) 
    ) 
    ) 
    ) 

    )
  1,600,000)
    )
    )

for Part A
of the Project

for Parts B(1)
through B(4)
of the Project

 15,400,000) 

    )
    )
  3,900,000)
    )
    )

100%

100%

(4)

Training:

for Part A
of the Project

for Parts B(1)
through B(4)
of the Project

(5)

Sub-loans

100% of payments
made by Shanxi

  1,700,000) 

    )
    )
  1,000,000)
    )
    )

  8,000,000

 __________

400,000,000
===========

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

TOTAL

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.
made:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 

Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $28,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 20, 1996; and

(b)

under Category (5) in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been 

made in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Shanxi Project 
Agreement, and of the Annex to said Schedule.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account for (a) expenditures for 

4.
works under contracts costing less than $10,000,000 equivalent (other than the first 
three contracts referred to in Section I, Part D.2(b) of Schedule 1 to the Shanxi 
Project Agreement), (b) expenditures for goods under contracts costing less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent (other than the first three contracts referred to in Section I, 
Part D.2(d) of Schedule 1 to the Shanxi Project Agreement), (c) expenditures for 
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent, (d) expenditures for consultants’ services under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, (e) 
expenditures for training and (f) payments under Sub-loans, to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in expanding the water 

supply in Taiyuan in a manner designed to ensure sustained economic growth in an 
environmentally sound manner and reduce poverty by increasing employment.

The Project, which is part of a phased program to expand Shanxi’s water supply, 
consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Yellow River Diversion

Construction of a system of tunnels, aqueduct pipelines and reservoirs designed 

to transport water from the Borrower’s Yellow River to Taiyuan, consisting of: 

(1)
and preparatory works for access roads;  

completion of a general main tunnel from the Wanjiazhai Dam to Xiatuzhai Village 

construction of a main tunnel leading south from the general main tunnel at 

(2)
Xiatuzhai Village, two pumping stations for said main tunnel leading south from said 
general main tunnel and three pumping stations for said general main tunnel, 
aqueducts, inverted siphons, culverts, power transmission lines and transformer 
stations; 

construction of connecting pipelines and tunnels from the Fen 1 Reservoir 

(3)
located along the Fen River in Xiajingyou Village to the Huyang treatment plant in 
Taiyuan; 

(4)

provision of pumps, motors, controls, valves, gates and communications systems; 

(5)
Parts A(1) through A(4) of this Schedule; and 

resettlement of persons displaced as a result of the activities referred to in 

(6)

implementation of an environmental management plan for the Project.

Part B:

Institutional Development; Water Resources Management 

Implementation of a program to strengthen the organization, operations and 

(1)
management of the entities involved in water resources supply and management in 
Shanxi, including corporatization and commercialization of said entities and 
rationalization of water supply prices and of markets within the water supply sector. 

Preparation of an environmental master plan for Taiyuan, including a wastewater 

(2)
management plan, and undertaking of studies to develop a wastewater discharge permit 
system and programs of pollution control and prevention. 

(3)
pollution permit system. 

Development and introduction of water and wastewater monitoring systems, and a 

Provision of training to improve the skills of staff of Shanxi’s Environmental 

(4)
Protection Bureau in pollution prevention, and establishment and operation of 
pollution permit systems and water and wastewater monitoring systems. 

Financing, through the provision of loans to key polluting enterprises, 

(5)
including, inter alia, enterprises producing steel, coal, coke, pharmaceuticals, 
paper, fertilizer and/or chemicals, of specific projects to introduce and apply 
environmentally sound technology in their operations.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

February 15, 2003
August 15, 2003
February 15, 2004

  Payment of Principal
 (Expressed in Dollars)*

8,490,000
8,740,000
8,995,000

August 15, 2004
February 15, 2005
August 15, 2005
February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017

9,260,000
9,535,000
9,815,000
      10,100,000
      10,400,000
      10,705,000
      11,020,000
      11,345,000
      11,675,000
                          12,020,000
                          12,375,000
                          12,735,000
                          13,110,000
                          13,495,000
                          13,895,000
                          14,300,000
                          14,725,000
                          15,155,000
                          15,600,000
                          16,060,000
                          16,530,000
                          17,020,000
                          17,520,000
                          18,035,000
                          18,565,000
                          19,110,000
                          19,670,000

_________________________

*
as 

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 

provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Implementation Program

A.

Wanjiazhai Dam Safety

In order to ensure the safety of the Wanjiazhai Dam and downstream life, 
property and activities, the Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Water Resources, 
take the following actions.

1.

Operation and Maintenance and Emergency Preparedness Plans

The Borrower shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 

and furnish to the Bank not later than December 31, 1998, a plan for the operation and 
maintenance of the Wanjiazhai Dam and an emergency preparedness plan for said dam, 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said 
plans, and thereafter implement the same with due diligence and efficiency, taking 
into account the views of the Bank on the matter.

2.

Periodic Inspections

The Borrower shall ensure that inspections of the Wanjiazhai Dam and of its 

operation and maintenance shall be undertaken, annually for the first five years 
following its completion, and thereafter, at intervals of not more than three years, 
all in accordance with sound engineering practices and on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, by qualified and experienced independent experts, in order to 
identify any deficiencies in the condition of the Wanjiazhai Dam or in the quality and 
adequacy of the maintenance or methods of operation of said dam or of its plan for 
emergency preparedness, which may endanger the safety of said dam or of downstream 
life, property or activities, and to rectify any such deficiencies promptly.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall employ not later than October 31, 1998, a panel of independent 
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be acceptable to 
the Bank, to be responsible for undertaking such periodic inspections of the 

Wanjiazhai Dam.  The Borrower shall ensure that said panel shall prepare and furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank, promptly upon completion of each said inspection, a 
report on the results of said inspection, together with any measures recommended to be 
taken to ensure the safety of the Wanjiazhai Dam and downstream life, property and 
activities.  The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on each report furnished by said panel and shall thereafter 
implement the measures recommended by said report, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter.

B.

Wanjiazhai Dam Resettlement

The Borrower shall take, and shall cause to be taken all measures necessary to 

1.
ensure that all persons displaced as a result of the construction of the Wanjiazhai 
Dam shall be resettled in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan so as to 
improve the living standards and productivity of all such persons.

The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 

2.
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank, the implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan and the achievement of 
its objectives.  The Borrower shall prepare, under guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank semiannual reports not later than April 15 and October 
15 of each Fiscal Year, integrating the results of said monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed during the preceding calendar semester and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the 
Resettlement Action Plan and achievement of its objectives during the following twelve 
month period, including any proposed revisions to said plan indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities.  The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on each said report and shall 
thereafter implement the recommendations and introduce the revisions proposed in said 
report, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.

To give effect to Sections 1 and 2 of this Part B, the Borrower shall employ, 

3.
not later than February 15, 1998, independent experts whose qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for 
monitoring and evaluating the impact of implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan 
on the socioeconomic development of persons displaced as a result of the construction 
of the Wanjiazhai Dam, and for preparation of the reports referred to above in Section 
2 of this Part B on said monitoring and evaluation activities.

SCHEDULE 5

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 

(5);

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 

$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $9,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of $100,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 

shown by said documents 

Special 

Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 

justified by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 

of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

