CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4230 HU

Loan Agreement

(Youth Training Project)

REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated October 29, 1997 

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4230 HU

AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 

Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

Section 6.03 is modified to read:

of the Borrower to make 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the 

“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 

Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) at any 

time, the Bank determines, after  consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 

situation, and establishes the amount of 

beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 

Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
determines, with respect to any contract 
corrupt 

(c) at any time, the Bank 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a 
or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (d) at any time,  the Bank determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Loan Agreement and  establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, 
an 
Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 

amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
received notice from the 

been eligible for 

the 

Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such  amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 

Borrower to make 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 

terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of 

the Federal Republic of Germany;

(b)

(c)

“MOL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor; 

“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit, established 

within MOL for the purpose of coordinating all activities in respect of 
the Project; and 

(d)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 

2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 

and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to sixty two million nine hundred thousand Deutsche Marks (DEM 
62,900,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 

Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 

Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 

maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of 
Hungary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such 

later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 

charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 

amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 

semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 

Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOL with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. The Adult Labor Market Training Department of MOL is to be 
responsible for technical implementation of Part A of the Project, and 
the Youth Training Department of MOL is to be responsible for technical 
implementation of Part B of the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 

this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 

Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
and furnish to Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan for sustaining the programs developed under the 
Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 

with the Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 

maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

have the records and accounts referred to in 

(i)
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 

with appropriate auditing principles 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 

case not later than six (6) 
of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 

months after the end 

of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 

reasonably requested; and

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 

said records and accounts and 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

the audit thereof as the 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:

with paragraph (a) of this 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 

Section, records and 

(ii)
received the audit report for 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

the fiscal year in 

records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 

evidencing such 

and other documents) 
expenditures;

records; and

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 

(iv)
the annual audit referred to 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 

ensure that such records and accounts are included in 

in paragraph (b) of this 

separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 

statements of expenditure 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 

submitted during such 

controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 

upon to support the related 

withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Deputy President or the General Manager of the 

National Bank of Hungary is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

National Bank of Hungary
Department for International
Development Institutions
H-1850 Budapest, Szabadsag ter 8-9
Republic of Hungary

Cable address: 

BANKO
Budapest

For the Bank:

Telex:

22-5755

International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Budapest, Republic of Hungary, as of the day 
and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

By /s/ Gyula Pulay

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Roger W. Grawe

Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

1.
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 

Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:

Categort

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Deutsche Mark)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

(1)

Consultants’ services
and training

   9,150,000

100%

(2)

Goods

  47,480,000

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally

(3)

Unallocated

TOTAL

   6,270,000

  62,900,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 

currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 

currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 

3.
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.

The Bank under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 

4.
by notice to the Borrower may require withdrawals from the Loan Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures under contracts 
for: (i) expenditures for goods costing less than $300,000 equivalent; 
(ii) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000; and (iii) 
services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to help adolescents and young 

adults to make the transition from school to work.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 

modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A:

Post Secondary, Job-Oriented Training

Provision of technical assistance, hardware and software to support 

1.
about 15 teams of experts established for the definition of occupational 
skills and knowledge, development of modular training curricula and 
specification of materials and equipment necessary to implement the 
curricula for about 85 occupational specialties.

2.
to support implementation of new and revised training curricula in 

Provision of technical assistance, equipment, hardware and software 

approximately 170 training institutions.

3.
directing and implementing modular training programs.

Provision of training for staff of training institutes involved in 

4.
software to strengthen PCU.

Provision of technical assistance, fellowships, equipment and 

Part B:   Secondary Vocational Orientation

Provision of hardware, training and technical assistance to assist 

1.
about 100 secondary vocational schools to implement new academic core 
curricula for grades 9 through 12 and about 35 secondary vocational 
schools in the implementation of new academic curricula for grades 11 and 
12.

Provision of computer hardware, software, training and technical 

2.
assistance to assist about 135 secondary vocational schools to implement 
an average of two vocational orientation curricula each in grades 11 and 
12.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions

A.

General Definitions

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the 

following meanings:

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest 

Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in such Interest Period.

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.

(c)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 

2.06 of this Agreement.

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in 
which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.

B.

Interest

The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed 

1.
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from 
time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate 
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described 
in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed 

2.
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall 
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until 

final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, 
at a rate equal to the applicable:

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
have the following meanings:

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms 

(a)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in Deutsche Marks for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first 
day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which 

each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 

Interest Period, below (or 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 

above) the London 

deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 

portions thereof 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 

allocated by the Bank to fund 

that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 

equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Deutsche Marks for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed 
Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed 
interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:

(i)

one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the 

Rate Fixing Date for such 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 

Disbursed Amount, below (or 

reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 

Bank’s outstanding 
allocated to fund single currency loans or portions 

borrowings or portions thereof 

thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus

Date for such Disbursed 

Amount;

(iii) the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 

as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 

4.
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.

5.

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its Borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ 
notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies 
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 

1.
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, the first such 
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each 
installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if 

2.
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2012, 
the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank 

3.
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such 
Disbursed Amount.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

Part A:

General

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 

Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 

1.
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 

2.
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.

(a)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 

Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.

(b)

Notification and Advertising

The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 

cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 

the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

Limited International Bidding

Contracts for application of software, customization of software 
and purchase of specialized hardware, which the Bank agrees can only be 
obtained from a limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $4,900,000 and regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.

2.

International Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, 

up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.

3.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 

up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.

4.

Direct Contracting

Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be 

compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000, may be procured, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 

or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 

equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b) 

With respect to each contract to be procured under the 
provisions of Part C.4 of Section I of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply:

(i) 
Borrower shall provide to the 
specifications and the draft contract; and

prior to the execution of any contract procured, the 

Bank a copy of the 

(f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Guidelines shall apply.

(ii)  in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 

Appendix 1 to the 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 

Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Procurement of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 

1.
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 

1.
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

Individual Consultants Services for the Project for tasks that meet 

1.
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 

the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of 

consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of 

individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 

Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain PCU 

1.
under the supervision of a suitably qualified director and procurement or 
financial officer and supported by support staff in adequate numbers.

2.
The Borrower shall ensure that training institutions included in, 
and programs supported under Parts A.2, B.1 and B.2 of the Project shall 
meet the criteria agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.

The Borrower shall assure that all training proposals to be 

3.
included under Part A.3 of the Project shall be submitted to the 
Borrower’s National Vocational Training Council for review and 
endorsement.

4.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 

monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 

and furnish to the Bank, on or about May 31, 1999, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by June 30,1999, or such later date as 

the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s view on the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) 

set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 

respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 

to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.

2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 

3.
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 

shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the 

Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall 

specify.

(ii)
Borrower shall furnish to the 
and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 

Bank the documents 

which replenishment is 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 

Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
requested. On the 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 

into the Special Account such 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 

amount as the Borrower 

the Special Account for 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 

documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
eligible expenditures. All 

Loan Account under the respective eligible 

Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other 

evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 

4.
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 

5.
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 

further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 

within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 

of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 

the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

6.
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or 
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise so agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(c)

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 

and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

