CONFORMED COPY  

LOAN NUMBER 4124 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Second National Highway Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated August 29, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4124 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B) the Project will be carried out by the Project Provinces (as defined in 
Section 1.02 (n) of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to each Project Province the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Project Provinces;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)
successor thereto;

“GPCD” means Guangdong Provincial Communication Department and any 

(b)

“Guangdong” means Guangdong Province, a political sub-division of the 

Borrower, and any successor thereto;

(c)

“Guangdong EAP” means the People’s Republic of China National Highway 
Project II: Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway Environmental Action Plan, dated July 1996, 
which sets out environmental protection measures as well as administrative and 
monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures;

(d)

“Guangdong Interconnecting Roads” means the roads to be constructed in 

Guangdong under Part A (1) (b) of the Project;

(e)

“Guangdong RAP” means the People’s Republic of China National Highway II 

Xiaotang-Gantang Resettlement Action Plan dated July 1996 which sets out the 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as 
monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan;

(f)

“Guangdong Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 

(b) (i) of this Agreement;

(g)

“HPCD” means Hunan Provincial Communication Department and any successor 

thereto;

(h)

“Hunan” means Hunan Province, a political sub-division of the Borrower, 

and any successor thereto;

(i)

“Hunan EAPs” means, collectively, (i) the China National Highway II 

Project: Hunan Highway Corridor Project, Xiangtan-Leiyang Project Environmental Action 
Plan (3rd Revised Version); (ii) the China National Highway II Project: Hunan 
Xiangtan-Leiyang Freeway, Zhuzhou-Xiangtan Connecting Road Environmental Action Plan 
(Revised Version); and (iii) the China National Highway II Project: Hunan 
Loudi-Lianyuan Class II Auto-only Highway Environmental Action Plan (2nd Revised 
Version), each dated May 1996, which set out environmental protection measures as well 
as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures, and “Hunan EAP” means any one of the Hunan EAPs;

(j)

“Hunan Interconnecting Roads” means the roads to be constructed in Hunan 

under Part B (1) (b) of the Project;

(k)

“Hunan RAP” means the Guangdong-Hunan Expressway Corridor Project: Hunan 
Section (National Highway II Project) Resettlement Action Plan (4th Revised Edition), 
and the Loudi-Lianyuan Highway Resettlement Action Plan, both dated May 1996, which 
set out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as 
well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans;

(l)

“Hunan Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 

(ii) of this Agreement;

(m)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 

Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

(n)

“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Guangdong and Hunan; and 

“Project Province” means either of the Project Provinces;

(o)

“Respective EAPs” means, in respect of: (i) Guangdong, the Guangdong EAP; 

and (ii) Hunan, the Hunan EAPs;

(p)

“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of: (i) Guangdong, 

Part A of the Project; and (ii) Hunan, Part B of the Project;

(q)

“Respective Proceeds of the Loan” means, in respect of: (i) Guangdong, 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 1; and (ii) Hunan, 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 2, as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(r)

“Respective RAP” means, in respect of: (i) Guangdong, the Guangdong RAP; 

and (ii) Hunan, the Hunan RAP;

(s)

“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Guangdong Special Account and 
the Hunan Special Account; “Special Account” means either of the Special Accounts; and 
“Respective Special Account” means, in respect of: (i) Guangdong, the Guangdong 
Special Account; and (ii) Hunan, the Hunan Special Account;

(t)

“Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway” means the highway between Xiangtan and 

Leiyang in Hunan to be constructed under Part B (1) (a) of the Project; and

(u)

“Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway” means the highway between Xiaotang and 

Gantang in Guangdong to be constructed under Part A (1) (a) of the Project.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred million dollars ($400,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

dollars the following two special deposit accounts, each in a bank acceptable to the 
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) one for purposes of Part A of 
the Project, and (ii) one for purposes of Part B of the Project. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 

the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 

date of this 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.

and after the initial period, 

Date to, but 

(ii)
of this Agreement.

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 

interbank offered 
value the first day of such Interest 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 

Period (or, in the case of 
Payment Date 

occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one-half 

of one percent 
average margin, for such Interest 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 

(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

Period, below (or above) 

rates, 

portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 

portions 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
annum.

thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 

expressed as a percentage per 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objections thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause each Project Province to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of such Project Province therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each 
Project Province to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its Respective 

Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:

(i)

the principal amount so made available shall be the amount 

withdrawn from the Loan 
Account, on account of the cost of 
required for such Project Province’s Respective Part of 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;

Account or paid out of the Respective Special 
goods, works and services 

the 

available to it over 
grace period of five (5) years; and

(ii)

each Project Province shall repay the principal amount so made 

a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a 

(iii) the Borrower shall charge each Project Province: (A) interest on 

the principal 
remaining unpaid from time to time at a 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and (B) a commitment charge on the 

amount so made available and withdrawn and 

rate equal to the rate of 
pursuant to 

principal amount so made available and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 

equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting practices, 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other 
retained until at least one year after 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Loan Account was made; and

documents) evidencing such expenditures are 

the Bank has received the audit 

withdrawal from the 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b) The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

this Section 
fiscal year audited, in 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Accounts for each 

accordance with appropriate 

independent 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
after the end of each such year the 

later than 6 months 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 

scope and in such 

submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 

internal 
upon to support the related 

controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 

withdrawals; and

and accounts and 
reasonably request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

Either Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its 

obligations under the Project Agreement.

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon such 
Project Province in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address: 

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in              to be
   Dollars)

% of
    Expenditures

     Financed

129,700,000
       Part A (1) of the Project             

(a)  Civil works under

     34%

(b)  Supply and installa-  39,300,000

            80%

Category

1.

Guangdong Province:

       tion of electronic, 
electric and
mechanical equipment
under Part A (1) of 
the Project

(c)  Goods under Part
A of the Project

  7,700,000

            100% of foreign

     expenditures,
     100% of local
                                       expenditures

     (ex-factory cost) 
     and 75% of local 
            expenditures for

                                       other items

            procured locally

(d)  Consultants’services   3,300,000

            100%

       and training under 

Part A
       of the Project

       Part A of the 
Project 

2.

 Hunan Province:

(e)  Unallocated for

 20,000,000

(a)  Civil works under     160,000,000

            48%

(b)  Supply and installa-    9,000,000

            80%

            100% of foreign
       of the Project                                       expenditures, 

(c)  Goods under Part B

  6,800,000

       Part B (1)
       the Project

       tion of electronic, 
electric and
mechanical equipment 
under Part B (1)
of the Project

local 
expenditures

local

            100% 

     (ex-factory cost) 

     and 75% of 

     expenditures for
     other items
     procured locally

(d)  Consultants’ services    3,600,000

     100%

       and training under
       Part B of the Project

(e)  Unallocated for 
       Part B of the Project

  20,000,000

  __________

       TOTAL                400,000,000
                     ===========

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals:

(a)

in an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,000,000 under Category 2 (a);

in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 under each of Categories 1 

in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 under each of Categories 

(b)
(c) and 2 (c); and

(c)
1 (d) and 2 (d);

may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
June 30, 1996.

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent;

works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent;

(a)

(b)

(c)

less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and

consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 

(d)

training;

all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the continuing development of 

road infrastructure in China; (b) to improve the economic integration between 
Guangdong and Hunan; (c) to strengthen the highway sector institutional capacity in 
Guangdong and Hunan; and (d) to improve the safety of road transport in Guangdong and 
Hunan.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.

Part A:

Guangdong Province 

(1)

Construction of Highways

(a)

Construction of a four-lane highway of about 109 kilometers (km) between 

Xiaotang and Gantang in Guangdong (the Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway), including the 
supply and installation of electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment for toll 
collections, traffic monitoring, telecommunications, tunnel ventilation and lighting, 
and the construction of administration and maintenance buildings and service 
facilities.

(b)

Construction and upgrading of about 2 km of interconnecting road sections 

for the Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway.

(c)

Provision of equipment and technical assistance for the control of 

construction quality and environmental monitoring during the construction phase of the 
Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway; and provision of equipment for the operation and 
maintenance thereof. 

(2)

Institutional Strengthening and Training

(a)

Carrying out of a study of the effects of expressway construction on 

transport and economic integration in the Changsha, Guangzhou, Hong Kong corridor and 
of their comparative impacts on different modes of transport.

(b)

Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the highway sector, 
specifically in the areas of highway operation, maintenance and finance, through the 
provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment. 

(3)

Program of Expressway Safety

Development and implementation of a program of safety for expressways consisting 

of the development of safety manuals, standards for road signs, markings and 
lightings, and procedures for traffic and accident management.

Part B:

Hunan Province 

(1)

Construction of Highways

(a)

Construction of a four-lane highway of about 169 km between Xiangtan and 

Leiyang in Hunan (the Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway), including the supply and 
installation of electronic, electrical and mechanical equipment for toll collections, 
traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting, and the construction of 
administration and maintenance buildings and service facilities.

(b)

Construction and upgrading of about 39 km of interconnecting roads for 

the Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway, including a four-lane Class I highway of about 16 km 
between Xiangtan and Zhuzhou in Hunan.

(c)
Lianyuan in Hunan.

Construction of a Class II highway of about 60 km between Loudi and 

(d)

Provision of equipment and technical assistance for the control of 

construction quality and environmental monitoring during the construction phase of the 
Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway, the Hunan Interconnecting Roads and the highway referred 
to in Part B(1)(c) of the Project; and provision of equipment for the operation and 
maintenance thereof and for the maintenance of the provincial road network.

(2)

Institutional Strengthening and Training

(a)

Carrying out of a study of the management of highway maintenance in order 

to review the institutional arrangements, policies and procedures required for 
effective highway maintenance and to develop recommendations for a multi-year highway 
maintenance program.

(b)

Carrying out of a study to analyze the longer-term options for the 

commercialization of expressways.  

(c)

Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the highway sector in 

the areas of highway planning, design, construction, operation, maintenance and 
finance, through the provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment.

(3)

Program of Road Safety

Implementation of a program of road safety consisting of the development of (a) 

an annual road safety seminar program; (b) a manual on safety at roadworks; (c) a 
safety audit manual; and (d) a system of analysis of selected accident black spots 
along National Route 107.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.

*    *    *    *    *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due 

July 15, 2002
January 15, 2003
July 15, 2003
January 15, 2004
July 15, 2004
January 15, 2005
July 15, 2005
January 15, 2006
July 15, 2006
January 15, 2007
July 15, 2007
January 15, 2008
July 15, 2008
January 15, 2009
July 15, 2009
January 15, 2010
July 15, 2010
January 15, 2011
July 15, 2011
January 15, 2012
July 15, 2012
January 15, 2013
July 15, 2013
January 15, 2014

 8,410,000
 8,660,000
 8,920,000
 9,185,000
 9,465,000
 9,745,000
10,040,000
10,340,000
10,650,000
10,970,000
11,300,000
11,640,000
11,985,000
12,345,000
12,715,000
13,100,000
13,490,000
13,895,000
14,315,000
14,745,000
15,185,000
15,640,000
16,110,000
16,595,000

July 15, 2014
January 15, 2015
July 15, 2015
January 15, 2016
July 15, 2016
January 15, 2017

_____________________

*
as provided in 

17,090,000
17,605,000
18,130,000
18,675,000
19,235,000
19,820,000

SCHEDULE 4

Special Accounts

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 

Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of: (i) the Guangdong 

Special Account, Category 1; and (ii) the Hunan Special Account, Category 2, set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of: (i) the Guangdong 
Special Account, an amount equal to $ 14,000,000, and (ii) the Hunan Special Account, 
an amount equal to $ 14,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
in the Respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, (x) the Authorized 
Allocation for the Guangdong Special Account shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$8,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals under Category 1 plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of Part A of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed $60,000,00, and (y) the Authorized Allocation for the Hunan Special 
Account shall be limited to an amount equal to $8,000,000, until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals under Category 2 plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered in
to by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of Part B 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed $60,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that either Special 

3.
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation in respect of 
such Special Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account 
shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 

requests for deposits into the Special 

specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 

Bank the documents and other evidence required 

Schedule for the payment or 

requested.  

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 

such 
shown by said 
out of the Special Account for 

amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of either Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into either Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for such Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories for the Part of the Project in respect of which such Special Account was 
established, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to such Part of 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation in respect of such Special Account.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for such Part of the Project shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.

6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of either 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into such Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in either Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in either Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

