CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4278-TUN

(Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 16, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4278-TUN

AGREEMENT, dated March 16, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Borrower) 

and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:

Section 6.03 is modified to read:

"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 

finance the Project’s costs to be 

withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
Borrower to make 
respect to any amount of  the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
satisfactory to 
expenditures in respect of 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 

contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 

the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 

such contract which would otherwise have been 

time, the Bank determines, 

financed out of the 

of the Loan, that 

the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 

the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 

unwithdrawn from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower,  terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon 
amount of the Loan shall be canceled."

the giving of such notice, such 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Accompanying Measures” mean the agreed policy and institutional measures 

set forth in a letter of even date herewith aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of 
the public investments under the Project to which they are linked;

(b)

“ANPE” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Environmental Protection 

(Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l’Environnement), established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988, and its implementation 
Decree No. 88-1784 dated October 18, 1988, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;

(c)

“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 

of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and the term “Categories” means more than one Category collectively;

(d)

“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;

(e)

“Coordinating Committee” means the Coordinating Committee (Comité de 

Coordination) referred to in Section A.I.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(f)

“CRDA” means a Regional Commissariat for Agriculture Development 

(Commissariat Régional au Développement Agricole), an administrative public 
institution (établissement public à caractère administratif) established and operated 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 89-44 dated March 8, 1989, and its related 
implementing decrees;

(g)

“DGFE” means the General Directorate of Finance and Incentives (Direction 

Générale du Financement et des Encouragements) within the MOA (as hereinafter 
defined);

(h)

“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;

(i)
of France;

“French Franc” and “FRF” means each the lawful currency of the Republic 

(j)

“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture (Ministère de 

l’Agriculture), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 87-779 
dated May 21, 1987, as amended by the Decree No. 88-1101 dated June 9, 1988, and as it 
may be further amended from time to time;

(k)

“Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators set 

forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized under the Project to measure 
the progress in the carrying out of the Project and the degree to which the Project 
objectives are being achieved; and

(l)
this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred forty-six million six hundred thousand French Francs (FRF246,600,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

French Francs a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to PIBOR Base Rate plus PIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “PIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the Paris 

rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for 

interbank offered 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“PIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 

Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

loans 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the PIBOR Base Rate and the PIBOR 

Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 

15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, agriculture, engineering, environmental, financial, 
technical and water conservation practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 

and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 

Section, 
Year audited, in 
principles consistently applied, by 
acceptable to the Bank;

including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 

accordance with appropriate auditing 

independent auditors 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such Year, the 

later than six 
report of such audit by said 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

auditors, of such scope and in such 

requested; and

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 

the audit 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures;

report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 

was made, all records (contracts, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
Year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 

of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia

Cable address: 

Telex:

18060

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Christian Delvoie 

Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

(1)

Civil Works

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
French Francs)

 199,620,000

(2)

Goods

  45,800,000

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost), and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally

(3)

Consultants’ Services
and Training

   1,180,000

TOTAL

 246,600,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

(b)

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts costing $1,000,000 
equivalent or less each, excluding those subject to prior review in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1(ii) of Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iii) 
services of consulting firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (iv) services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (v) training, under contracts costing less than 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to increase rural 
incomes through sustainable use of water resources and effective development, delivery 
and adoption of improved farming practices, and to attain enhanced institutional 
responsiveness to user demand for agricultural research, extension and training.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Carrying out of activities falling under the MOA’s sector investment program, 

identified as strategic priorities over the next years by the Borrower’s Ninth 
Development (1997-2001), and selected among the following areas in accordance with 
suitable policies, criteria and procedures and taking into consideration the progress 
achieved under the related Accompanying Measures:

A.
Irrigation development through the creation and extension of small, 
tubewell-based irrigation peariameters and the modernization, including drainage 
installation, of existing ones. 

B.
Groundwater prospecting by way of construction of exploratory wells, and 
provision of one (1) geophysical resistivity unit for exploration well sitting and one 
(1) video device to diagnose submerged equipment conditions in existing exploitation 
wells.

Groundwater monitoring comprising installation of piezometers and scientific 

C.
equipment to automatically record piezometer data, particularly in areas greatly 
affected by groundwater overdraft or saline intrusion, and in locations programmed for 
experimental recharge projects.

Agricultural research and the carrying out of studies required to implement 

D.
research subprojects and priority research activities in animal health and 
biotechnology, including provision of civil works and equipment required therefor, and 
the strengthening and equipping of pole stations with a view to consolidate research 
regionalization.

Agricultural training through the rehabilitation of seven (7) existing training 

E.
centers, including their physical renovation, modernization of the teaching plots, 
provision of equipment for workshops and the vehicles required to transport students 
and farmers for field visits, and upgrading of the central training unit at Sidi 
Thabet, encompassing the construction of a documentation center, the modernization of 
ˇconference rooms, and the provision of audio-visual and computer equipment and 

vehicles necessary for field visits.

F.
mobilize extension agents in eight of the Borrower’s governorates.

Agricultural extension through the provision of training and vehicles needed to 

Part B:

Institutional Capacity Building for Water User Associations

Carrying out of an institutional program to provide training to the regional 

units of the CRDAs responsible for providing training and advice to Water User 
Associations and implementation of a baseline diagnosis thereof, through the 
establishment, during a three-year period, of a mobile interdisciplinary team 
specializing in organizational management, budgeting, irrigation systems management, 
and irrigation economics, and the provision of vehicles and laptop computers as 
required therefor.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

On each April 15 and October 15

       Payment of Principal 

(Expressed in French Francs)*

beginning October 15, 2003
through April 15, 2015

10,275,000

_________________________

*
except as 

The figures in this column represent the amount in French Francs to be repaid, 

provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 

1.
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:

The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 

(a)

Grouping of contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $________________ equivalent or more each. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods

(b)

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 

2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

(c)

Dispute Review Board Each contract for works estimated to cost 

$50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board 
set forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of 
the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

(i) Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $26,300,000 equivalent; and (ii) works estimated to 
cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $6755,3100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.

International Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.

National Shopping

4.

Direct Contracting

Goods and works for electrification of irrigation pumping stations under Part A 

of the Project which are of a proprietary nature and can only be procured from one 
supplier, and costing $1,0200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured from the Société Tunisienne de l’Electricité et du 
Gaz in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Prior Review

With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works awarded in accordance 

with the provisions of Part B of this Section; (ii) each of the firsttwo (2) two (2) 

contracts for works for irrigation perimeters development under Part A of the Project 
and for groundwater prospecting and monitoring under, respectively, Parts B and C of 
the Project; and (iii) each contract for works awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section and estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $1,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 

2.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the mobile interdisciplinary team 
required under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Selection Under a Fixed Budget

Services for research subproject studies and surveys under Part D of the Project 

may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.

Least-cost Selection

Services for technical design studies under Part D of the Project estimated to 

cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.

3.

Individual Consultants

Services for Part D of the Project and that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 

be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

under Parts A.4 and B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $1200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

under Parts A.4, A.5 and B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(c)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Section A:

Institutional Arrangements

I.

Overall Project Implementation and Oversight

1.
The Borrower shall ensure overall Project coordination among the executing units 
through the DGFE and the Coordinating Committee.  To that end, the Borrower shall: (i) 
not later than April 1, 1998, establish, or cause to be established, within the MOA, 
the Coordinating Committee, headed by the Minister of Agriculture and under 
institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, to coordinate and oversee Project 
progress; and (ii) thereafter, maintain, or cause to be maintained, the Coordinating 
Committee throughout Project implementation.

Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph 1, the DGFE 

2.
shall have additional specific responsibility for overall preparation of budget 
proposals on behalf of the MOA, monitoring of financial and physical progress of the 
Project, progress evaluation of the achievement of the Accompanying Measures, 
coordination of disbursements and audit activities, and preparation of the progress 
and mid-term review reports referred to in Sections C and D of this Schedule.

II.

Specific Institutional Intervention

Implementation responsibilities shall be allocated as follows: (i) the General 

Directorate of Rural Engineering (Direction Générale du Génie Rural) shall execute 
Parts A and B of the Project; (ii) the General Directorate of Water Resources 
(Direction Générale des Ressources en Eau) shall carry out Parts B and C of the 
Project; (iii) the Institute of Agriculture Research and Education (Institution de la 
Recherche et de l’Enseignement Supérieur Agricoles) shall execute Part D of the 
Project; (iv) the Agricultural Extension and Training Agency (Agence de la 
Vulgarisation et de la Formation Agricoles) shall be attributed responsibility for 
Parts E and F of the Project; and (v) the CRDA located in the Borrower’s governorate 
where the Project activity is being implemented shall be responsible for liaising with 
the DGFE, overseeing technical preparation of the specific investment proposal to be 
submitted to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section B.I (a) (ii) of this 
Schedule, and assuring coordination across technical units at the local level, with 
all of the aforementioned executing agencies reporting directly to the DGFE.

Section B:

Agriculture Investment Program

I.

Approval of Investment Activities

(a)

The Borrower, through the DGFE, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank: 

(i) not later than September 30, 1998, for its review and comments, the Borrower’s 
proposed agriculture sector investment program for Fiscal Year 1999, along with the 
financing plan therefor; and (ii) not later than October 31, 1998, for its review and 
approval, a detailed description of activities proposed thereunder to be financed 
under the Project, including: (A) a technical and economic evaluation of the 
activities prepared in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (B) the required environmental assessment reports and/or mitigation plans 
approved by the ANPE. and (B) the required environmental assessment reports and 
mitigation plans approved by the ANPE and satisfactory to the Bank. 

(b)

Thereafter, the Borrower shall finalize the agriculture investment 
program taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon and shall take all 
measures necessary to ensure its efficient implementation.

II.

Accompanying Measures

(a)

The Borrower shall carry out, or caused to be carried out, the 

Accompanying Measures with due diligence and efficiency and at all times shall take 
all action required to achieve the objectives thereof.

(b)

Without prejudice to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, if 
the Bank shall have reasonably considered as unsatisfactory the progress made by the 
Borrower in carrying out the Accompanying Measures, the Bank may withhold further 
approval of commitments under the Project or any part thereof for Fiscal Year 1999 
onwards.  Such withholding may continue until the Borrower shall have taken, or shall 
have caused to be taken, remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary to achieve the objectives of the Project and ensure the successful 
achievement of the Accompanying Measures.

Section C:

Project Monitoring

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 

Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than March 31 and September 30 in each 
Fiscal Year, commencing on September 30, 1998 and until Project completion, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank for its review a progress report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators and the parameters set forth by the Accompanying Measures, the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project during the 
preceding six (6) months.

Section D:

Mid-Term Review

The Borrower shall, through the MOA:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the Accompanying Measures and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the 
Accompanying Measures during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the Accompanying Measures and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by October 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 

shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 

Project and the Accompanying Measures and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to FRF23,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
FRF17,600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed FRF70,500,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

