CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4362 RO

Loan Agreement

 (Child Welfare Reform Project)

between

ROMANIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated July 15, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4362 RO

AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1998, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 

BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

(B)

the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; and

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

In Section 9.07, subparagraph (c) is modified to read: “(c) Not later 

than six (6)  months prior to the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and 
this purpose 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
furnish to the Bank a 
shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be  derived from it, the performance 

by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

obligations under 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“DCP” means the Borrower’s Department for Child Protection, established 

and operating pursuant to Governmental Decision No. 16 of January 31, 1997, and to 
Governmental Emergency Ordinance No. 26 of June 12, 1997, as approved and modified by 
Law No. 108 of June 2, 1998; 

(b)

“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 

6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 

(c)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

this Agreement; and 

(i) of the Project.   

(d)

“Sub-Project” means a project to be carried out under Part A or Part B 

ARTICLE II

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter and, after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the 

Date. 

of this 

Agreement. 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank 
value the first day of such 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 

of one 
weighted average margin, for 
the London interbank offered rates, or 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan, as 

such Interest Period, below (or above) 
other reference rates, for 

percent (1/2 of 1%); and (B) minus (or plus) the 

outstanding 

reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and 

December  15 in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through DCP as the executing agency, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate child welfare, engineering, financial 
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through DCP, shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through DCP, shall establish, not later than 
October 31, 1998, and thereafter maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
carrying out of the Project.

(b) 

The Borrower, through DCP, shall: 

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 

paragraph 
Special Account, for 
auditing standards acceptable to 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 

the Bank consistently applied, by 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 

later than six 
certified copies of the 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 

financial statements referred to in 

year so audited; and (B) 

accounts and a 

and 
auditors, as the Bank 
request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 

accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 

shall from time to time reasonably 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
DCP, shall: 

(a) of this 
expenditures; 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 

audit report 
Loan Account was 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures; 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 

made, all records (contracts, orders, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
and internal controls involved in 
support the related 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the statements of 
year, together with the procedures 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
withdrawals.

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Project Implementation 
Manual shall have been amended, waived or repealed without the prior consent of the 
Bank.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank  

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 

(a)
Bank; and 

DCP has finalized the Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the 

(b)

DCP has appointed a Project management consultant, an accounting 

consultant and a procurement consultant, with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 

Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania

Telex:

11239

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

ROMANIA

By /s/ Daniel Daianu 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Johannes Linn Regional 

Vice President 

Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

(1)

(2)

Works

Goods

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
   Dollars)

3,200,000

  900,000

% of

  Expenditures
to be Financed

80% 

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

  400,000

100% 

(3)

Consultants’ Services,
Training and Public 
Awareness

(4)

Unallocated

TOTAL

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

  500,000

5,000,000
=========

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $300,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after March 16, 1998; and (b) unless the Sub-project in respect 
of which disbursement is sought has been approved by the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods; (c) training and public awareness; and 
(d) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 each and for the employment of 
consulting firms and contracts costing less than $50,000 each for the employment of 
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to improve the welfare of children in Romania by 
testing and promoting: (i) community-based child welfare approaches as sustainable and 
cost-effective alternatives to institutionalized child care; and (ii) approaches to 
reintegrate street children into society.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Community-based Child Welfare Services 

Provision of works, goods, training and consultants’ services to support the 

Borrower in identifying, financing and monitoring Sub-Projects aimed at the prevention 
of abandonment and institutionalization of children, the de-institutionalization of 
children, and the improvement of the quality of residential care, through alternative 
community-based services.

Part B:

Street Children Initiative 

Provision of works, goods, training and consultants’ services to support the 

(i)
Borrower in identifying, financing and monitoring Sub-Projects aimed at the reduction 
of the number of street children, within the territory of the Municipality of 
Bucharest, through family and social reintegration, and the provision of shelters, 
learning and educational facilities, counseling and legal advice, medical assistance, 
and other services for street children. 

Provision of works, goods, training and consultants’ services to support the 
(ii)
Borrower in establishing, in different parts of the Borrower’s territory, up to six 
centers for coordination and information on street children.

Part C:

Institution Building, Training, Public Awareness, Monitoring and 

Evaluation 

Provision of consultants’ services to strengthen the capacity of DCP to oversee 

(i)
the execution of the Project, including the monitoring and evaluation of Project 
activities. 

(ii)
including  study tours in Romania and abroad. 

Training of DCP staff, and operational staff of the local administrations, 

(iii) Preparation and implementation of a campaign through newspapers, radio and 
television to increase public awareness of the need to prevent child abandonment and 
to encourage families to seek support and alternative services rather than abandon 
children in institutions. 

(iv)
management information system in DCP. 

Monitoring and evaluation of Project activities through the establishment of a 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

December 15, 2003
June 15, 2004
December 15, 2004
June 15, 2005
December 15, 2005
June 15, 2006
December 15, 2006

Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in  

             Dollars)* 

105,000
110,000
110,000
115,000
120,000
120,000
125,000

June 15, 2007
December 15, 2007
June 15, 2008
December 15, 2008
June 15, 2009
December 15, 2009
June 15, 2010
December 15, 2010
June 15, 2011
December 15, 2011
June 15, 2012
December 15, 2012
June 15, 2013
December 15, 2013
June 15, 2014
December 15, 2014
June 15, 2015
December 15, 2015
June 15, 2016
December 15, 2016
June 15, 2017
December 15, 2017
June 15, 2018

______________________

130,000
135,000
140,000
140,000
145,000
150,000
155,000
160,000
165,000
170,000
175,000
180,000
185,000
190,000
195,000
200,000
205,000
215,000
220,000
225,000
230,000
240,000
245,000

* 
as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

SCHEDULE 4 

Procurement and Consultants’ Services 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General 

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 

of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
2.
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures 

1.

International Shopping 

Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $390,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

2.

National Shopping 

Goods estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $840,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 

of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 

3.

Procurement of Small Works 

Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $4,400,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

1.

Procurement Planning 

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the 

provisions of Section I, Part B of this Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.3 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.

(b)

With respect to: (i) the first contract awarded in accordance with the 

provisions of Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first contract 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.2 of this Schedule, the 
following procedures shall apply:

the Borrower 
evaluation of 

(i)

prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 

shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 

quotations received;  

procedures, the 
draft contract; and 

(ii)

prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 

Appendix 1 to the 

Guidelines shall apply.

(iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Least-cost Selection

Services for auditing and social assessment may be procured under contracts 

awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 

2.

Single Source Selection

Services for Project management and child welfare may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 

3.

Individual Consultants

Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 

Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 

1.

Selection Planning 

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 

SCHEDULE 5 

Implementation Program 

1.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain DCP 
with an appropriate number of staff, adequate facilities, and authority satisfactory 
to the Bank.  

2.
provisions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 

The Borrower, through DCP, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 

Not later than November 30, 1998, DCP shall appoint a monitoring and evaluation 

3.
specialist, and a construction engineer, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  

4.
follow the selection procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank.

With respect to the selection of Sub-Projects, the Borrower, through DCP, shall 

5.

The Borrower, through DCP, shall: 

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, on or about April 30 and October 31 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 

(c)

review with the Bank, by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or such 

later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $500,000 to be 

withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $500,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
6.
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

