CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4325-CHA

Loan Agreement

(Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated  July 31, 1998

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4325-CHA

AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement of even date herewith (the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement) 
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association), 
acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (the Interim 
Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the Association 
adopted on June 26, 1996, and  amended as of December 31, 1997, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 

financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Interim Fund 
Development Credit  Agreement the Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to seventy four million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 74,300,000) (the Interim Fund Credit);

(C)

the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 

proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect 
of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this 
Agreement are made;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term  
“Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement for the Project of 
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (acting as administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association adopted on June 26, 1996, and amended as of December 31, 1997), as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the “General 
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated 
January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2,  1997), as applied to such agreement, 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000).

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement for:

(a)

expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect 

of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan;

(b)

amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made by TVEs under TVE Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the TVE Sub-project in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested; and

(c)   amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 

withdrawals made by Rural Marketing Groups under Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loans to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Marketing Sub-project 
in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January  1, 2006 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 

date of this 
Payment Date occurring 
period, each period from and including an 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 

thereafter, and after the initial 

Interest Payment 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank 
for value the first day of such 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
Interest Period (or, in the case 

Interest Payment 

percentage per annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 

of one 
weighted average margin, for such 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 

Interest Period, below (or 

reference 

percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 

borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

reasonably 
percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 

15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (e) of this Section, Sections 2.02 (b), 

3.01, 3.03, 3.04 and 4.01 of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and 
Schedules 1, 2, 3, 4 (with the exception of Part D thereof) and 5 thereto are 
incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications in said Sections 
and in Schedule 2 and 4 unless the context otherwise requires:

(i)

the term “Administrator” shall be read as “Bank”;

shall be read 
and

(ii)

the term “Interim Fund Credit” and "Interim Fund Credit Account" 

as "Loan" and "Loan Account", respectively; 

Development 

Credit Agreement".

(iii) the term “this Agreement” shall be read as "the Interim Fund 

(b)

The Borrower shall make available to each of the Project Provinces the 

portion of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the cost of goods, works and 
services required for its activities under the Project and to be financed under the 
Loan, on the following terms and conditions:

(i)    repayment over a period of 16 years, including seven years of 

grace;

over the 
Province; and

(ii)   foreign exchange risk between Dollars and the Borrower’s currency 

repayment period to be borne by such Project 

on terms 
to Article II of this 

(iii)  payment by the Project Province of interest and commitment charges 
equivalent to those payable by the Borrower pursuant 

Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to ensure that the 

proceeds of the Loan used to finance goods and services made available to final 
beneficiaries, with the exception of such proceeds corresponding to Part C.4 and Part 
D of the Project, shall be onlent to the final beneficiaries on the following terms 
and conditions:

(i)

the repayment period, grace period and provision for payment of 

interest 
terms and conditions set out in 
of this Section, provided that the relevant 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon alternative 
arrangements with respect to onlending for specified purposes, based on the 

charges and commitment charges shall be on the 
paragraphs (b) (i) and (b) (iii) 

Project Province, 

requirements of specific project activities under Part A or Part B of the 

Project;

(ii)

based on an evaluation of the capacity of such beneficiaries to 

bear such 
two percent per annum may be 
Province for any funds so onlent in the Borrower’s 
currency;

risk, an exchange rate risk fee not to exceed 

charged by such Project 

(iii)  based on an evaluation of the capacity of such beneficiaries to 

bear such 
one percent may be charged by 
blended funds onlent together with the proceeds 
Interim Fund Credit; and

risk, an interest rate risk fee not to exceed 

such Project Province for any 

of the 

(iv)

the final beneficiaries shall not pay interest accrued during the 

Project 
corresponding to such accrued interest 
principal amount repayable by the final beneficiaries.

implementation period, but an amount 

shall be added to the 

(d) 

The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to ensure that the 

proceeds of the Loan corresponding to Parts C.4 and D of the Project shall be onlent 
to the final beneficiaries on the same terms and conditions with respect to interest 
rates, maturity periods, and grace periods as those applicable to loans for similar 
goods and works made by the Agricultural Development Bank of China.

(e)

So long as any part of the Interim Fund Credit provided for under the 

Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the 
Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:

(i)

all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Administrator 
any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Interim 
Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of 

pursuant to 
Fund Development Credit 
this Section, as well as pursuant to 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, shall be 
taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the 
Administrator and the Bank; and

Section 2.02 (a) of the 

deemed to be 

(ii)

all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 

such Sections of the 
Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be deemed 
furnished to both the Administrator and the Bank. 

Administrator pursuant to the provisions of any of 

Interim Fund Development Credit 

to be 

ARTICLE IV

Remedies of the Bank

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the Project Provinces 
shall have failed to perform  any of its obligations under its respective 
Implementation Arrangement.

Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)  days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement. 

Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Section 5.03.  If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates prior 

to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
between the Borrower and the Bank. 

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address: 

FINANMIN
Beijing

For the Bank:

International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

22486 MFPRC CN

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

Telex:

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/  Liu Xiaoming

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/  Jane Loos

SCHEDULE 1

Amortization Schedule

Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific

 Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)*

4,285,000 
4,410,000 
4,540,000 
4,675,000 
4,815,000 
4,960,000 
5,105,000 
5,255,000 
5,415,000 
5,575,000 
5,740,000 
5,910,000 
6,085,000 
6,265,000 
6,450,000 
6,640,000 
6,840,000 
7,035,000

Date Payment Due

October 15, 2005
April 15, 2006
October 15, 2006
April 15, 2007
October 15, 2007
April 15, 2008
October 15, 2008
April 15, 2009
October 15, 2009
April 15, 2010
October 15, 2010
April 15, 2011
October 15, 2011
April 15, 2012
October 15, 2012
April 15, 2013
October 15, 2013
April 15, 2014

_____________________________ 

*
as provided 

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 

