CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4421 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Anhui Provincial Highway Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 11, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4421 CHA 

AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Anhui Province (Anhui) with the 

Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Anhui the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Anhui;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 

through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Affected Persons” means persons who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have their:  (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land)  or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons. 

(b)

(c)

“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Anhui Province, and any successor thereto. 

of the Anhui Provincial Government, and any successor thereto. 

“APCD” means the Anhui Provincial Communications Department, a department 

(d)

“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 

1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

(e)

“Expressway EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan dated June 1998, 
referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said Plan.

(f)

“Expressway RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated May 1998 in 

respect of Part A.1 (d) of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said Plan. 

(g)

“Hefei-Anqing Expressway” means the road from Hefei to Anqing in Anhui to 

be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project.  

(h)

“Highways” means the roads in Luan, Shouxian, Nanzhao, Chaolu, Xiaohuai 

and Yangtao in Anhui to be improved or rehabilitated under Part A.2 of the Project.

(i)

“Highway Maintenance EAPs” means, collectively, the Environmental Action 
Plans dated June 1998 in respect of the highways to be improved or rehabilitated under 
Part A.2 of the Project, which set out environmental protection measures in respect of 
Part A.2 of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said Plans; and “Highway Maintenance EAP” means any one 
of the Highway Maintenance EAPs. 

(j)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Anhui of 

even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 

(k)
this Agreement. 

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 

special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 

percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 

date of this 
Payment Date occurring 
period, each period from and including an 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 

thereafter, and after the initial 

Interest Payment 

Date. 

of this 

Agreement. 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank 
for value the first day of such 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 
Interest Period (or, in the case 

Interest Payment 

percentage per annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 

three-fourths of one 
the weighted average margin, for such 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
Interest Period, below (or 

reference 

borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

reasonably 
percentage per annum. 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable on February 15 and 

August 15 in each year. 

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Anhui to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Anhui therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Anhui to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make available to Anhui the proceeds of the Loan on 

the following principal terms: 

(i)

the principal amount so made available shall be the amount 

Loan Account or paid out from the Special 

withdrawn from the 
Account, on account of the cost of 
required for the Project and of the fee referred to 
2.04 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; 

goods, works and services 

in Section 

over a period 
period of five (5) years; and

(ii)

Anhui shall repay the principal amount so made available to it 
of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 

(iii) the Borrower shall charge: (A) interest on the principal amount so 

made 
from time to time at a rate 
applicable from time to time to the Loan 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (B) a commitment charge on the 

available and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered 
equal to the rate of interest 

pursuant to 

principal amount so made available not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 

equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Anhui 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 

accounting 
such expenditures; 

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
are retained until at least one 

other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
year after the Bank has received 

the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
from the Loan Account was made; and 

the last withdrawal 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall: 

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 

with appropriate auditing 

this Section 
year audited, in accordance 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

months after the end of each such year the 

later than six 
report of such audit by said 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 

auditors, of such scope 
requested, 

statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 

procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 

can be relied 

upon to support the related withdrawals; and 

and 
time to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 

request. 

ARTICLE V 

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified: 

(a)

Anhui shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

Project Agreement. 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Anhui will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 

ARTICLE VI 

Effective Date; Termination 

Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Anhui, and is legally binding upon Anhui in accordance 
with its terms.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People’s Republic of China 

For the Bank:

Cable address: 

Telex:

FINANMIN
Beijing

22486 MFPRC CN

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Li Zhaoxing

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1 

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
  Dollars)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

 

Category

(1)   Works 

(a)

under Part A.1(a)

116,700,000

48%

(3)  Goods

         7,800,000

100% of foreign                  

expenditures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

              100% of local

expenditures (ex-factory                               
cost) and 75% of local 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally

of the Project

(b)
of the Project

under Part A.1(b)

  1,400,000

(c)
of the Project

under Part A.2

 20,200,000

(d)

under Part B 

  1,400,000

       of the Project

(2)

Supply and installation
of equipment under 
Part A.1 (c) of the 
Project

 12,000,000

30%

40%

50%

80%

(4)

Consultants’
services and training

         4,900,000

100%

(5)

Fee

  2,000,000

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

(6)

Unallocated

TOTAL

 33,600,000
 __________
200,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $19,000,000, $500,000 and $500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (3) 
and (4) respectively set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1998; and (b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (c) for the rehabilitation of a 
provincial highway under Part A.2 of the Project unless Anhui shall have carried out 
such resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons, if any, in connection with 
said highway as required pursuant to paragraph A.2(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

(a)

(b)

(c)

goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent; 

works under contracts costing less than $4,000,000 equivalent;

consultants’ services under contracts awarded to: (i) consulting firms 

costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (ii) individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d)
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

training; all under such terms and 

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Province of Anhui to: 

(a) relieve traffic congestion and improve mobility and integration of interprovincial 
trade, commerce and tourism; (b) improve and rehabilitate the existing national and 
principal highways; (c) improve the safety of road transport; and (d) strengthen 
highway sector institutional capacity, all in Anhui.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:

Part A:

Highway Construction, Rehabilitation and Improvement  

(a)

Construction of a high-grade highway of about 152 kilometers (km) between 

1.
Hefei and Anqing in Anhui, divided into two sections, one of about 126 km between 
Hefei and Gaohebu and another of about 26 km between Gaohebu and Anqing, including 
construction of interchanges; (b) construction of toll stations and auxiliary service 
and office buildings along said highway; (c) supply and installation of electrical, 
electronic and mechanical equipment for toll collection, monitoring, 
telecommunications and lighting systems; and (d) resettlement and rehabilitation of 
Affected Persons with respect to said highway. 

Improvement and rehabilitation of about 240 km of provincial highways in the 

2.
areas of Luan, Shouxian, Nanzhao, Chaolu, Xiaohuai and Yangtao in Anhui, and 
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons with respect to said provincial 
highways.

Part B:

Highway Safety  

Carrying out of a program of improvement in highway safety in Anhui consisting 

of a study on highway traffic accidents and a pilot program for improvement of 
accident black spots.

Part C:

Institutional Strengthening 

Strengthening the institutional capacity of Anhui Provincial Communications 

1.
Department and affiliated institutions in the areas of highway planning, design, 
construction management and supervision, operation and maintenance; traffic safety; 
financial planning; project implementation management; and environmental protection 
and monitoring; through the provision of training, equipment and consultants’ 
services. 

Carrying out of a study with a view to formulate recommendations for the 

2.
improvement of the planning, financing, management and operation of expressways and 
other toll highways in Anhui.

The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2004.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

August 15, 2004
February 15, 2005
August 15, 2005

 Payment of Principal 
(expressed in Dollars)*

4,205,000 
4,335,000 
4,465,000 

February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
February 15, 2018
August 15, 2018
February 15, 2019

4,595,000 
4,735,000 
4,875,000 
5,020,000 
5,175,000 
5,330,000 
5,485,000 
5,650,000 
5,820,000 
5,995,000 
6,175,000 
6,360,000 
6,550,000 
6,745,000 
6,950,000 
7,155,000 
7,370,000 
7,590,000 
7,820,000 
8,055,000 
8,295,000 
8,545,000 
8,800,000 
9,060,000 
9,335,000 
9,615,000 
9,895,000

_____________________________

*
as provided 

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $15,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$10,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$50,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation for said 
Special Account.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf 

of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
Account at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special 

Bank shall specify. 

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 

furnish to 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 

this Schedule for the payment or 

requested. On the 

such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
Bank from the Loan 

shown 
of the Special 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

the 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

