CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4518 TU

(Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan)

Loan Agreement

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 23, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4518 TU 

AGREEMENT, dated November 23, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) 

and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 

of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions 

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

(a)

(b)

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 

“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of the Borrower; 

3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 

“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 

(c)

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 

Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 

(d)
this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred fifty two million five hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($252,530,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 

percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III 

Execution of the Project 

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 

Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and for the purpose of carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall enter 
into an agreement (the Implementation Agreement) with the Central Bank under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 

(b)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement 

in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, on or about January 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and  

(c)

review with the Bank, by February 15, 2000, or such later date as the 

Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s view on the matter.

Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan. 

Section 3.06. With respect to the goods under the category of eligible imports 
listed in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall not use or 
permit to be used any such goods for military purposes.

ARTICLE IV 

Financial Covenants 

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Central Bank to 

maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Central Bank to: 

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 

(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 

paragraph 
Special Account for 
auditing standards acceptable to 
independent auditors acceptable to the 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 

the Bank, consistently applied, by 

Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 

later than six 
certified copies of the 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 

financial statements referred to in 

year as so audited; and 

accounts and 
detail 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 

and 
auditors, as the Bank may 

accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 

from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 

(a) of this 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 

the audit 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
expenditures; 

report for the fiscal year in which the last 

was made, all records (contracts, 

documents) evidencing such 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the Project 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

Management Reports or statements of 

year, together with the 

preparation, 

Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 

Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 15, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 

(i) 

(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 

Project, both 
report, and projected sources 
Project for the four-month period following 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
and applications of funds for the 

the period covered by said 
financed out of the 
report 

Loan during the four-month period following the period covered by said report; 

(ii)

(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 

and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 

the actual and previously forecast implementation 

cumulatively 
variances between 
targets; and

(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 

expenditures under 
as at the end of the 

contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 

period covered by said report. 

(b)

Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination 

Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Implementation Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and the Central Bank. 

Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Implementation Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Central Bank and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Central Bank in accordance with its terms.

Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Basbakanlik  Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari Emek - Ankara 
Republic of Turkey

Cable address: 

MALIYE
Hazine, Ankara

Telex:

821-42285 
(MLYE- TR)

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

By /s/ Selcuk Demiralp 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Johannes Linn 

Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
   Dollars)

 249,974,700

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

100% of foreign
expenditures

Category

(1)

Eligible imported goods
and commodities
required for the Project
as specified in
Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement

(2)

(3)

Fee

TOTAL

Consultants’ services

      30,000

100%

   2,525,300

 ___________

 252,530,000

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

3.
made in respect of:  

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a) 

payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 

except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $50,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 17, 
1999; 

(b) 

expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than 

$100,000 equivalent; 

(c)

 expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance or which the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another 
loan; 

(d)

 expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 50% of the 

amount of the Loan for any category of eligible imports specified in Schedule 5 
without prior approval by the Bank; and (e)

expenditures for used or luxury goods.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods procured 
by the private sector costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent; and (b) commonly traded 
commodities such as petroleum and fuel products, costing less than $5,000,000 
equivalent procured under Part C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2 

Description of the Project 

The objective of the Project is to provide financing for import requirements 

arising from the recent earthquake in the Marmara region while assisting the Borrower 
to implement its earthquake recovery program and achieve its macroeconomic objectives. 

The Project consists of the financing of emergency imports as specified in 

Schedule 5 to this Agreement, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives and provision 
of technical assistance for Project implementation.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.

* * * 

SCHEDULE 3 

A.

General Definitions

Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 

For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 

(a)

“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 

(b)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 

this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 

(c)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 

Agreement. 

(d)

“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 

Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 

B.

Interest 

The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
1.
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.

(a)

From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 

2.
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(b)

From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 

thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:

(i)

LIBOR Base Rate; plus

(ii)

LIBOR Total Spread.

(i)

Fixed Base Rate; plus

(ii)

Fixed Total Spread.

3.
following meanings: 

For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 

(a)

“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 

Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(b)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 

Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:

(i)

three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);

(ii)

minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 

Period, below 
other reference rates, for 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 

six-month deposits, in respect of the 

portions thereof allocated by the 

portions thereof made by 

Interest 

(c)

“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.

(d)

“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 

(i)

three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 

(ii)

minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 

Date for such 
interbank offered rates, or 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 

Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 

other reference rates, for 

outstanding 

loans 

Disbursed 
as a percentage per 

annum. 

(iii) the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 

Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 

4.
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 

5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

C.

Repayment 

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
1.
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 

2.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 

of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October, 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 

3.
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.

After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 

SCHEDULE 4 

Procurement 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

Part A:

General 

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 

“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding 

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  Given the nature of the Loan, 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines shall specifically apply.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures  

Commonly traded commodities estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 

1.
per contract may be procured through organized international commodity markets or 
other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 

Goods imported by the private sector (other than those goods procured under Part 

2.
C.1 of this Part) estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured in accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the 
Bank. 

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

With respect to each contract for goods procured under Part B of this Schedule, 

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 

1.

Prior Review

2.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Procedure for the Selection of Consultants

Services for Project implementation shall be procured under contracts awarded in 

accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 

procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 

1.

Prior Review

2.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5 

List of Eligible Imported Goods and Commodities
to be Financed Under the Loan

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Construction materials 
Water and land transport vehicles 
Medical supplies and equipment 
Petroleum, fuel products and coal 
Construction equipment and industrial machinery 
Spare parts, raw materials and intermediate goods for industry and services.

SCHEDULE 6 

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 

the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 

$50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 

and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, and in the 

such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 

and other evidence. 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
6.
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

