CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4489 RO

Loan Agreement

(Private Sector Adjustment Loan)

between

ROMANIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 17, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4489 RO 

AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1999, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 

BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 4, 1999 from the Borrower 

describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 

(B)

on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 

support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I 

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

(a)

Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:

Agreement, in 

support of which the Loan is made.”;

“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 

(b)

Section 4.01 is modified to read: 

from the Loan 
specified in Section 2.02 of 

the Loan Agreement.”;

“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 

Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 

(c)

Section 5.01 is modified to read: 

the Loan 
these General 

Conditions”; 

“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of 

(d)

(e)

The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;

Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: 

“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and  furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the first phase of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to 
and the Bank of their respective 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”;  and  

the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 

(f)

Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 

and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the term “Deposit Account” means the account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

ARTICLE II 

The Loan 

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 

(b) 

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 

request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 

(c)

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 

to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.

(d)

No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account: (i) until the fee 

referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement has been paid; and (ii) after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have 
reached the amount of one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), unless the 
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 

this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of Program; (B) that the macroeconomic 
policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and 
(C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions 
taken are not satisfactory, or that the macroeconomic framework is not consistent with 
the objectives of the Program, and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, or the 
macroeconomic framework has not become consistent with the objectives of the Program, 
as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 

Section 2.04. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay to 

the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. 

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section: 

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the 

Date. 

of this 

Agreement. 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 

three-fourths of one 
weighted average margin, for such 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 

Interest Period, below (or above) 
reference rates, for 

borrowings or 

loans 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 

which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 

15 and September 15 in each year. 

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III 

Particular Covenants 

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 

request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

(b)

Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 

(c)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 

(a)

have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 

principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 

(b)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 

six (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 

(c)

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 

and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 

Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.

ARTICLE IV 

Additional Event of Suspension 

ARTICLE V 

Effective date; Termination 

Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program.

Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 

ARTICLE VI 

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 

Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

Conditions.

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest Romania

For the Bank:

International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

Telex:

11239

Telex:

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

ROMANIA

By /s/ Mircea Geoana 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink

SCHEDULE 1 

Excluded Expenditures

Authorized Representative

Country Director 
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit 

Europe and Central Asia

For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 

shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 

1. 
from the territory of the Borrower; 

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 

expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 

2.
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;

fuel 

for

platinum

expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 

3.
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group

Subgroup

Description of Items

112                     -

Alcoholic beverages

121                     -

122                     -

Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse

Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)

525                     -

Radioactive and associated materials

667

   -

Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked

718                  718.7

Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 

elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 

nuclear reactors

728

 728.43

Tobacco processing machinery

897                   897.3

Jewelry of gold, silver or 

971                      -

group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)

Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 

4.
luxury consumption; 

expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 

expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
5.
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 

6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 

expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 

7.
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

September 15, 2004

Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)* 

 6,595,000 

 6,775,000 
 6,960,000 
 7,150,000 
 7,345,000 
 7,545,000 
 7,750,000 
 7,960,000 
 8,175,000 
 8,400,000 
 8,630,000 
 8,860,000 
 9,105,000 
 9,350,000 
 9,605,000 
 9,865,000 

March 15, 2005
September 15, 2005
March 15, 2006
September 15, 2006
March 15, 2007
September 15, 2007
March 15, 2008
September 15, 2008
March 15, 2009
September 15, 2009
March 15, 2010
September 15, 2010
March 15, 2011
September 15, 2011
March 15, 2012
September 15, 2012                                     10,135,000 
March 15, 2013                                         10,410,000 
September 15, 2013 
March 15, 2014
September 15, 2014
March 15, 2015
September 15, 2015                                     11,905,000 
March 15, 2016                                         12,230,000 
September 15, 2016
March 15, 2017
September 15, 2017
March 15, 2018
September 15, 2018
March 15, 2019

12,560,000 
12,905,000 
13,255,000
13,615,000
13,985,000 
14,375,000

10,695,000
10,985,000 
11,285,000 
11,590,000 

________________________

*
as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

SCHEDULE 3 

Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) 
of this Agreement 

I.

Bank Restructuring

The Borrower has: (i) submitted to the Bank a satisfactory restructuring plan 

1.
for the privatization of Banca Comerciala Romana; (ii) appointed a privatization 
advisor, acceptable to the Bank, for carrying out the privatization of Banca 
Comerciala Romana; and (iii) completed a due diligence report, satisfactory to the 
Bank, on the loan portfolio of Banca Comerciala Romana.

The Borrower has: (i) submitted to the Bank a satisfactory restructuring plan 

2.
for the privatization of  Banca Agricola; (ii) appointed a privatization advisor, 
acceptable to the Bank, to assist the restructuring committee of Banca Agricola in the 
implementation of the restructuring plan for the privatization of Banca Agricola; and 
(iii) identified and transferred to the Borrower’s Asset Resolution Agency, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank, at least fifty percent (50%) of the non-performing 
assets of Banca Agricola. 

3.
implementation of the liquidation procedure of Bancorex.

The Borrower has adopted irreversible measures, agreed with the Bank, for the 

4.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the National 
Bank of Romania has issued regulations, based on internationally accepted accounting 
standards, providing that: (i) Romanian commercial banks shall, on a monthly basis, 
produce a risk classification of their portfolio and provisions for loan losses, which 
shall be tax deductible; (ii) Romanian commercial banks shall classify in the loss 
category all exposures (namely principal and accrued, but not received, interest) to 
clients against which forced execution, bankruptcy or liquidation procedures have been 
initiated; (iii) all such exposures shall be provisioned at one hundred percent (100%) 

and shall be tax deductible, irrespective of the value of the collateral attached to 
such exposures; and (iv) Romanian commercial banks shall write off against provisions 
all loans classified in the loss category and overdue for more than three hundred 
sixty (360) days.  

The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) the 

5.
Borrower’s Asset Resolution Agency has qualified management and staff members, and 
terms of reference for its operation, acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) advisors to the 
management of such Agency, acceptable to the Bank, have been appointed.

II.

Privatization 

6.
The Borrower has completed tendering procedures and concluded contracts, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with international investment banks acceptable to the Bank, 
for the privatization of at least three of the four large State owned enterprises 
agreed with the Bank.

7.
The Borrower has: (i) selected, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, five large 
State owned enterprises for privatization; and (ii) appointed international investment 
banks, acceptable to the Bank, for carrying out such privatization.

The Borrower has: (i) selected, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, five large 

8.
State owned enterprises for workout or liquidation; and (ii) appointed international 
liquidators, acceptable to the Bank, for carrying out such workout or liquidation.  

The Borrower has offered for sale, in pools acceptable to the Bank, at least 

9.
thirty (30) large State owned enterprises agreed with the Bank, to sale agents 
acceptable to the Bank, and has concluded advisory privatization contracts with such 
sale agents for the privatization of said enterprises.

The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the Borrower’s 

10.
State Ownership Fund has: (i) privatized or liquidated at least fifteen (15) large 
State owned enterprises and at least six hundred (600) small- and medium-sized State 
owned enterprises, representing altogether at least five percent (5%) of the total 
equity portfolio of the Borrower’s State Ownership Fund. 

The Borrower has proved satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the Borrower’s 

11.
State Ownership Fund has made a firm offer to sell the residual shares it holds in one 
hundred sixty (160) enterprises. 

The Borrower has appointed liquidators for, or terminated the operations of, 

12.
State owned enterprises generating at least twelve percent (12%) of the losses 
(including State subsidies) of the Borrower’s State Ownership Fund.

The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) it has 

13.
achieved a twenty-five percent (25%) proportional reduction of the accounting losses 
from operations (including State subsidies) of the six mining companies agreed with 
the Bank, as evidenced in their latest available quarterly reports for 1999, by 
comparison with the accounting losses from operations (including State subsidies) of 
said companies, as evidenced in their financial statements for 1998; and (ii) 
contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, for the technical closure and environmental 
mitigation work with respect to at least ten (10) mines have been concluded. 

14.
total capital of Petrom, including new shares. 

The Borrower has offered for sale at least thirty-five percent (35%) of the 

III.  Business Environment

The Borrower has: (i) completed a regulatory and structural assessment study, 

15.
and an improvement action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the regulatory and 
structural framework of the electricity, telecommunications, railways, and oil and gas 
sectors; and (ii) appointed international advisors, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
preparation of a privatization strategy regarding the generation and distribution of 
electricity.

16.
and (ii) issued implementing regulations relating to such law, satisfactory to the 

The Borrower has: (i) enacted a law on security interests in personal property; 

Bank.

17.
The Borrower’s Government has prepared and submitted to the Borrower’s 
Parliament: (i) a draft amendment to the corporate income tax law; and (ii) a draft 
personal income tax law, satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower has adopted by-laws, acceptable to the Bank, for the Borrower’s 

18.
Audit Chamber.  
19.
the improvement of the business environment, satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower has completed a business environment study, and an action plan for 

IV.

Social Mitigation 

20.
to the Bank.

The Borrower has enacted a Framework Law on Collective Dismissals, satisfactory 

The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (i) the 

21.
Borrower has financed any existing deficit in the Borrower’s Unemployment Fund; and 
(ii) all unemployment benefits and severance payments have been paid to eligible 
workers.

The Borrower has submitted to the Bank a satisfactory report on: (i) 

22.
unemployment levels; (ii) nominal and real unemployment benefit levels; and (iii) a 
cash-flow analysis and a financial forecast for the Borrower’s Unemployment Fund. 

23.
The Borrower has adopted legal measures, satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
accreditation of organizations for the administration of funds for micro-credits.

The Borrower has submitted to the Bank a report, satisfactory to the Bank, on: 

24.
(i) the number of social assistance recipients; (ii) nominal and real social 
assistance benefit levels; (iii) the kinds and quality of social assistance benefit 
delivery systems; and (iv) an action plan for the improvement of such delivery 
systems.

