CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4445-JO

(Amman Water and Sanitation Management Project)

Loan Agreement

between

and

THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 18, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 4445-JO 

AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1999, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 

Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Bank has received a letter dated August 18, 1997 from the Borrower 

describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i) develop 
water infrastructure and services to support the economic and social development of 
the Borrower; (ii) develop an enabling legal framework which would encourage 
investment in the water sector; and (iii) increase the availability of water at a 
tariff reflecting its economic cost, (collectively the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;

(C)

the Project will be carried out by Water Authority of Jordan (“WAJ”) with 

the Borrower ’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to WAJ the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

(D)

the Borrower intends to contract a loan in an amount equivalent to 40 

million ECU’s from the European Investment Bank (the “EIB Loan”) and a loan in an 
amount equivalent to 36 billion Lire from the Italian Republic (the “Italian Loan”) 
(European Investment Bank and Italy hereinafter referred to collectively as the 

“Cofinanciers” and the EIB Loan and the Italian Loan hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the “Cofinancing”)  to assist in financing the Project on terms and 
conditions to be set forth in agreements (the “Cofinancing Agreements”) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and WAJ.

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Management Contract” means the performance-based management contract to 
be entered into with a private sector operator for management of water and wastewater 
services in the Amman service area;

(b)

"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and WAJ (as such 

term is hereinafter defined)  of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;

(c)

“Planning and Management Unit” or “PMU” means the unit established within 
WAJ for the implementation of this Project, and referred to in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Project Agreement;

(d)
this Agreement;

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(e)

“Statutes” means Law No. 18 of 1988, Wastewater and Sanitation By-Law No. 
66 of 1994; Water Subscription By-Law No. 67 of 1994; and Groundwater Resources By-Law 
No. 26 of  1977;

(f)

"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and WAJ pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and

(g)

"WAJ" means the Water Authority of Jordan, established and operating 

pursuant to Law No. 18 of 1988.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifty-five million Dollars ($55,000,000). 

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 

(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

of one 
average margin, for such 
interbank offered rates, or other 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
reference rates, for six-month 

borrowings or 

loans 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause WAJ to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Loan to WAJ under a 

Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, terms whereby: (i) the principal 
amount thereof shall be the equivalent in Jordanian Dinars determined on the date of 
repayment of the amounts due under the Loan; (ii) the principal amount so made 
available shall be recovered over a period of 17 years, including a grace period of 4 
years; (iii) interest shall be charged on the principal amount so made available and 
withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement.

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by WAJ 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01.(a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 

Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
audited, in accordance 
consistently applied, by independent 
Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 

with appropriate auditing principles 

auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
of such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 

(6) months after the end of each such year the report 

auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 

by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

and 
to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Agreement.

WAJ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 

(b)

A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 

Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.

(c)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that WAJ will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(d)

The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of WAJ or its ability to carry out the Project or the ability of WAJ to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

(e)

The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 

December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.

(f)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

the loans 
suspended, 
pursuant to the terms of 

(A)

the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any of 
or grants included in the Cofinancing shall have been 

canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 

the agreement providing therefor, or

become due 

(B)

any of the loans, included in the Cofinancing, shall have 

and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 

to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 

establishes 
cancellation, 
the failure of the Borrower to 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement;

termination or prematuring is not caused by 
perform any of its obligations 

for the Project are 

conditions 

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

(b)

the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 

shall occur.

(c)

the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 

Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 

effectiveness of  the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and WAJ.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by WAJ 

and is legally binding upon WAJ in accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by the Borrower and WAJ and is legally binding upon the Borrower and WAJ in accordance 
with its terms. Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 555
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

Cable address: 

Telex:

21319NPC JO

For the Bank:

International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

By /s/ Marwan Muasher 

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Inder K. Sud 

Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
   Dollars)

 11,500,000

 24,000,000

Category

Works

Goods and vehicles

expenditures

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Consultants’ Services

  3,000,000

Management Contract
Fees

Project Management
Support

(6)

Unallocated

TOTAL

 10,000,000

  1,500,000

  5,000,000

 55,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

80%

100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local 

(ex-factory cost);
and 90% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally

100%

100%

100%

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

(c)

“Management Contract Fee” means the payments to be made to the private 

sector operator under the terms of the Management Contract; and

(d)

“Project Management Support” means the expenses of the Planning and 
Management Unit incurred on account of expert services for support of the PMU for 
Project implementation, management, accounting and monitoring services, including 

utilities, communication, international travel and office supplies.

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods, vehicles and works under 
contracts not exceeding $500,000; (b) for expenditures for Project Management Support; 
(c) for consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000; and (d) for 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the efficiency, management, 

operation and delivery of water and wastewater services in the Amman service area; and 
(ii) to lay the groundwork for the sustained involvement of the private sector in the 
overall management of the water and wastewater sector.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Management Contract

Improvement of the operation of the water supply and wastewater systems in the 

Amman service area through a performance-based management contract that would inter 
alia: introduce a maintenance and repair program for equipment for the water and 
wastewater systems; improve quality of the water supply; protect the integrity of 
surface and groundwater water sources; improve the inspection and functioning of the 
wastewater collection system; improve management information systems, including asset 
and customer databases and a computerized mapping system; improve customer service, 
including reading of meters and the billing and collection system; improve public 
relations, including development of a public information program; establish an 
occupational health and safety program and an emergency response plan; and develop 
management and technical training programs.

Part B:

Operating Investments

Improvements to rehabilitate the water and wastewater systems, including 

purchase of operating and construction equipment to rehabilitate the piping network 
and pumping system; purchase and installation of materials and parts to rehabilitate 
piping network and pumping systems, bulk and retail metering systems and control 
systems; carrying out a leak detection survey program for the majority of the 
distribution network; provision of computer hardware and software for administration 
and management of the water and wastewater systems; and purchase and use of operating 
supplies including treatment chemicals.

Part C:

Capital Investments

Design, implementation and supervision of the restructuring and rehabilitation 

of the water supply system, including upgrading and extension of service coverage, 
provision of equipment, installation of materials and parts to rehabilitate the piping 
network and pumping, metering and control systems, construction of distribution zone 
storage facilities and local district storage, construction of terminal bulk storage 
facilities, and strengthening or installing new primary mains and appurtenances.

Part D:

Institutional Strengthening of WAJ

Strengthening of the Planning and Management Unit, through provision of 

technical assistance, office equipment supplies and vehicles; improving the managerial 
and financial capacities of WAJ through provision of technical assistance; and 
provision of assistance for monitoring the private sector operator’s performance under 
the Management Contract, including technical and financial auditing, and carrying out 
of studies, including an assessment of the willingness of consumers to pay for water 

and wastewater services, development of a regulatory framework, and preparation of 
other proposed water sector projects throughout Jordan.

The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2003.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

 Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

August 15, 2003
February 15, 2004
August 15, 2004
February 15, 2005
August 15, 2005
February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016

1,485,000 
1,525,000 
1,565,000 
1,610,000 
1,655,000 
1,695,000 
1,745,000 
1,790,000 
1,840,000 
1,890,000 
1,940,000 
1,990,000 
2,045,000 
2,100,000 
2,160,000 
2,215,000 
2,275,000 
2,340,000 
2,400,000 
2,465,000 
2,535,000 
2,600,000 
2,670,000 
2,745,000 
2,820,000 
2,900,000

______________________

*
as provided  in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 

in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,500,000 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 

of $10,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

