CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4426-MOR

(Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project)

Loan Agreement

KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated September 29, 1999

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4426-MOR

AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1999, between the KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the 

Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 

and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 

to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as 
amended through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 

defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“AEFCS” means the Administration des Eaux et Forets et de 

Conservation des Sols in the Ministere Delegue aupres du MADRPM, as hereinafter 
defined;

(b)

“Beneficiaries” means Douars inhabitants, users of irrigation water 

under Part A.3 of the Project;

(c)

“Dirham” and “MAD” mean the lawful currency of the Borrower;

(d)
province;

“DPA” means the Provincial Department of Agriculture of the Azilal 

(e)

“MADRPM” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Agriculture or 

any successor thereto;

village development plan;

(f)

“PDD” means a Plan de Developpement de Douar, constituting a 

(g)

“PMU” means the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit to be 

maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 of 
this Agreement;

(h)

“Project Area” means the Borrower’s Azilal province; and

(i)
of this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
four million Dollars ($4,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 

maintain in Dirham a special deposit account in its General Treasury on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal 

to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On, or promptly after the 
effective date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 

the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 

of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 

Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 

including the date of this 
first Interest Payment Date occurring 
and after the initial period, each period from and including an 

Agreement to, but excluding, the 

thereafter, 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest 

Payment 

Date.

2.07 of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 

(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the 

London interbank 
Dollars for value the first day of such 
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the 

offered rate for six-month deposits in 

Interest 

Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day 

of such 
the Bank and expressed as a 

Interest Period), as reasonably determined by 

percentage per annum.

(iv)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 

three fourths of one 
the weighted average margin, for such 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
Interest Period, below (or 

borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the 

determined by the Bank and 

currency 
Loan; as reasonably 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 

Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

February 15,   and August 15, in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through DPA with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 

Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 

Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 

and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 

furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 

records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)
of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 

including those for the Special Account 

accordance with appropriate 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

not later than six 
report of such audit by said 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

(6) months after the end of each such year, the 

auditors, of such scope and in 

requested; and

records and 
shall from time to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 

request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 

Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

paragraph (a) of this 
such expenditures;

(i)

Maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 

Section, records and accounts reflecting 

(ii)
the audit report 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 

for the fiscal year in which the last 

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 

made, all 

documents) evidencing such expenditures;

and

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 

annual audit 
and that the report of such audit 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 

contains a separate opinion 

upon to 

support the related withdrawals.

and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely that a situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project or a significant part 
thereof will be carried out

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

ARTICLE VI

Termination

ARTICLE VII

Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 

designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 

Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco

Cable address: 

MINFIN

For the Bank:

Telex:

36715

International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.

KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Kemal Dervis

Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 

1.
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent)

   2,200,000

     200,000

Category

(1)

Civil works

(2)
foreign

Goods

(ex-

local

for

locally

(4)
under

Fee

of

(3)

Training and
Consultants’ services

   1,300,000

100%

      39,604

(5)

Unallocated

TOTAL

     260,396

   4,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 

of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 

the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 

3.
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

80%

100% of 

expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 

factory cost),
and 80% of 

ependitures 

other items
procured 

Amount due 

Section 2.04 

this Agreement

equivalent of $400,000, may be made in respect of categories (1), (2) and (3) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1998.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 

4.
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) 
goods; (b) works costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (c) consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to test, on a pilot basis, participatory 

approaches to improve land use and natural resource management in mountainous 
areas in the Project Area.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:

Part A:

Natural Resources Management

1.
Development, through a participatory approach, including all development 
actors in particular women, of a set of measures for erosion control including 
(i) the protection of gullies and ravines to stabilize the soils, (ii) range 
land improvement in degraded silvo-pastoral lands, and (iii) progressive 
re-vegetalization with suitable local species of badlands.

2.
silvo-pastoral management plans.

Preparation and implementation on a participatory basis of simplified 

3.
Carrying out of feasibility studies for, and implementation of, the 
rehabilitation of about 500 hectares of small scale irrigation systems through a 
set of technical measures including the renovation and improvements of diversion 
weirs and intake structures, systematic lining of earth canals to the on-farm 
distribution systems, gated distribution installations on the canals and bank, 
and flood protection structures in the Project Area.

4.
Provision of equipment and technical assistance for the carrying out of a 
program of agriculture development through the intensification of irrigated and 
rain-fed crops production, and the plantation of fruit trees accompanied by 
water collectors, small walls and rehabilitation of old plantations.

Part B:

Development of Socio-Economic Infrastructure

Carrying out of feasibility studies for, and construction of, the rural 

infrastructure provided for in each PDD, including about 80 km of forest access 
roads.

Part C:

Institutional and Implementation Capacity building of the DPA

1.
implementation.

Acquisition of computer and transport equipment for Project 

Carrying out of a training program on participatory techniques for Project 

2.
staff, including male and female animators, elected representatives and local 
administration officials.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Date Payment Due

August 15, 2004
February 15, 2005
August 15, 2005
February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
February 15, 2018
August 15, 2018
February 15, 2019

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)*

 85,000
 85,000
 90,000
 90,000
 95,000
 95,000
100,000
105,000
105,000
110,000
115,000
115,000
120,000
125,000
125,000
130,000
135,000
140,000
145,000
150,000
150,000
155,000
160,000
165,000
170,000
175,000
180,000
190,000
195,000
200,000

_________________________________

*
except as provided  in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 

Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.

Part B:

Procurement Procedures

1.

National Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part B, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.

Community Participation

Works under Parts A and B of the Project may be procured in accordance 

with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.

National Shopping

4.

Direct Contracting

Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 of this Part B, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

Goods which should be purchased from the original supplier to be 

compatible with existing equipment may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 

bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been agreed 
with the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.

Prior Review

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, 
and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 

services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

1.

Single Source Selection

Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may, 

with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the procedures 
of paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants Guidelines.

2.

Individual Consultants

Individual consultants’ services under the Project shall be procured under 

contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 

proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
agreed with the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 

firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 

the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

Responsibility for the overall planning and execution of the Project shall 

1.
be vested with DPA. The Borrower shall maintain DPA’s mandate with due regard 
and in conformity with the Project’s objectives and shall provide DPA with 
qualified staff  in adequate numbers to ensure the discharge of the 
aforementioned responsibilities.

The DPA shall be headed by a director who will be the Project manager, and 

2.
who will be seconded by the PMU to be maintained by the Borrower with staff 
consisting of an administrative and accounting unit, a team of technical staff 
specialized in the areas of forestry, soil conservation, agronomy, rural 
engineering, sociology and communication, and a team of six (6) animators 
covering the four (4) communes under the Project.

The Borrower shall carry out the training program under Part C.2 of the 
3.
Project in accordance with terms of reference, and pursuant to a time-schedule 
acceptable to the Bank.

Activities under Part A of the Project shall be carried out on the basis 

4.
of a PDD including the localization of the activity, its modalities of 
implementation and schedule, the participating communities and the conditions of 
exploitation and maintenance of the proposed activity, and, in particular, PDD 
shall include Beneficiaries’ contribution in capital-cost and responsibility for  
operation and maintenance of schemes under Parts A and B of the Project, all in 
amounts and under processes acceptable to the Bank.

5.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 

and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 

furnish to the Bank, on or about March 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and

(c)

review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 

Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set 

forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 

the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 

$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $150,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  $1,500,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 

3.
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 

out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 

4.
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 

the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 

eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 

6.
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 

outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 

or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.

