CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 7005 SLO

Loan Agreement

(Health Sector Management Project)

REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated April 18, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 7005 SLO

AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA (the Borrower) and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 16, 1999, from the 

Borrower describing a phased program (the Program) to improve performance in the 
health sector through development of appropriate policies and standards and a unified 
national health information management system, and declaring the Borrower’s commitment 
to implementation of the Program;

(B)

the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the 

Program through extension to the Borrower of loans up to the equivalent of $13,000,000 
over a period of seven (7) years; 

(C)

the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; which constitutes the first phase 
of the Program; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.

Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 

follows:

“(c ) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 

date as may be 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
Borrower shall prepare and 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits  derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of  the 
Loan.”

respective 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“External Advisory Group” means a group of national and international 

experts to be established by the Project Board (hereinafter defined) to provide 
professional guidance and overall direction to said Board for Project implementation;

(b)

“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2); set forth in the 

table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.;

(c)

“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 

referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(d)

“HIIS” means the Borrower’s Health Insurance Institute (Zavod za 

zdravstveno zavarovanje Slovenije) established by Law No. 9/92 on Health Care and 
Health Insurance dated March 1, 1992;

(e)

(f)

“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health (Ministrstvo za zdravstvo);

“NHIC” means the National Health Information Clearinghouse to be 

established by the Borrower in order to collect, process and provide health 
information in the Republic of Slovenia;

(g)

“PIP” means the manual for the carrying out of the Project prepared and 

adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank;

(h)

“PMPSU” means the Project Management and Professional Support Unit to be 

established by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement for the purposes of Project management;

(i)

“Project Board” means the Project Board established by the Borrower to 

provide policy guidance, inter-agency coordination and oversight of Project 
implementation;

(j)

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 

Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

(k)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 

to this Agreement; and

(l)

“Technical Working Groups” means the working groups established by the 

Borrower each of which will address an aspect of health sector policy and health 
information standards.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to nine million 
Euro (EUR 9,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to ninety thousand Euro (EUR 90,000). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 

principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.

Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.

Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 

Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:

(i)

a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 

the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 

principal amount of 
Approved Currency; and

portion of the 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 

(ii)

a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 

principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 

versa.

(b)

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 

is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through the MOH (with the 

support of the HIIS), with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, health and information practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 

and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 

including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 

(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 

paragraph 
Special Account for 
auditing standards acceptable to 
independent auditors acceptable to the 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 

the Bank, consistently applied, by 

Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 

later than six 
certified copies of the 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

financial statements referred to in 

year as so audited, and 

accounts and 
detail 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 

and 
auditors, as the Bank may 

accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 

from time to time reasonably request.

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(a) of this 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 

Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 

the audit 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 

report for the fiscal year in which the last 

was made, all records (contracts, 

documents) evidencing such 

expenditures;

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 

audit 
report of such audit 
as to whether the Project 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

Management Reports or statements of 

year, together with the 

preparation, 

Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 

Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:

(i)

(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 

Project, both 
report, and projected sources 
Project for the six-month period following 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
and applications of funds for the 

the period covered by said 
financed out of the 
report 

Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;

cumulatively 
variances between 
targets; and

(ii)

(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 

and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 

the actual and previously forecast implementation 

(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 

expenditures under 
as at the end of the 

contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 

period covered by said report.

(b)

Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)

a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 

Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and

(b)

the PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived without 

the prior consent of the Bank.

Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 

effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

(a)

the Borrower has employed, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 

Bank, consultants to staff and manage the PMPSU;

(b)

the PMPSU has been established and is operating in a manner satisfactory 

to the Bank;

(c)
established; and

a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 

(d)

the Borrower has appointed the auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, 

referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower, is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance 
Ministrstvo za Finance 
Zupanciceva Ulica 3 SI-1000 
Ljubljana Slovenia 

Telex:

86231284

For the Bank:

International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

Telex:

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Ljubljana, Republic of Slovenia, as of the day and year first above 
written.

REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA

By /s/ Mitja Gaspari 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

Authorized Representative

   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Roger W. Grawe 

SCHEDULE 1

Acting Regional Vice President 

Europe and Central Asia

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan A.

General

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

(1)

(2)

Category

Goods

Consultants’
services

Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed
   in Euro)

   2,800,000

   5,000,000

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

75%

100%

(3)

Fee

      90,000

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

(4)

Unallocated

TOTAL

   1,110,000

   9,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; and (b) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting  firms and $25,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.

B.

Special Account

1.
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account, in its 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
2.
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 

Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and

(b)

upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 

Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 

3.
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.

4.
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 

(a)

if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 

does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;

(b)

if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 

made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or

(c) 

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.

The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 

5.
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.

(a)

If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
6.
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.

(b)

If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 

Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.

Annex A to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

1.

For the purposes of this Annex:

The term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of EUR 500,000 to be withdrawn 

from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 
of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of EUR 250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of EUR 1,000,000.

2.
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.

(b)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.

3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

Annex B to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 

1.
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.

2.
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.

Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 

Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 

3.
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of EUR 1,000,000.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The Project constitutes the first phase of the Program which has the objective 

of improving performance in the health sector through development of appropriate 
policies and standards for the sector and a unified national health information 
management system.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Health Policy Support

Development and initiation of implementation by the Technical Working Groups of 

action plans for addressing aspects of health sector policy (including, but not 
limited to, health care financing, health sector capacity planning, institutional 
management, public health care network modernization, and diagnostic and therapeutic 
standards development); all based on an analysis of present regulatory, technical and 
institutional aspects, reform options, and international experience and best practice 
and with a view to devising, launching and implementing said action plans.

Part B:

Health Information Standards Formulation

Development by the Technical Working Groups of a set of common information 
standards for the health sector covering among others: (a) subject of care; (b) health 
characteristics; (c) health care activities; (d) health care resources; and (e) health 
information systems authorization.

Part C:

Health Information Systems Implementation

Establishment of the NHIC as a manager and custodian of health information 

systems to be developed (based on the standards formulated under Parts A and B of the 
Project) for connecting health institutions into a nationally integrated health 
information system.

Part D:

Project Management and Professional Support

Establishment, equipping and staffing of the PMPSU and provision to it of 
technical assistance, including audit services, for purposes of management of Project 
implementation.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 

percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.

Payment Date

Installment Share
(Expressed as a %)

On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2005 
  through November 15, 2014

5%

2.

If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 

Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

(a)

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

(b)

Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 

repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

(a)

3.
Withdrawals made within two (2) months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal.

(b)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 

4.
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.

If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 

5.
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

Part A:

General

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 

“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 

(a)

Grouping of contracts

To the extent practicable, contracts for goods for information systems shall be 

grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.

(b)

Two-stage bidding procedure

The bidding procedure for contracts for the supply and installation of 
information technologies shall be carried out in two stages in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.

(c)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

International Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

2.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.

3.

Direct Contracting

Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $250,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 

the procedures referred to in Part B above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 

the procedures referred to in Part C.3 above the following procedures shall apply:

contracting 
copy of the 

(ii)
Appendix 1 to the 

(i)

prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 

procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 

specifications and the draft contract; and

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 

Guidelines shall apply.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality-and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

1.

Quality-based Selection

Services for: (a) the Project manager for the PMPSU under Part D of the Project; 

(b) the health specialist for the PMPSU under Part D of the Project; and (c) the 
health informatics specialist for the PMPSU under Part D of the Project, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.

Single Source Selection

Services under Parts A, B and D of the Project which are estimated to cost less 

than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

3.

Individual Consultants

Services for technical assistance for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 

in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, and, irrespective of the value of the 
contract, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.5 of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

4.

Service Delivery Contractors

Services to be provided under Parts A, B and C of the Project may be procured in 

accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

1.
forth or referred to in the PIP.

The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set 

2.
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the Project Board 

The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PMPSU with 

3.
resources, staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and shall assign to 
it responsibility for overall Project implementation and coordination, including:

(a)

preparation of bidding documents and administration of bidding procedures 

and of contracts under the Project;

(b)

preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan;

(c)
Agreement;

management of the Special Account referred to in Schedule 1 to the Loan 

(d)

maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 

for the audit thereof; and

(e)

preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof, not 

later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, to the Borrower and the Bank.

The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by September 30 in each year, 

4.
for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for the Project for the 
following calendar year, including procurement and financing plans.

5.
The Borrower shall maintain the Technical Working Groups until completion, 
satisfactory to the Bank, of each such Group’s activities, with resources, composition 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

6.

For purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:

(a)

by December 1, 2000, complete, under terms of reference agreed upon with 

the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a study of the legal 
form, structure and functions of the NHIC; and

(b)

based on the findings of such study and the Bank’s comments thereon, 

commence by January 1, 2001, the process for the establishment of NHIC in accordance 
with a time schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank.

By December 1, 2000, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until 

7.
completion of the Project, the External Advisory Group, with resources, composition 
and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank.

8.

The Borrower shall:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and of measures included in the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as the 

Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

