CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4562-EGT

Loan Agreement

(Second National Drainage Project)

ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated November 26, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4562-EGT

AGREEMENT, dated November 26, 2000, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 

Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“DRI” means the Drainage Research Institute of the Ministry of Water 

Resources and Irrigation (hereinafter referred to as the “Ministry”);

(b)

“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2, 3 and 4; set forth in the 

table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(c)

“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 

services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(d)

“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan 

dated March 10, 2000 and agreed upon between EPADP and the Bank, setting forth the 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset 
or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank;

(e)

“EPADP” means the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects, 

operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 158 of 1973, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, being the implementing agency for the Project, or 
any successor thereto;

“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

(f)

(g)

coordinate the carrying out of the Project;

“Project Management Team” means the team established within EPADP to 

(h)

“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 

Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and

(i)
to this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million United States dollars (US$50,000,000).

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the 

Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 

equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 

including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 

the 

first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
initial period, each period from and 
Payment Date to, but excluding 
Payment Date.

and after the 

including an Interest 
the next following Interest 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 

Section 2.07 of this Agreement.

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 

London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 

currency for value the first day of such 
in the case of the initial 
Interest Payment Date 
day of such 
Bank 

and expressed as a percentage per annum.

Interest Period, for value the 

occurring on or next preceding the first 

Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 

single 
Interest Period (or, 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 

(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 

plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
below (or above) the London interbank 
rates, for six-month 

offered rates, or other reference 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 

fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 

borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to 

(or 
Interest Period, 

it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

the Bank and 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 

arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Section 2.09. EPADP is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 

purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance (MOF) for the purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service 
payments with respect to the Loan.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through EPADP with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
engineering, environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

(b)

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
EPADP, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through EPADP, shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through EPADP, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.

(b)

The Borrower, through EPADP, shall:

(i)

have the records, accounts and financial statements 

referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 

records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
the Bank, consistently applied, 
the Bank;

standards acceptable to 
by independent auditors acceptable to 

fiscal year 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 

case not later than six months after the end of each 

such 

year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
(B) an opinion on such 
such 

statements referred 
for such year as so audited, and 
statements, records and accounts and report of 

detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 

such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 

concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to 
reasonably request.

time 

(c)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through EPADP, shall:

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 

paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 

accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 

the 

last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
such expenditures;

and other documents) evidencing 

records (contracts, 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 

records; and

(iv)

ensure that such records and accounts are included in 

the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 

Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Reports or statements of expenditure 
year, together with the 
involved in their 
related 

withdrawals.

separate 

Project Management 

submitted during such fiscal 

procedures and internal controls 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 

Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 

Agreement, the Borrower, through EPADP, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for 
the Project in order to enable the Borrower, through EPADP, not later than December 
31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:

(i)

(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds 

for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 

covered by said report, and projected sources and 
of funds for the Project for the six-month 
period covered by said report, and 
financed out of the 
by said 

period following the 
(B) shows separately expenditures 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered 

applications 

the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 

report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of 

following the period covered by said report;

(ii)

(A) describes physical progress in Project 

implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 

covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
actual and previously forecast 
and

implementation targets; 

between the 

(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project 

and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 

proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
said report.

covered by 

(b)

Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 

this Section, the Borrower, through EPADP,  shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of Article XII 
of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower through EPAPD shall have 
established the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement.

Section 5.02 The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of Article XII of the 
General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 

of State for Planning and International Cooperation and the Head of the Sector for 
International and Regional Finance Organizations of the Ministry of International 
Cooperation of the Borrower are designated severally as representative of the Borrower 

for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of International Cooperation
(Sector for International and Regional Finance 

Organizations)

8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt

Cable address: 

Telex:

Facsimile:

927-23348 

(202) 391-5167

Ministry of International 
   Cooperation
Cairo, 
Arab Republic of Egypt

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI); or
 64145 (MCI)

(202) 477-6391

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.

ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

By /s/ Ahmed Mahmoud El-Dersh

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Mahmood A. Auyb

Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

A.

General

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

   (Expressed in Dollars) to be Financed

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated

    % of
Expenditures

4,500,000

32%

(1)  Civil Works

     (a) under Part A1
  and 2 of the 
  Project
  (excluding 
  drainage pipes)

  and 2 of the 
  Project
  (including 
  drainage pipes)

     (b) under Part A1    23,000,000

54%

     (c) under Part A3
  of the Project

2,000,000

38% 

(2) PVC/PE Powder
    and synthetic filter

9,500,000

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

(3) Other goods

8,000,000

(4) Consultants’
    services and 
    training

  100,000

100%

(5) Front-end fee

  500,000

(6) Unallocated

2,400,000

TOTAL

50,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

4.
of statements of expenditure under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent for 

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

goods, $750,000 equivalent for works, $100,000 equivalent for contracts for the 
employment of consultant firms and $50,000 equivalent for contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower’s EPADP.

B.

Special Account

The Borrower’s EPADP shall open and maintain in United States dollars a special 

1.
deposit account, in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
2.
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 

Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower’s EPADP for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and

(b)

upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 

Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower’s EPADP 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 

3.
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower’s EPADP out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower’s EPADP shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

4.
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 

(a)

if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 

does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;

(b)

if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 

made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or

(c)

if the Borrower’s EPADP shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within 

the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect 
of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.

The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 

5.
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.

(a)

If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
6.
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.

(b)

If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 

Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.

Annex A to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

1.

For the purposes of this Annex:

The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be 

withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$12,000,000.

2.
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 

(a)

For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 

Borrower’s EPADP  shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower’s EPADP  shall 

furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower’s 
EPADP shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower’s EPADP shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.

3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

Annex B to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 

1.
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.

2.
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.

Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 

Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 

3.
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase the efficiency of drainage of 

about 0.8 million feddans of irrigated land; (b) to increase agricultural production 
and improve rural income; and (c) to identify and oversee the resolution of 
environmental issues resulting from the discharge into the open drains of untreated 
industrial and domestic waste water in the project area.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Drainage Works

1.
cultivated land and for an area of about 110,000 feddans in the reclaimed lands.

Provision of subsurface drainage for an area of about 390,000 feddans in old 

2.
about 300,000 feddans of areas.

Renewal and rehabilitation of old malfunctioning subsurface drainage serving 

3.
an area of about 365,000 feddans to receive subsurface drainage effluent.

Deepening and remodeling of existing main and secondary open surface drains on 

Part B:

Equipment and materials for the Regional Emergency Centers

1.

Provision of PVC/PE powder for a transitional period.

2.
centers, including mobile units.

Provision of electro-mechanical pumping equipment for the regional emergency 

3.

Provision of  subsurface and open drain operation and maintenance equipment.

4.
equipment required for the drainage program.

Provision of vehicles, spare-parts, attachments for existing equipment and other 

Part C:

Institutional Support

Provision for EPADP of: (a) operation equipment, utility vehicles, equipment for 

1.
field investigations, computers, geographic information system equipment and 
laboratory and office equipment; (b) consultant services for specialized studies 
related to management information systems, geographic information systems, the future 
strategy for EPADP’s  pipe manufacturing facilities and other Project related studies; 
and for monitoring and evaluation activities; and (c) training for EPADP staff.

2.

Provision for DRI of equipment, consultant services and training to assist in 

monitoring water quality and preparing site specific environmental assessment reports 
and compliance action plans for mitigating and controlling waste water pollution by 
the concerned authorities. 

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

October 15, 2005
April 15, 2006
October 15, 2006
April 15, 2007
October 15, 2007
April 15, 2008
October 15, 2008
April 15, 2009
October 15, 2009
April 15, 2010
October 15, 2010
April 15, 2011
October 15, 2011
April 15, 2012
October 15, 2012
April 15, 2013
October 15, 2013
April 15, 2014
October 15, 2014
April 15, 2015
October 15, 2015
April 15, 2016
October 15, 2016
April 15, 2017
October 15, 2017
April 15, 2018
October 15, 2018
April 15, 2019
October 15, 2019
April 15, 2020

___________________

  995,000
1,030,000
1,065,000
1,100,000
1,135,000
1,175,000
1,210,000
1,255,000
1,295,000
1,335,000
1,380,000
1,430,000
1,475,000
1,525,000
1,575,000
1,630,000
1,680,000
1,740,000
1,795,000
1,855,000
1,920,000
1,980,000
2,050,000
2,115,000
2,185,000
2,260,000
2,335,000
2,410,000
2,490,000
2,575,000

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement

The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as 

*
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, 
4.03.

Sections 3.04 and 

of the 

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 

2.
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

Limited International Bidding

Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Bank agrees 
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost 
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.

2.

National Competitive Bidding

Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 

provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

3.

International Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

4.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

5.

Direct Contracting

Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment and are of a proprietary nature and costing $3,000,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 

equivalent of $1,500,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for goods to cost the equivalent of 

$1,000,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:

(i)

prior to the execution of any contract procured under 

direct contracting procedures, the Borrower, through 

specifications and 

EPADP, 

shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
the draft contract; and

(ii)

the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 

of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Part A:

General

Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 

Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.

Part B:

Quality- and Cost-based Selection

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 

1.
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 

2.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.

Individual Consultants

Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 

Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.

Selection Planning

Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 

estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.

(c)

With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 

consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

1.
vested in EPADP which shall be assisted by the Project Management Team.

Overall responsibility for coordination of all project activities shall be 

2.
The Borrower shall, through EPADP, prepare and furnish to the Bank, on January 
31 and July 31 in each year and until Project completion, a consolidated semi-annual 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

The Borrower, through EPADP and in cooperation with the concerned authorities, 

3.
shall implement the Environmental Management Plan, prepare site specific environmental 
assessment reports acceptable to the Bank and oversee the implementation of the 
corresponding mitigating measures. The Borrower, through EPADP and other concerned 
authorities, shall ensure that the national environment laws and executive regulations 
on pollution control be enforced in the project area.

4.

The Borrower shall, through EPADP:

(a)

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

(b)

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and

(c)

review with the Bank, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 

shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

5.
the staffing of the environmental unit established by EPADP.

The Borrower shall, through EPADP, complete, not later than December 31, 2000, 

