CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4566 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Second Beijing Environment Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated October 10, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4566 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 2000, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 

CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Beijing (as defined in 

Section 1.02(b)) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Beijing, as set 
forth in this Agreement; 

(C)

the Borrower has requested the assistance from the resources 

of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of 
the Project, the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in 
accordance with Resolution No. 94-02 of the Executive Directors dated May 
24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and by an agreement of even 

date (the GEF Grant Agreement) herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, acting as an implementing agency of GEF, GEF is agreeing to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to eighteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,900,000) 
(the GEF Trust Fund Grant); and 

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank, acting on its own behalf and as an 
implementing agency of GEF, and Beijing (the Project Agreement);

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 

Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through October 6, 1999, (General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 

terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

(a)

“Affected Persons” means persons who on account of the 

execution of the Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely 
affected, and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons.

(b)

“Beijing” means the Beijing Municipality, an administrative 

sub-division of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

(c)

“Beijing Drainage Company” and “BDC” mean a state-owned 

enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter of 1993 and 
to Business License No. 1101021302158(1-1), dated June 28, 1999, issued 
by Beijing Xicheng District Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau, and any successor thereto.

(d)

“BEPB” means the Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau 

which is responsible for, inter alia, environmental management in 
Beijing.

(e)

“Boiler Conversion” means a proposal under Part A(1) of the 
Project by an Enduser to replace its coal-fired boiler or boilers with a 
gas-fired boiler or boilers.

(f)

“Boiler Sale and Purchase Contract” means the agreement 

referred to in Section II, paragraph 7(a) of Schedule 3 to the Project 
Agreement, to be entered into between SJET and an Enduser, as said 
agreement may be amended from time to time.

(g)

“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table 

in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

(h)

“Company Law” means the Borrower’s Company Law, promulgated 

on December 29, 1993 and made effective on July 1, 1994.

(i)

“Enduser” means an entity or individual that owns one or 

more coal-fired boilers and applies to SJET for a Boiler Conversion.

(j)

“Environmental Assessment” means the Second Beijing 

Environment Project Environmental Assessment dated April 2000, which 
includes an environmental assessment of the implementation of Parts A(1) 
and B of the Project, environmental mitigation measures and the 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation 
of such measures. 

(k)

“Gas Boiler” means a gas-fired boiler and associated 

equipment essential for the operation and maintenance of such boiler.

(l)

“Heating Energy Conservation Center” and “HECC” mean the 

Heating Energy Conservation Center established and maintained pursuant to 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and any successor 
thereto. 

(m)

“IDP” means the Institutional Development Plan of Beijing 
Drainage Company dated November 1999, which sets out a broad framework 
for improving the management of BDC and restructuring BDC as an 
autonomous enterprise. 

(n)

“Operations Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the 

Bank, to be developed by SJET pursuant to Section II, paragraph 6(a) of 
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, as such manual may be revised from 
time to time with the prior approval of the Bank.

(o)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank, 

acting on its own behalf and as an implementing agency of GEF, and 
Beijing of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Project Agreement.

(p)

“Renminbi” means the currency of the Borrower.

(q)

“Respective Part of the Project” means: 

(i)

for SJET:  Parts A(1) and A(2) of the Project; and

(ii)

for BDC: Parts B, C and D of the Project. 

(r)

“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Resettlement Action 

Plan for Sewerage Component of Second Beijing Environment Project, dated 
March 29, 2000, which sets out the procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation for Affected Persons under Part B of the 
Project, as well as monitoring and reporting arrangements to ensure 
compliance with said plan, as such Resettlement Action Plan may be 
revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank.

(s)

“SJET” means Shihuan Jietien Energy Technology Company, a 

limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of September 7, 1999, and to Business License No. 1101021094879 
dated November 17, 1999, issued by Beijing Industrial and Commercial 
Administration Bureau, and any successor thereto. 

(t)

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 

2.02(b) of this Agreement.

(u)

“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between Beijing and SJET pursuant to paragraph 4(b) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, with the agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any 
schedules to said agreement.

(v)

“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the 

agreements to be entered into between Beijing and each of SJET and BDC 
pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, with the agreement of the Bank, 
and such term includes any schedules to said agreements; and “Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement” means either one of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 

and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to three hundred forty-nine million Dollars ($349,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 

Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 

maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such 

later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 

equal to an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  
On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 

charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 

including the date of this 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including 

Agreement to, but 

an 
following Interest Payment 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 

Date.

Section 2.07 of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 

the London interbank 
deposits in Dollar for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
value the 
preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.

offered rate for six-month 

Interest Period), as 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 

(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 

minus (or plus) the weighted 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
portions thereof allocated by 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.

respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 

average margin, for such 

the Bank to fund single 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 

LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 

the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 

semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Beijing to carry out 
the Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Beijing therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 

facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable Beijing to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available 

to Beijing on the following principal terms:

(i)

equivalent in terms of 
the date, or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Account or payment out of the Special Account, as the case may be) of the 

the principal amount so made available shall be the 
dollars (determined as of 

Loan 

paid out on account of the 
services required for the Project and to be financed 
the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be recovered by the Borrower in 

value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
cost of goods, works and 

out of 

Dollars;

(ii)

the Borrower shall recover: (A) the principal amount 

so made available; and 
percent (1%) of said principal amount, over a 
of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; 

(B) an amount equal to one 

period 

and

(iii) the Borrower shall charge Beijing: (A) interest on 

the principal amount so 
withdrawn and remaining unpaid from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 

made available and 

pursuant to Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (B) a 

commitment charge on the 
available and not withdrawn from time to time at a 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

principal amount so made 

rate 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 

of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 

obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out 
by Beijing pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

with sound accounting 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;

(i)

maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance 

practices, records and 

(ii)

retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

received the audit report 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 

for the fiscal year in which the 

payment 

such expenditures;

records; and

invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 

ensure that such records and accounts are included in 

(iv)
the annual audit 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
together with the procedures 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 

expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 

referred to in paragraph (b) of 

and internal controls 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in 

paragraph (a) (i) of this 
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 

Section, including those 

applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 

Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 

case not later than six 
year the report of such audit by said 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 

months after the end of each such 

auditors, of 

requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
statements of expenditure submitted 

whether the 
during such fiscal year, together with the 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 

procedures 

upon to support the related withdrawals; and

said records and 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
accounts and the audit thereof as 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)

Beijing shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 

under the Project Agreement. 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 

the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that Beijing will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.

(c)

(i)

Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the 

right of the Borrower to 
Trust Fund Grant made to the Borrower for 
of Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project shall have been suspended, 

withdraw the proceeds of  the GEF 
the financing 

canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 

of the GEF 

Grant Agreement. 

the Borrower establishes 

to the satisfaction of the Bank 

(ii)

Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 

that:

(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is 

not caused by the failure 
its obligations under the GEF Grant 
and (B) adequate funds for Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project are 

of the Borrower to perform any of 

Agreement; 

available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 

consistent with the obligations of the 

conditions 
Borrower under this Agreement.

(d)

Beijing, SJET or BDC shall have failed to perform any of its 

obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(e)

Beijing or SJET shall have failed to perform any of its 

obligations under the Susbsidiary Grant Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 

Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
of the events specified in paragraph (a), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 

conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:

(a)

Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of 

Beijing and each of SJET and BDC.

(b)

GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.

(c)

SJET shall have adopted and put into effect the Operations 

Manual in accordance with Section II, paragraph 6(a) of Schedule 3 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional 

matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General 
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to 
the Bank: 

(a)

The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 

by Beijing and is legally binding upon Beijing in accordance with its 
terms.

(b)

Each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Beijing and 

each of SJET and BDC has been duly authorized or ratified by Beijing and 
SJET or BDC, as the case may be, and is legally binding upon Beijing and 
SJET or BDC, as the case may be, in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 

General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 

as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

22486 MFPRC CN

86-10-68551125

FINANMIN

Beijing 

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

477-6391

INTBAFRAD

248423 (MCI) or

(202) 

Washington, D.C.

 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the 
day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

By /s/ Zhu Guangyao

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

SCHEDULE 1

Authorized Representative

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 

1.
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:

Amount of the Loan
Allocated (expressed

   % of 

   in Dollars)

to be 

   90,000,000

40%

(a) Parts A(1) and

  168,300,000

100% of 

Expenditures

Category

Financed

(1)

Works under Part B
of the Project

(2)

Goods under:

foreign expenditures,

A(4) of the Project

expenditures

cost) and 70%

expenditures for

procured locally

foreign expenditures,
of the Project

expenditures

cost) and 70%

expenditures for

procured locally

100% of local 

(ex-factory 

of local 

other items 

100% of local 

(ex-factory 

of local 

other items 

(b) Parts B and C 

   83,110,000

100% of 

(3)

Consultants’ services
and training’

    4,100,000

100%

(4)
under Section

Fee

Loan Agreement

    3,490,000

Amount due 

2.04 of the 

TOTAL

  349,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 

currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in the currency of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region and expenditures in the currency of 
the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that 

are not foreign expenditures. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 

3.
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures under the 
Project prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in 
an aggregate amount not exceeding $30,000,000 for expenditures by SJET 
under Part A(1) of the Project and by BDC under Part B of the Project may 
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after December 31, 1999.

4.
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 

(a)
equivalent each; 

works under contracts costing less than $10,000,000 

(b)

goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent 

each; 

(c)

consultants’ services under contracts with firms or 

individuals, each costing less than $100,000 equivalent or $50,000 
equivalent respectively; and

(d)

training, regardless of the cost thereof,

all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist Beijing in alleviating 

air and water pollution through: (a) promotion of natural gas as an 
alternative to coal as a fuel source for boilers; (b) promotion of energy 
conservation in district heating systems; (c) building of sewage 
collection networks and treatment facilities in the Liangshu River and 
Qing River basins; and (d) strengthening of Beijing’s environmental 
management policies and institutions. 

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 

modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Air Pollution Control

Improving air quality in selected areas in Beijing through:

(1)

Boiler conversion 

Conversion or replacement of medium-sized coal-fired boilers to or 

with gas-fired boilers.

(2)

Technical capacity and market development

(a) Development of efficient models of gas-fired boiler equipment 

configurations, installation and maintenance; (b) development of industry 
capacity for provision of gas-fired boiler assembly, installation and 
maintenance services; and (c) development of markets for gas-fired 

boilers, all through the provision of consultants’ services, training and 
equipment.

(3)

Heating energy conservation

(a) Establishment of best practice models and standards for energy 

efficient heat generation, for heat distribution and operation of 
associated heat supply systems and for promotion of energy conservation 
by end-users; (b) codification, dissemination and promotion of said 
models and standards; and (c) strengthening of institutional capacity to 
carry out foregoing activities, all through the provision of consultants’ 
services, training and equipment.

(4)

Air quality monitoring and management

(a) Enhancement of institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate 

air quality through upgrading and expansion of monitoring stations and 
analytical equipment; and (b) improvement of institutional capacity to 
manage air quality through provision of consultants’ services, training 
and equipment. 

Part B:

Wastewater Management

Improving water quality through:

(1)

Liangshui River Basin

Construction of three secondary wastewater treatment facilities and 

associated sewage collection networks, including about 48 kilometers of 
interceptor sewers in the Liangshui River Basin.

 (2)

Qing River Basin. 

Construction of a sewage collection network, including about 26 
kilometers of interceptor sewers and siphons, in the Qing River Basin. 

Part C:

Institutional Strengthening

Developing and strengthening institutional wastewater management 

capability and capacity to operate on an autonomous basis, through 
provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment.

Part D:

Resettlement 

Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection 

with the carrying out of Part B of the Project.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.

*  *  *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

 Payment of Principal
(expressed in Dollars)*

February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010
February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 15, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
February 15, 2018
August 15, 2018                                        15,770,000
February 15, 2019
August 15, 2019                                        16,835,000
February 15, 2020
August 15, 2020                                        17,965,000

 6,950,000
 7,185,000
 7,425,000
 7,670,000
 7,925,000
 8,190,000
 8,460,000
 8,745,000
 9,035,000
 9,335,000
 9,645,000
 9,970,000
       10,300,000
10,645,000
       10,995,000
11,365,000
       11,740,000
12,135,000
       12,535,000
12,955,000
       13,385,000
13,830,000
       14,290,000
14,770,000
       15,260,000

       16,295,000

       17,395,000

_____________________________

*
repaid, except as provided 
Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 

in Section 4.04(d) of the General 

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and 

(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 

respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 

to $18,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000.

2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 

3.
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 

shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)
Borrower shall furnish to the 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
shall specify.

For replenishment of the Special Account, the 

Bank requests for deposits 

Bank 

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 

Borrower shall furnish to 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 

the Bank the documents and other 

this Schedule 

requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 

behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 

such amount as the 

deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

Bank from the Loan 

Account for eligible expenditures. All such 

documents and other evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 

4.
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 

5.
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 

further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 

within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 

of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 

the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

6.
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 

amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(c)

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) 

and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

