CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4530 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Smallholder Cattle Development Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated March 17, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4530 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 2000 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS:  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)  the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's Provinces of Anhui, 
Hebei, Henan and Shanxi (collectively, the Project Provinces and individually, a 
Project Province) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to each Project Province the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Project Provinces;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this 
Agreement:

(a)

“Agricultural Bank of China” means the Agricultural Bank of China 

established under the laws of the Borrower and operating pursuant to the Circular of 
the Borrower’s State Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, 
dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document No. (1979) 56) as such circular may be 
replaced from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Law of the 
Borrower.

(b)

“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of:  (i) Anhui, the amount of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1); (ii) Hebei, the amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (2); (iii) Henan, the amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (3); and (iv) Shanxi, the amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (4).

(c)
thereto. 

“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any successor 

(d)

“Beneficiary” means an individual or a group of individuals, a household 

or group of households or an enterprise to which a Project Province proposes to make 
or has made a Sub-loan.

(e)

“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 

1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.

(f)

“Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan” means the Environmental 

Management and Monitoring Plan for the Project prepared by the Borrower’s China 
Agricultural University and dated July 1999, as the same may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank.

(g)

“Hebei” means the Borrower’s Province of Hebei, and any successor 

(h)

“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan, and any successor 

(i)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 

Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

(j)

“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Anhui, Hebei, Henan and Shanxi; 

and “Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces.

“Renminbi” means the lawful currency of the Borrower.

Province, the activities to be carried out by said Project Province under the Project.

“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project 

(m)

“Shanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shanxi, and any successor 

(n)

“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the four accounts referred to in 

Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; "Special Account" means any of the Special 
Accounts; "Anhui Special Account" means the Special Account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement; "Hebei Special Account" means the Special Account 
referred to in Section 2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement; "Henan Special Account" means 
the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement; and "Shanxi 
Special Account" means the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02(b)(iv) of this 
Agreement. 

thereto.

thereto.

(k)

(l)

thereto.

(o)

“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Project Province 

out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project under Part B(1), 
B(2), B(3), C(1) or C(2) of the Project.

(p) 

“Sub-project” means a specific investment project selected for financing 
under Part B(1), B(2), B(3), C(1) or C(2) of the Project in accordance with paragraph 
8 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ninety-three 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($93,500,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars the following four special 

deposit accounts, each in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment:  (i) one for the purposes of Anhui’s Respective Part of the 
Project; (ii) one for the purposes of Hebei’s Respective Part of the Project; (iii) 
one for the purposes of Henan’s Respective Part of the Project; and (iv) one for the 
purposes of Shanxi’s Respective Part of the Project.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 

nine hundred thirty-five thousand Dollars ($935,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this 
occurring 
from and including an 
next following Interest Payment 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 

Date.

of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 

interbank 
value the first day of such 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
per annum.

Interest Period (or, in the case of the 

Interest Payment Date occurring 

Interest Period), as 

percentage 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 

(A) three-fourths of one 
weighted average margin, for such 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 

Interest Period, below (or above) 
reference rates, for 

borrowings or 

loans 

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on  February 15 and August 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause each Project Province to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of said Project Province therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each 
Project Province to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its respective 

Allocated Amount on the following principal terms: 

(i)
amount withdrawn 
Account, on account of the 
required for such Project Province’s 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 

The principal amount so made available shall be equal to the 

from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special 

cost of goods, works and services 

Respective Part of the 

Loan;

available to it 
grace period of five (5) 

years; and

(ii)

Each Project Province shall repay the principal amount so made 

over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a 

(iii) The Borrower shall charge each Project Province:  (A) interest on 

principal amount so made available and withdrawn and 

the 
remaining unpaid from 
of interest applicable from time to 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (B) a 
the principal amount so made available and not withdrawn 
time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
annum.

time to time at a rate equal to the rate 
time to the Loan pursuant to 

commitment charge on 

from time to 

per 

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 

of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Province in respect of its Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement.

Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall at all times continue to maintain, with terms 

of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, a central project 
management office to be responsible for overall Project coordination among the Project 
Provinces, including in respect of procurement, training, study tours and Project 
monitoring, evaluation and reporting. 

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
retained until at least one 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
year after the Bank has received the 

the last withdrawal from 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

this Section 
audited, in accordance 
consistently applied, by independent 
Bank;

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 

and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 

with appropriate auditing principles 

auditors acceptable to the 

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six 
such audit by said 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
by said auditors as to whether the 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
to support the related withdrawals; and

months after the end of each such year the report of 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
requested, including a separate opinion 
statements of expenditure 

procedures and 

upon 

and 
to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified :

(a)

Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 

under the Project Agreement.

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon such 
Project Province in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address: 

Telex:

FINANMIN
Beijing

22486 MFPRC CN

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang 

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Authorized Representative

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

(1)  Anhui:

      (a)
      (b)

Works
Goods (other than
livestock)

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
   in Dollars)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

   6,200,000

40%

   3,900,000) 
     ) 
     ) 
     )

100% of foreign  
expenditures; 100% 
of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 50% of  

     ) 

local expenditures for 

      (c)

Livestock

     ) 
  13,080,000)

goods procured locally
60%

other   

      (d)

(2)  Hebei:

(a)

(b)

Consultants’ services,
training and
study tours

     580,000

Works

   5,490,000

Goods (other than
livestock)

   6,420,000) 
     ) 
     )
     ) 
     )
     ) 
     ) 

100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of  
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 50% of
local expenditures for  
other goods procured  
locally

      (c)

Livestock

 10,650,000

      (d)

(3)  Henan:

Consultants’ services,
training and
study tours

    705,000

(a)

Works

  5,840,000

100%

45%

60%

100%

45%

(b)

Goods (other than
livestock)

  6,070,000) 

    )
    )
    ) 
    )
    ) 
    ) 

100% of foreign  
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 50% of
local expenditures for  
other goods procured  
locally

(c)

(d)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(4)

Shanxi

Livestock

11,220,000

Consultants’ services,
training and
study tours

   630,000

Works

 6,280,000

Goods (other than
livestock)

Livestock

7,650,000

Consultants’ services,
training and
study tours

1,160,000

(5)

Front-end Fee

TOTAL

      93,500,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

 6,690,000) 
          )
   )
   )
   ) 
   )
   ) 
   )

100% of foreign  
expenditures; 
100% of local ex-
penditures 
(ex-factory cost); and 
50% of local expenditures
for other goods procured  
locally

60%

100%

60%

60%

100%

Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of 
the Loan Agreement

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from that region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,330,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1999.

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $400,000 equivalent each (other than those referred to in Part D.2(c) of 
Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement); (b) goods under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts (i) with 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each and (ii) with individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training and study tours, 
regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 

specify by notice to the Borrower. 

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in developing its beef 

cattle sub-sector in the Project Provinces by increasing cattle production in farming 
areas and improving the quality and marketability of small-holder cattle production in 
order to enhance farmers’ income and reduce poverty.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

A.

Cattle Breeding and Feed Improvement

(1)

Breed Improvement.  

Carrying out of a program to improve cattle breeds, consisting of the following 

activities: (a) upgrading and expansion of bull holding facilities, frozen semen 
production and embryo transfer facilities by Anhui and Henan; (b) importation of 
cattle for crossbreeding by Anhui and Shanxi; (c) development and implementation of 
programs to ensure the continued upgrading of indigenous cattle breeds by Henan and 
Shanxi; and (d) development and implementation of cross-breeding strategies by each 
Project Province.

Carrying out by Shanxi of a program to improve cattle mineral production through 

the construction and equipping of a mineral block plant. 

(2)

Feed Improvement.  

B.

Cattle Production

Carrying out by each Project Province of a program to increase cattle production 

and productivity, said program to consist of the following activities:

(1)

Household-based Cattle Breeding Sub-loans.  

Provision of loans to selected households to finance specific projects that 
promote household-based cattle breeding and production to increase income of rural 
households.

(2)

Household-based Cattle Fattening Sub-loans.  

Provision of loans to selected households to finance specific projects that 

promote household-based cattle fattening to increase farm income of rural households.

(3)

Feedlot Production Sub-loans.  

Provision of loans to selected (a) households, and (b) enterprises to finance 

specific projects for the expansion and upgrading of village feedlots, using 
environmentally-compatible techniques, to produce quality cattle for slaughter.

C.

Market Development

Carrying out by each Project Province of a program to develop cattle and beef 

markets, consisting of the following activities:

(1)

Live-cattle Market Sub-loans.  

Provision of loans to selected commercial enterprises to finance specific 

projects for the upgrading and expansion of live-cattle markets.

(2)

Cattle Slaughtering and Processing Sub-loans.  

Provision of loans to selected commercial enterprises to finance specific 

projects for construction and upgrading of cattle slaughtering and processing 
facilities. 

(3)

Market Information; Quality Assurance.  

Establishment of market information systems and beef grading and quality 

assurance, food safety and meat inspection programs. 

D.

Institutional Strengthening

(1)

Cattle Production Support Services.  

Carrying out by each Project Province of programs to improve support services 

for cattle producers participating in Part B of the Project through the:

(a)

expansion and upgrading of animal husbandry and veterinary stations and 
cattle breeding and artificial insemination facilities and introduction of a suitable 
system of fees for services provided by said stations and facilities, in each case so 
as to improve the quality and delivery of breeding and veterinary services to cattle 
producers;

(b)

development of a cattle recording system to track the cattle production 

process from the breeding stage to the processing stage; and

(c)

establishment of a quality-based differential beef pricing system.

(2)

Participant Training.  

Enhancement of Project implementation capabilities through the provision of 

training by each Project Province to Sub-project Beneficiaries as well as to technical 
staff of animal husbandry bureaus and breeding stations.

(3)

Research and Development.  

Carrying out by each Project Province of a program of research and development 

related to cattle production, including genetic improvement, feeds and forages, 
feedlot performance, reproductive efficiency and crossbreeding.

(4)

Project Management.  

Strengthening of the capabilities of the Project Provinces in project management 

through the upgrading of equipment and facilities of each Project Province’s Project 
management offices and provision of technical assistance and training to the staff 
thereof.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.

*      *      *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due  

Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)*

August 15, 2005
February 15, 2006
August 15, 2006
February 15, 2007
August 15, 2007
February 15, 2008
August 15, 2008
February 15, 2009
August 15, 2009
February 15, 2010
August 15, 2010

1,955,000 
2,015,000 
2,080,000 
2,140,000 
2,205,000 
2,270,000 
2,340,000 
2,410,000 
2,485,000 
2,560,000 
2,635,000 

February 15, 2011
August 15, 2011
February 12, 2012
August 15, 2012
February 15, 2013
August 15, 2013
February 15, 2014
August 15, 2014
February 15, 2015
August 15, 2015
February 15, 2016
August 15, 2016
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
February 15, 2018
August 15, 2018
February 15, 2019
August 15, 2019
February 15, 2020

2,715,000 
2,800,000 
2,885,000 
2,970,000 
3,060,000 
3,155,000 
3,250,000 
3,345,000 
3,450,000 
3,550,000 
3,660,000 
3,770,000 
3,885,000 
4,000,000 
4,125,000 
4,250,000 
4,375,000 
4,510,000 
4,650,000

________________________

*
as provided  in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

SCHEDULE 4

Special Accounts

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means:  (i) in respect of the Anhui 

Special Account, Category (1); (ii) in respect of the Hebei Special Account, Category 
(2); (iii) in respect of the Henan Special Account, Category (3); and (iv) in respect 
of the Shanxi Special Account, Category (4).

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  

(i)

in respect of the Anhui Special Account, an amount equivalent to 

$2,000,000 to 
the Special Account 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Anhui 
Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Anhui’s 

pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 

be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 

the Bank shall otherwise 

Special 

eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 

commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Anhui’s Respective 

Part of 
Conditions shall be equal 

the Project, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 

to or exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000;

(ii)

in respect of the Hebei Special Account, an amount equivalent to 

$2,000,000 to 
the Special Account 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Hebei 
Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Hebei’s 

pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 

be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 

the Bank shall otherwise 

Special 

eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 

commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Hebei’s Respective 

Part of 
Conditions shall be equal 

the Project pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 

to or exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000;

(iii) in respect of the Henan Special Account, an amount equivalent to 

$2,000,000 to 
the Special Account 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Henan 
Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Henan’s 

pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 

be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 

the Bank shall otherwise 

Special 

eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 

commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Henan’s Respective 

Part of 
Conditions shall be equal 

the Project pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 

to or exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000; and

(iv)

in respect of the Shanxi Special Account, an amount equivalent to 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 

$2,000,000 
Special Account 
provided, however, that unless 
Authorized Allocation for the Shanxi 
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 until 
of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of Shanxi’s Respective Part of 

pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 

the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 

the aggregate amount 
Shanxi's 

Special Account shall be 

the Project pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal 

to or exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for said Special 
Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 

Bank shall specify.

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 

furnish to 
to paragraph 4 of 
of which replenishment is 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
and deposit into the Special Account 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
by said documents and 

Account for 

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 

documents and other evidence.

4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 

accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of the Loan Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories for a Project Province’s Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of said Project 
Province’s Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation 
for said Special Account.  

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 

6.
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Loan Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.

