CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4529 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Tongbai Pumped Storage Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated June 5, 2000

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4529 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 2000, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 

and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

(B)

the Project will be carried out by Zhejiang Provincial Electric 

Power Company (ZPEPC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ZPEPC the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement;

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 

to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and ZPEPC;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

(a)

Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:

states of the 
accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
the Treaty on European Union.”;

“Euro', '€' and 'EUR' each means the lawful currency of the member 

European Union that adopt the single currency in 

European Community, as amended by 

(b)

a new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 as follows:

“(d)

If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full 

amount then due and 
have the right to allocate and apply 
for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as the 
discretion determine.”; and

payable to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall 
the amount so received in any manner and 

Bank shall in its sole 

(c)

Section 11.01 is modified by replacing in the second sentence, the 
word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end 
of said Section to read:

by mail.”.

“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed 

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 

defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used 
herein:

(a)

“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of 

the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and 
“Affected Persons” means collectively all persons who qualify as  an Affected 
Person.

(b)

“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management 

plans dated March 1999 in respect of Part A of the Project and October 1998 in 
respect of Part B of the Project, prepared by ZPEPC for the monitoring and 
mitigation of the environmental impact of the Project, as said plan may be 
supplemented or modified from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.

(c)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and ZPEPC 

of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement.

(d)

“Resettlement Action Plan”, means the plans, acceptable to the 

Bank, dated January 1999, for the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of Affected Persons in respect of Parts A and B of the Project as said 
resettlement plans may be supplemented and amended from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank.

(e)
of this Agreement.

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 

(f)

"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 

between the Borrower and ZPEPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

(g)
successor thereto.

“Zhejiang” means the Borrower’s province of Zhejiang, and any 

(h)

"ZPEPC" means Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company, a 

corporation established and existing under the laws of the Borrower in 
accordance with: (i) Business License No. 3300001002345, dated October 15, 1990, 
issued by Zhejiang Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau; and (ii) the 
ZPEPC Charter.

(i)

"ZPEPC Charter" means the charter of ZPEPC, dated March 30, 1990, 

as amended to the date of this Agreement.

Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 

implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ZPEPC.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
three hundred twenty million Dollars ($320,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

(b) 

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 

maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal 

to three million two hundred thousand Dollars ($3,200,000).  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 

the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 

of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

including the date of this 

Agreement to, but excluding, the 

(i)

"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 

first Interest Payment Date occurring 
and after the initial period, each period from and including an 

thereafter, 

Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest 

Payment 

Date.

2.07 of this 

Agreement.

(ii)

"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 

2.07 of this 

Agreement.

(iii) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 

(iv)

"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 

three-fourths of one 
the weighted average margin, for such 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 

percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
Interest Period, below (or 

borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the 

determined by the Bank and 

currency 
Loan; as reasonably 
expressed as a percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 

March 15 and September 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Loan Agreement, shall cause ZPEPC to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ZPEPC therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable ZPEPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to ZPEPC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ZPEPC (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank.  Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and 

conditions shall include the following: 

by ZPEPC in 
exceeding twenty (20) years, 
five (5) years;

(i)

the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid 

Dollars to the Borrower over a period not 

including a grace period of 

(ii)

the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by 
equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the 

repayment) of the value of 

ZPEPC shall be the 
date, or respective dates, of 
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan 
Account; and

(iii) the subsidiary loan shall be charged: (A) interest on the 

amount thereof 
time, at a rate equal to the rate 
Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of this 

withdrawn and outstanding from time to 

payable by the 

Agreement; and (B) a commitment charge on the principal amount thereof not 

withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three 

fourths of one percent 

(3/4 of 1%) per annum.

(c)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 

Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 

goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 

and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 

furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations 

set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
in respect of the Project shall be carried out by ZPEPC pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the 
Borrower shall:

accounting 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

practices, records and accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and 
are retained until at least one 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and

other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
year after the Bank has received 

the last 

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 

including those for the Special Account 

accordance with appropriate 

(i) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 

not later than six 
report of such audit by said 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 

months after the end of each such year the 

auditors, of such scope and 

statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 

together with the 
their preparation, can be relied 
withdrawals; and

procedures and internal controls involved in 

upon to support the related 

records and 
shall from time to time reasonably 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 

accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 

request.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Project Agreement.

ZPEPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 

Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that ZPEPC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition 

to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ZPEPC.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in 

the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

(a)

that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 

ZPEPC, and is legally binding upon ZPEPC in accordance with its terms; and

(b)

that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 

ratified by the Borrower and ZPEPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ZPEPC in accordance with its terms.

Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 

Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

Cable address: 

  Telex:

Facsimile:

FINAMIN
Beijing

22486 MFPRC CN

8610-6855-1125

For the Bank:

International Bank for Reconstruction 
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

Facsimile:

202-477-6391

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of  China, as of the day and year 
first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Zhu Guangyao

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 

Authorized Representative

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 

1.
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:

Amount of the Loan
   Allocated
 (Expressed in
    Dollars)

   % of
Expenditures
to be Financed

Category

(1)

Goods

expenditures

(2)

Consultants’ services

(a)

(b)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)

(b)

Under Part A 
of the Project

Under Part B 
of the Project

Under Part A of
the Project

Under Part B of
the Project

Under Part C of
the Project

Under Part A of
the Project

Under Part B of
the Project

   180,000,000

    78,000,000

     7,200,000

     2,000,000

     7,500,000

     1,200,000

     2,500,000

(3)

Training

100%

100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local 

(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally

100%

(4)

Fee

     3,200,000

Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement

(5)

Unallocated

    38,400,000

TOTAL

          320,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 

of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided, 
however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said 
region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and

(b)

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 

the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 

3.
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (2) and 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1999.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 

4.
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent each; (b) consulting services 
under contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) consulting services under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, 
regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase peaking capacity and 

improve load following capability and power quality in the power system of 
Zhejiang and the Borrower’s provinces of Anhui and Jiangsu and municipality of 
Shanghai; and (b) improve operating and investment efficiency in power 
generation through the development and implementation of a competitive 
generation market in Zhejiang.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:

Part A:

Tongbai Pumped Storage Plant

Construction of a pumped storage hydroelectric power plant on the Tongbai 

and Baizhang Rivers in Zhejiang, together with a lower reservoir and an 
underground powerhouse and water conveyance system.

Part B:

Transmission and Distribution

Expansion and reinforcement of the transmission network in Zhejiang 

through:

1.
each with a capacity of 750 megavolt amperes (MVA);

construction of two 500 kilovolt (kV) substations at Xiaoshan and Yongxi, 

expansion of existing 500kV substations at Ningbo and Wenzhou by 1000 MVA 

2.
each and the erection of a 500kV transmission line of approximately 275 
kilometers (km) between said substations; 

3.
erection of twin 500kV transmission lines of approximately 110 km 
connecting the Tongbai pumped storage plant to the 500kV grid at Zhuji and the 

construction of a 500kV substation with a capacity of 750MVA at Zhuji; 

4.
substations at Zhuji, Yongxi and Xiaoshan to existing transmission lines;

erection of three short 500kV double-circuit transmission lines connecting 

5.
and development of customer service centers in Zhejiang; and

implementation of distribution management systems in Hangzhou and Ningbo 

6.
automation equipment.

supply and installation of associated telecommunication and dispatch 

Part C:

Power Sector Reform Strategy and Implementation Plan

Development and implementation of a program of power market development 

and sector restructuring in Zhejiang through:

1.

implementation of a competitive power generation market in Zhejiang;

restructuring of ZPEPC with a view to separating generation from 

2.
transmission functions, including the incorporation of power generation entities 
in Zhejiang as limited liability companies;

consolidation of decentralized and fragmented distribution operations into 

3.
county-level distribution entities and the subsequent incorporation of said 
entities as limited liability companies;

4.
of a provincial regulatory authority in Zhejiang;

development and implementation of a regulatory framework and establishment 

5.
planning system in ZPEPC;

implementation of an office automation system and an enterprise resource 

6.
program of power sector customer relations in Zhejiang; and

carrying out of a study of and preparation of recommendations for a 

carrying out of studies of: (a) generation planning and retail tariff 

7.
design; and (b) introduction of a conditional maintenance program into the 
Zhejiang power system; and

carrying out of a program of training for selected staff of ZPEPC in 

8.
business administration, corporate governance, conditional maintenance, power 
market management; distribution management; power station technical and 
commercial operation and utility management.

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

September 15, 2005
March 15, 2006
September 15, 2006
March 15, 2007

Payment of Principal
(expressed in Dollars)*

 6,700,000
 6,900,000
 7,110,000
 7,325,000

September 15, 2007
March 15, 2008
September 15, 2008
March 15, 2009
September 15, 2009
March 15, 2010
September 15, 2010
March 15, 2011
September 15, 2011
March 15, 2012
September 15, 2012
March 15, 2013
September 15, 2013
March 15, 2014
September 15, 2014
March 15, 2015
September 15, 2015
March 15, 2016
September 15, 2016
March 15, 2017
September 15, 2017
March 15, 2018
September 15, 2018
March 15, 2019
September 15, 2019
March 15, 2020

___________________

 7,545,000
 7,775,000
 8,010,000
 8,255,000
 8,505,000
 8,760,000
 9,025,000
 9,300,000
 9,580,000
 9,870,000
10,165,000
10,475,000
10,790,000
11,120,000
11,455,000
11,800,000
12,160,000
12,525,000
12,905,000
13,295,000
13,695,000
14,110,000
14,540,000
14,980,000
15,430,000
15,895,000

*
except as provided  in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) 

set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 

the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to 

$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $14,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $140,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 

3.
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 

follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)
furnish to the 
Account at such intervals as the 

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Bank shall specify.

(ii)
shall furnish to 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 

the Bank the documents and other evidence 
this Schedule for the 

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 

requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 

Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 

the 
the Special Account 
requested and as shall have been shown 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 

such amount as the Borrower shall have 

by said documents and other 

Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 

Categories, and in 
have been justified by said 
evidence.

the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 

documents and other 

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 

4.
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 

the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 

eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 

be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 

6.
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 

outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 

or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.

