CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4559 IN

Loan Agreement

(Third National Highways Project)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated  August 11, 2000

LOAN NUMBER 4559 IN

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2000, between INDIA 

acting by its President (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied 
itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by the 
National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to NHAI, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter 

alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and NHAI (the Project 
Agreement).

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 

follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable 

to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency 
Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999).

Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Eligible Categories” means categories 

(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

(b)

“Eligible Expenditures” means the 

expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(c)

“Environmental Management Plan” means 

NHAI’s plan incorporated in the Consolidated 
Environment Impact Assessment Report, dated March 
2000, satisfactory to the Bank, describing measures 
for mitigating the potential environmental impact of 
the Project, as the same may be updated from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank;

(d)

“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal 

year of the Borrower, which begins on April 1 of a 
calendar year and ends on March 31 of the following 
calendar year;

(e)

“NHAI” means the National Highways 

Authority of India, constituted and existing under the 
Borrower’s National Highways Authority of India Act, 
1988, or any successor thereto;

(f)

“PCC” means each and any of the Project 
Coordinating Committees referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;

(g)

“Project Management Report” means each 

report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement; 

(h)

“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means 

NHAI’s action plan, incorporated in the Consolidated 
Resettlement Action Plan Report dated March 2000 and  
approved by NHAI’s Board on April 28, 2000, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for acquiring land required 
for the purposes of the Project and resettling and/or 
rehabilitating persons affected by such acquisition, 

as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; and 

(i)

“Special Account” means the account 

referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the 
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five 
hundred sixteen million dollars ($516,000,000).

Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be 

withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 

2006, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. 
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank 

a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the 
amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank 

a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay 
interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR 
Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the 

initial period from and including the date of this 

Agreement to, but excluding, the first 

Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment 

Interest 

Date.

date specified in Section 2.07 of this 

(ii)

“Interest Payment Date” means any 

Agreement.

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each 

Interest Period, the London interbank 

offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 

for value the first day of such 

Interest 

Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first 
day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

Interest 

percentage per annum.

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for 

each Interest Period: 

(A) three-fourths of one percent 

(3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 

average margin, for such Interest Period, below 

(or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in 
respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
the Bank to fund single 
allocated by 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 

include the Loan; as reasonably 

determined by the Bank and expressed as a 

percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of 

LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market 
practice affecting the determination of the interest 
rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers 
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may 
modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall 
be payable semiannually in arrears on February 15 and 
August 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the 

principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its 

commitment to the objectives of the Project, and, to 
this end, without any limitation or restriction upon 
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause NHAI to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of NHAI therein set forth, shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable NHAI to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 

taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.

(b)

The Borrower shall make the proceeds of 

the Loan available to NHAI in accordance with the 
Borrower’s standard arrangements for providing 
developmental assistance through central ministries.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 

agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby 

agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall 
be carried out by NHAI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained 

in accordance with sound accounting 

practices, records and separate accounts 

reflecting such expenditures;

(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 

(ii)

ensure that all records 

other documents) evidencing such 

expenditures are retained until at least one 

year after the Bank has received the audit 

report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
and

to examine such records.

(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives 

(b)

The Borrower shall:

referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 

(i)

have the records and accounts 

and those for the Special Account for 

each fiscal year audited, in accordance 

with appropriate auditing principles 

consistently applied, by independent 

auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as 

available, but in any case not later than six 

months after the end of each such year the 

report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 

requested, 

whether the 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during 
such 
procedures and internal controls involved in 

fiscal year, together with the 

Project Management 

their preparation, can be relied upon to support 

the related withdrawals; and

information concerning said records and 

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other 

accounts and the audit thereof as the 

Bank shall from time to time reasonably 

request.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after 

the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional 

Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary 
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic 
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are 

specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi - 110001, India

Telex:

Cable address:

ECOFAIRS

New Delhi

953-31-66175 FINE IN

953-31-61430 FINE IN

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Telex:

Cable address:

248423 (MCI) or

64145 (MCI)

INTBAFRAD

Washington, D.C.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 

through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.

INDIA

By /s/ R. S. Sharma

Authorized Representative

DEVELOPMENT

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND 

By /s/ Edwin Lim

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

A.

General

The table below sets forth the Categories of 

1.
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:

Expenditures

Financed

Category

(Expressed in Dollars) to be 

Amount of the
Loan Allocated

   % of

(1)

Civil works

  452,920,000

80%

      720,000

100% of 

(2)
foreign

Equipment 

expenditures,

local

expenditures

(ex-factory cost) and

local expend-

for other items

locally

100% of 

80% of 

itures 

procured 

(3)

Consultants’ services  44,200,000
and training

100%

(4)
Fee
due under

2.04 of

Agreement

   5,160,000

Amount 

Section 

this 

(5)

Unallocated

  13,000,000

TOTAL

 516,000,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means 

expenditures in the currency of any country other than 
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means 

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 

3.
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after February 15, 2000.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan 

4.
Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under 
contracts costing less than $10,000,000 equivalent 
each; (b) goods; (c) services under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for 
employment of individual consultants; and (d) 
training; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.

Special Account

The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars 

1.
a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of 
India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.

After the Bank has received evidence 

2.
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made 
as follows:

(a)

until the Bank shall have received: (i) 

the first Project Management Report referred to in 
Section 4.02(b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis 
of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to 
this Schedule 1; and

(b)

upon receipt by the Bank of a Project 

Management Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of the 
Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 

Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to 
this Schedule 1.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be 

3.
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of 

4.
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account:

(a)

if the Bank determines at any time that 

any Project Management Report does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 
4.02 of the Project Agreement;

(b)

if the Bank determines at any time that 

all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower 
directly from the Loan Account; or

(c)

if the Borrower shall have failed to 

furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account or (B) the records, accounts and financial 
statements reflecting expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure.

The Bank shall not be required to make further 
5.
deposits into the Special Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination.

(a)

If the Bank determines at any time that 

6.
any payment out of the Special Account was made for an 
expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank 
may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank determines at any time that 

any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not 
be required to cover payments for Eligible 

Expenditures during the six-month period following 
such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the 
Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to 

subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement.

Annex A to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term 
“Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$25,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$100,000,000.

Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 

2.
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized 

Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate 
do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.

(b)

For replenishment of the Special Account, 

the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of 
each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.

The Bank shall not be required to make further 

3.
deposits into the Special Account, once the total 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.

Annex B to SCHEDULE 1

Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by 

1.
notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into 
the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.

Each application for withdrawal from the Loan 

2.
Account for deposit into the Special Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.

3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal 
of an amount of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such report; provided, 
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report 
to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce 

transport constraints on economic activity and reduce 
transport costs; and (b) to improve institutional 
capabilities to manage road programs, assets and 
service. 

The Project consists of the following parts, 

subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Highway Upgrading

Widening and strengthening of about 475 km of 

1.
the national highways from 2 lanes to 4-6 lane divided 
carriage-ways, with service roads where required.

Carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plan 

2.
(RAP) through the provision of implementation support, 
training and monitoring.

Part B:
Improvement 

Corridor Management and Road Safety 

Carrying out of a maintenance works program, 
1.
with a view to introducing alternative contracting 
methods and strengthening maintenance management 
practices.

Carrying out of a program of minor improvements, 

2.
targeted specifically on supporting improved methods 
for reducing traffic delays and accidents.

Part C:

 Institutional Strengthening

Provision of technical assistance: (a) for 

1.
developing and implementing an institutional 
strengthening program for NHAI; (b) for developing a 
road information system; (c) for developing and 
strengthening 2 pilot Corridor Management Units, to be 
established within NHAI for the purposes of Part B.1 
of the Project; (d) for preparation of proposals for 
minor improvements for the purposes of Part B.2 of the 
Project; (e) for conducting a road safety policy 
study; and (f) for conducting other studies and 
meeting other needs.

Carrying out of training and staff development 

2.
programs for NHAI and other public, private and 
educational organizations, which have a role in 
achieving NHAI’s objectives in the road sector, 
including environment and resettlement training.

*

*

*

The Project is expected to be completed by 

December 31, 2005.

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal

Expressed in Dollars)*

Date Payment Due

             (

10,280,000

10,620,000

10,975,000

11,340,000

11,715,000

12,110,000

February 15, 2006

August 15, 2006

February 15, 2007

August 15, 2007

February 15, 2008

August 15, 2008

12,510,000

12,925,000

13,360,000

13,805,000

14,260,000

14,735,000

15,230,000

15,735,000

16,260,000

16,800,000

17,360,000

17,940,000

18,535,000

19,155,000

19,790,000

20,450,000

21,130,000

21,835,000

22,560,000

23,310,000

24,090,000

24,890,000

25,720,000

February 15, 2009

August 15, 2009

February 15, 2010

August 15, 2010

February 15, 2011

August 15, 2011

February 15, 2012

August 15, 2012

February 15, 2013

August 15, 2013

February 15, 2014

August 15, 2014

February 15, 2015

August 15, 2015

February 15, 2016

August 15, 2016

February 15, 2017

August 15, 2017

February 15, 2018

August 15, 2018

February 15, 2019

August 15, 2019

February 15, 2020

August 15, 2020

26,575,000
__________________________________

The figures in this column represent the amount 

*
in dollars to be repaid, except as provided 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

in 

