CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4590 CHA

Loan Agreement

(Urumqi Urban Transport Improvement Project)

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated February 9, 2001

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4590 CHA

AGREEMENT, dated  February 9, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 

Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 

priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

the Project will be carried out by the Municipality of  Urumqi (Urumqi), 
capital of the Borrower’s Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR), with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to Urumqi as 
set forth in this Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Urumqi (the 
Project Agreement);

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through  October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 

Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons.

(b)

“Category” means a category of items as set forth in the table in 

paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

(c)

“Environmental Action Plan” means the environmental action plan for the 

Project prepared by Xinjiang Environmental Assessment and Techniques Center, dated 
December 1999, as the same may be revised from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraph B (3) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

(d)

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Urumqi of 

even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 

(e)

“Regional Project Leading Group” is the inter-agency group established by 

XUAR to support implementation of the Project by maintaining coordination between 
national, regional and municipal entities on all matters related to the Project, and 
referred to in Paragraph A (2) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

(f)

“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Resettlement Action Plan for the 

Project, prepared by the Urumqi Urban Transport Improvement Project Executive Office, 
dated January 2000, as the same may be revised from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of Paragraph B (3) of  Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 

“Urumqi” means the Municipality of Urumqi, capital of XUAR, and any 

(g)
this Agreement.

(h)
successor thereto.

(i)

“UPTC” means Urumqi’s Public Transport Company, a company wholly-owned by 

Urumqi, and any successor thereto.

(j)

“UPTMO” means Urumqi’s Urban Passenger Transport Management Office, a 

unit  within Urumqi Municipal Government, and any successor thereto.

(k)
successor thereto.

“XUAR” means the Borrower’s Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region, and any 

Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 

implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Urumqi and to UPTC.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 

special deposit account in dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 

the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 

percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.

Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 

Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

(b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 

date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 

the first Interest Payment 

including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 

Interest Payment Date.

(ii)
of this Agreement.

“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 

(iii) “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 

interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 

in Dollars for value the 

the first day of such Interest Period), 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

as reasonably determined 

for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding 

(iv)

“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 

three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 

minus (or plus) the 

deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 

outstanding borrowings or 

interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 

thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined 

by the Bank and expressed as a 

percentage per annum.

(c)

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

(d)

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 

arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 

accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project, and, to this end shall cause Urumqi to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all of its respective obligations therein set 
forth, take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Urumqi to 
perform such obligations, and not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.

(b)

For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make 

available to Urumqi, through XUAR,  the proceeds of the Loan on the following 
principal terms:

(i)

the principal amount so made available to Urumqi shall be the 

equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined as 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account, 

of the date, or respective 

withdrawn or paid out on account of the 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be 

cost of items required for 

as the case may be) of the value of the currency or currencies so 

recovered by the Borrower in Dollars (the Loan Amount);

semi-annual installments over a period of 20 
grace period of 5 years;

(ii)

the Borrower shall recover the Loan Amount from Urumqi in 

years, inclusive of a 

(iii) the Borrower shall charge interest on the Loan Amount withdrawn 

and outstanding from time to time, at a 
exceed the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 of 

rate which shall not 

this Agreement; and

(iv)

the Borrower shall charge: (A) a commitment fee on the principal 

amount of the Loan so made available and 
time at a rate which shall not exceed three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per 

not withdrawn from time to 

annum; and (B) an additional fee in an amount equal to the amount payable 

by the Borrower pursuant to 

Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.

Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Urumqi in respect of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 

the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:

accounting practices, records and separate 
expenditures;

(i)

maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 

accounts reflecting such 

(ii)

ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 

receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 

expenditures are retained 

fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 

and

(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.

(b)

The Borrower shall:

(i)

have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 

this Section and those for the Special 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 

Account for each fiscal year 

applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 

later than six months after the end of each 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 

such year the report of 

have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said 

auditors as to whether the statements of 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 

expenditure submitted 

in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 

withdrawals; and

and accounts and the audit thereof as 
reasonably request.

(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
the Bank shall from time to time 

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional events are specified:

(a)
Project Agreement;

Urumqi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 

(b)

As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 

Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Urumqi will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 

meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Urumqi, and is legally binding upon Urumqi in 
accordance with its terms.

Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 

specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address: 

Telex:

Facsimile:

FINANMIN

22486 MFPRC CN

(86-10) 68 55 11 25

Cable address:

Telex:

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

(1- 202) 477-6391

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

By /s/ Zhu Guangyao

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

By /s/ Yukon Huang

Authorized Representative

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1. 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Category

 Amount of the Loan
     Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars)

% of Expenditures
to be Financed

(1)  Civil works

      69,800,000

48%

(2)  Goods       

      17,700,000

)100% of foreign
)expenditures
)100% of local
)expenditures
)(ex-factory cost); 
)and 75% of local
)expenditures for
)other items procured
)locally

)Amount due under 
)Section 2.04 of this
)Agreement

(3) Consultants’ services         
and Training   

       3,000,000

100%

(4)  Fee        

       1,000,000    

 TOTAL

     100,000,000

(5) Unallocated                                                                                                                                     

       8,500,000  

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 

(b)

the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 

expenditures.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $9,000,000 equivalent, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 31, 2000.

4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for:  (a) expenditures for works under contracts costing 
less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (b) expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) expenditures for consultants’ services 
under contracts awarded to firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) 
expenditures for consultants’ services under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) expenditures for 
training, regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist Urumqi in developing and managing a 

multi-modal urban transport system which will facilitate the safe, efficient and 
healthy movement of people and goods throughout its territory.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Road Network Improvement

Construction of a ring road so as to link the city center to new development 

1.
areas, protect the city center from unnecessary traffic, and distribute regional 
traffic to the urban trunk road network; and provision of road maintenance equipment, 
road traffic control and monitoring facilities required for such ring road, and 
implementation of environmental mitigation measures such as provision of noise 
barriers and mechanical ventilation facilities for households. 

Implementation of a program to further improve the road network, consisting of 

2.
of:  (a) additional road network improvements, including construction of additional 
road links, road widening, provision of traffic management and channelization 
facilities; and (b) development of one-way road pairs.

3.
(a) carrying out of studies to improve the road, bridge and drainage maintenance 

Carrying out of a program to improve road maintenance management, consisting of: 

management system and maintenance planning, to rationalize the use of funds for such 
maintenance and  to develop the information collection system; and (b) provision of 
equipment required for maintenance of non-ring roads, including information systems.

Part B:

Traffic Management and Road Safety

Carrying out of the following programs to enhance traffic management and improve 

road safety:

1.
facilities, and junction channelizations.

Installation of traffic signals, signs and lane markings, area traffic control 

2.
Implementation of a program to improve the pedestrian traffic system, consisting 
of provision of facilities to segregate pedestrian and vehicle traffic, development of 
combined non-motor vehicle and pedestrian facilities, downgrading of center city roads 
to facilitate pedestrian use of such roads, installation and improvement of pedestrian 
crossing facilities and footways.

Implementation of a program to improve the vehicle parking system, consisting 

3.
of: (a) carrying out of a study to establish a parking management policy and to 
investigate further investment for parking system improvement; and (b) improvement of 
signage for parking facilities.

Implementation of a road safety program consisting of:  (a) carrying out of a 

4.
study to analyze road accidents; (b) provision of equipment for such accident 
analysis, and equipment for an accident hotline and accident investigation; (c) 
development and introduction of a driver/vehicle information system; and (d) if and to 
the extent warranted on the basis of the results of said accident analysis study, 
development and implementation of remedial engineering measures to minimize road 
accidents, and of pilot road user education and traffic safety enforcement programs.  

Part C:

Public Transport

Development and carrying out of a program to improve the operating efficiency 

and service delivery of public transportation services, consisting of:

Carrying out of a program to reform UPTC through:  (a) a corporate planning and 

1.
reform study to improve the organization, management, operations and maintenance 
practices of UPTC, and develop a suitable structure and business plan,  including a 
program of capital investment; (b) implementation of a bus maintenance program, 
including provision of a vehicle diagnostics center, bus painting facility, laser 
engine reconditioning equipment and other maintenance equipment; (c) development and 
introduction of an information system for asset and maintenance management, accounting 
and financial reporting, and centralized vehicle scheduling and dispatch, including 
equipment required therefor; (d) development of a wireless communication system; and 
(e) construction of a communications and training center.

2.
(a)  Design and implementation of a pilot bus priority route scheme; (b) 
carrying out of studies on the current bus network, service capacity and public 
transport demand,  and on bus priority measures; and (c) on the basis of the results 
of such studies, development and implementation of measures to improve bus traffic, 
including (i) development of additional bus priority lanes, and (ii) construction of 
passenger transfer facilities.

Further formulation of policies for public transport reform and development 

3.
which are compatible with Urumqi’s environment and meet the needs of its populations, 
including in regard to fare structure and subsidies level, and for the establishment 
of a rational institutional framework for public transportation planning and 
management, including transformation of UPTMO into a regulatory and planning agency.

Part D:

Resettlement; Environmental Improvement

1.
living standards and production levels of all Affected Persons.

Carrying out of a resettlement program designed to maintain or improve the 

2.
landscaping within the right-of-way of the ring road constructed under the Project.

Carrying out of an urban landscaping program along the road network, including 

Further development and implementation of the motor vehicle emission control 

3.
strategy so as to mitigate air pollution resulting from increased vehicle use, 
including:  (a) establishment of a motor vehicle pollution study center and an air 
pollution automatic inspection system; (b) carrying out of a study on emission control 
technology and measurement; (c) development and strengthening of emission control 
standards; and (d) development and implementation of a public education campaign.

4.
that the Project is implemented in an environmentally sound manner.

Carrying out of an environmental action plan for the Project designed to ensure 

Part E:

Institutional Strengthening

Design and carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the 

institutions responsible for urban transport planning, policy making and system 
management, including:  

Establishment of: (a) an urban transportation sector leading group, (b) a 

1.
permanent technical expert group to provide support to such leading group, and (c) a 
transportation planning and research unit within Urumqi’s Construction Commission to 
undertake urban transport policy and planning studies, including provision of 
equipment for such unit. 

2. 
analysis and coordination of transport development and land use plans.

Carrying out of a transport network development study which includes multi-modal 

3.
skills of the personnel responsible for implementation of the Project. 

Development and implementation of training programs to enhance the professional 

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

July 15, 2006
January 15, 2007
July 15, 2007
January 15, 2008
July 15, 2008
January 15, 2009
July 15, 2009
January 15, 2010
July 15, 2010
January 15, 2011

Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Dollars)*

1,895,000
1,960,000
2,035,000
2,105,000
2,185,000
2,265,000
2,345,000
2,430,000
2,520,000
2,610,000

July 15, 2011
January 15, 2012
July 15, 2012
January 15, 2013
July 15, 2013
January 15, 2014
July 15, 2014
January 15, 2015
July 15,2015
January 15, 2016
July 15, 2016
January 15, 2017
July 15, 2017
January 15, 2018
July 15, 2018
January 15, 2019
July 15, 2019
January 15, 2020
July 15, 2020
January 15, 2021

2,705,000
2,805,000
2,905,000
3,015,000
3,125,000
3,235,000
3,355,000
3,475,000
3,605,000
3,735,000
3,870,000
4,010,000
4,155,000
4,310,000
4,465,000
4,625,000
4,795,000
4,970,000
5,150,000
5,340,000

___________________________

*
as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the 

The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 

General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3).

(b)

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 

to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
to the eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank in respect of the Project pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$40,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i)

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

the Special Account 

(ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 

furnish to the Bank the documents and 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 

other evidence required pursuant 

Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 

which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 

shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 

evidence to have been paid 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 

out of the Special Account for eligible 

the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 

been justified by said documents and other 

amounts, as shall have 
evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 

as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

