CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 4817-TU 

 

 

ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE PROGRAM 

Loan Agreement 

 

(TURKEY COMPONENT – SECOND TE(cid:0)A(cid:0)  PROJECT) 
 

T(cid:220)RK(cid:0)YE ELEKTR(cid:0)K (cid:0)LET(cid:0)M A.(cid:0) .

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated April 13, 2006  
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement dated April 13, 2006, between TÜRK(cid:0)YE ELEKTR(cid:0)K (cid:0)LET(cid:0)M A.(cid:0) .
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  twenty-five  million 
Euro  ((cid:226)125,000,000)(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 

 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 

2.06.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 

 

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

2

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as  the  Borrower,  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the 
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION 

4.01.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 

the date of this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the General Manager of the Borrower. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Türkiye Elektrik (cid:0)letim A.(cid:0) .
Genel Müdürl§(cid:0) § 
(cid:0)n¢nü Bulvarß No. 27 
Bahçelievler 
Ankara, Turkey 
 

Facsimile: 

(312) 222-8160 

 

 

 

 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 

Cable:   

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423 (MCI) or 
  64145 (MCI) 

(202) 477-6391 

3

AGREED in Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 

TÜRK(cid:0)YE ELEKTR(cid:0)K (cid:0)LET(cid:0)M A.(cid:0) .

By /s/ (cid:0)lhami (cid:135)z(cid:0)ahin 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink 

 

Director 
Turkey Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 

 

 

 
 

 

4

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  increase  safety,  reliability,  efficiency  and 
capacity of the bulk power transmission system in the Republic of Turkey and to improve 
market access for consumers and suppliers of electricity. 
 

The Project is part of the Energy Community of South East Europe Program and 

Construction  of  new  substations,  transmission  lines  and  underground  cables  to 

consists of the following parts: 
 
I. 

Transmission Network Strengthening

strengthen the transmission networks. 

 
Urban Transmission Network Upgrading

II. 

 

Construction of underground cables in densely populated urban areas. 

5

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Institutional and Other Arrangements

The  Borrower  shall  implement  the  FEAP  and  LAMF  and  shall  include  in  the 
quarterly progress reports to the Bank specific environmental reports and land acquisition 
reports, as required, providing results of any monitoring programs undertaken as part of 
the FEAP and the status of land acquisition under the Project. 
 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.

Project Reports 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

A. 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project  Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
2. 
execution  of  the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date. 
 
B. 
 
1. 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim  un-
audited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Section, the Borrower shall 
4. 
implement a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank to receive an audit opinion 
from the independent auditors for its financial statements starting in calendar year 2006. 
 

The Borrower shall have the enterprise resource planning program installed and 

6

5. 
functional by December 31, 2007. 
 
Section III. 

Procurement

A. 

General 

1. 
Goods (Including Supply and Installation).   All goods required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
B. 
 

Particular Method of Procurement of Goods  

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Goods  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 

awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

C. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 

Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General 

A. 
 
1. 
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions included in the Disbursement 
Letter, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 

7

 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 

Category 

(1) Goods (including supply 
 

and installation) 

124,687,500 

(2) Front-end Fee 

312,500 

 

 
 

 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 

100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 85% of other 
items procured locally 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

TOTAL  
 

125,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

B. 
 
1. 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement 
 
2. 
 
Section V. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 

Other Undertakings

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 

(a)  

1. 
Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall:  (i) 
produce,  for  each  of  its  fiscal  years,  funds  from  internal  sources  equivalent  to  not  less 
than 35% for the fiscal year 2006 and in each succeeding fiscal year of the Borrower’s 
capital  expenditures  during  the  fiscal  year  concerned;  (ii)  maintain,  beginning  with  the 
fiscal year 2006, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0; and (iii) 
ensure that the net revenues of the Borrower shall be at least 1.5 times in 2006 and each 
succeeding  fiscal  year,  the  estimated  maximum  debt  service  requirements  of  the 
Borrower for any such fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower. 
 

(b) 

If  any  fiscal  projections  show  that  the  Borrower  would  not  meet  the 
requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  for  the  Borrower’s  fiscal  years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all measures necessary on its 
part in order to meet such requirements. 
 

(c) 

For the purposes of this Section: 

8

(A) 

(B) 

(A) 

(B) 

(i) 

The  term  “funds  from  internal  sources”  means  the  difference 
between: 

customer 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to 
customer 
operations, 
contributions  in  aid  of  construction, net  non-operating 
income and any reduction in working capital other than 
cash; and 

deposits 

and 

the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to operations,  including  
administration,  license  fees,  adequate  maintenance  and 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision 
for  depreciation  and  other  non-cash  operating  charges 
and  income  taxes),  debt  service  requirements,  all  cash 
dividends  and  other  cash  outflows  other  than  capital 
expenditures,  increase  in  working  capital  other  than 
cash. 

(ii) 

The  term  “net  non-operating  income”  means  the  difference 
between: 

revenues  from  all  sources  other  than  those  related  to 
operations; and 

expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

The term “working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets, excluding cash, and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year. 

The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than  cash  which  could  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business  be 
converted  into  cash  within  twelve  (12)  months,  including 
accounts  receivable,  marketable  securities,  inventories  and 
prepaid  expenses  properly  chargeable  to  operating  expenses 
within the next fiscal year. 

The  term  “current  liabilities”  means  all  liabilities  which  will 
become  due  and  payable  or  could  under  circumstances  then 
existing  be  called  for  payment  within  twelve  (12)  months, 
including  accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  debt  service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9

(vi) 

(vii) 

The  term  “debt  service  requirements”  means  the  aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 

The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on  account  of  fixed  assets,  including  interest  charged  to 
construction, related to operations, averaged over a three (3) year 
period  covering  the  year  concerned  and  the  year  preceding  and 
the year succeeding such year. 

(viii)  The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the  ordinary  course  of  business  be  converted  into  cash  within 
twelve  (12)  months,  including  accounts  receivable,  marketable 
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 

(ix) 

The  term  “debt”  means  any  indebtedness  of  the  Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred. 

(x) 

The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 

(A) 

(B) 

the  sum  of  revenues  from  all  sources  related  to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 

the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to operations,  including  
license fees, administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision 
for  depreciation,  other  non-cash  operating  charges  and 
interest and other charges on debt. 

(xi)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another  currency,  such  valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of 
the  prevailing  lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which  such  other 
currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

Principal Payment Date

Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro∗)

On each March 15 and September 15 
beginning September 15, 2011 
through March 15, 2021 

 

 
6,250,000 
 

 

∗

The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 

11 

APPENDIX 

Definitions 
 
1. 

 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 

“Decree”  means  Decree  No.  2001/2026,  dated  February  5,  2001,  of
the 
Guarantor pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating. 

“Disbursement  Letter”  means  the  letter,  dated  as  of  the  same  date  of  this 
Agreement, including the additional instructions as referred to in Section IV A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be revised from time to time. 

“FEAP” means the Framework for Environmental Assessment Procedures, dated 
September  12,  2004  and  approved  by  the  Bank  describing  the  environmental 
issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the Project. 

“fiscal  year”  means  the  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower  starting  on  January  1  and 
ending on December 31 of each year. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

“LAMF”  means  the  Land  Acquisition  Management  Framework  dated  January 
18, 2006, and approved by the Bank describing the principles and procedures for 
the acquisition of land required for investments under the Project. 

“Procurement  Guidelines” means  the  “Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  January  24,  2006  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in  accordance  with 
the provisions of the said paragraph. 

“TE(cid:0)A(cid:0) (cid:218) means Türkiye Elektrik (cid:0)letim A.(cid:0) ., a joint stock company established 
and operating pursuant to Decree No. 2001/2026 dated February 5, 2001. 

