CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 4867-RU 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Second State Statistical System Development Project) 
 

RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated November 30, 2007 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  November  30,  2007,  between  RUSSIAN  FEDERATION 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  ten  million  dollars  ($10,000,000)  
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 

2.06.  The Payment Dates are May 15 November 15 in each year. 

 

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 

2

 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through Rosstat in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

The  Project  Implementation  Agreement,  or  any  provision  thereof,  shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a 
way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or 
the PIU to carry out the Project; and 

(b) 

The  PIU  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the 
Project Implementation Agreement. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following:  any  event 
specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  Section  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  and  is 
continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower, represented by the MOF and Rosstat, and the PIU. 

The  IACC  with  a  composition,  resources  and  terms  of  reference 
satisfactory to the Bank has been established by the Borrower. 

The  Project  Operational  Manual  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  has  been 
adopted by the Borrower. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c)  

 

5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 

3

The  Project  Implementation  Agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been 
executed between the Borrower, represented by the MOF and Rosstat, and the PIU and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the PIU in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
Ilyinka Street 9 
109097 Moscow  
Russian Federation 
 

 

 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

Telex:   

112008  

 

 

 

 

Facsimile: 

(7-095) 925-0889 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

4

AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

RUSSIAN FEDERATION 

By /s/ Vladimir L. Sokolin 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Klaus Rohland 

Authorized Representative 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

in 

line  with 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  the  government  to  produce  reliable, 
timely,  and  accurate  economic,  financial,  socio-demographic  and  other  data  for  policy 
formulation  and  decision-making 
international  good  practice  and 
frameworks.  This  will  be  done  through  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  National 
Statistical System. The project supports the implementation of the national development 
strategy to promote economic growth, to achieve ambitious social goals and targets, and 
to  ensure  significant  improvements  in  the  efficiency  of  federal  government  agency 
performance. The improved availability of comprehensive sets of macroeconomic, social, 
poverty-related and labor market indicators, with regional breakdowns, will contribute to 
the monitoring of policy implementation. 

 
The  Project  constitutes  phase  I-b  of  the  Program  and  consists  of  the  following 

parts: 
 
Component A: Modernization of economic statistics methodology

enhancement of the System of National Accounts; 

development of the methodological basis for the compilation of the basic 
Input-Output Tables; 

enhancement of price statistics; 

enhancement of trade statistics; and 

enhancement of enterprise statistics. 

 
Component B: Development of modern design and technology for statistical data 
collection, processing, and dissemination system

improve access to data through electronic and web-enabled technologies; 

development  of  a  modern  system  of  demographic  data  collection  and 
processing; 

development  of  a  system  for  collection,  analysis  and  dissemination  of 
household and population surveys data; 

improve integration of databases; 

(a) 
 
(b) 

 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 

(a) 
 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 
 

6

institutional  strengthening  of  Rosstat’s  information  technology  policy 
framework; 

review  and  improve  information  technology  security  planning  and 
requirements; 

development of Rosstat’s corporate computer and information system; 

development  of  data  collection  and  interagency  interaction  system  for 
monitoring  performance  of  budget  institutions  in  the  social  sphere, 
financial sphere and the real property sector; 

remote  collection  of  data  for  the  purposes  of  social  and  economic 
statistics; and 

preparation of strategic development proposals of Rosstat’s information 
technology systems. 

 
Component C: Enhancement of social statistics

strengthen statistics of population incomes, poverty and living standards, 
including modernization of the system of household sample surveys, and 
improvement of administrative data collection; 

develop  labor  market  statistics  and  propose  new  tasks  in  labor  force 
analysis to develop policies to support the labor market; and 

improve demographic statistics. 

 
Component D: Human resource development

analysis of the current retraining system and preparation of a strategy for 
its development; 

development of training programs and training materials; and 

provision of statistical training and knowledge sharing. 

 
Component E: Project management

provision of logistical and secretarial support to the IACC and financing 
of Operating Costs; and 

implementation  of  a  project  results  framework  and  monitoring  and 
evaluation of indicators. 

(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 
 
(h) 

 
(i) 

 
(j) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 
 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Institutional and Other Arrangements

1. 
At  all  times  during  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall 
maintain the IACC with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the PIU at all 
times  functions  in  a  manner,  and  with  staff,  consultants,  facilities  and  other  resources 
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, all satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through Rosstat and with the assistance of the PIU, shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and 
operational procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual and shall not assign, 
amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  provisions  of  the  Project  Operational  Manual  without  a 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation

Project Reports 

A. 
 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall maintain a financial management system in 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project  Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
 
1. 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
3. 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The first and final 
audit may cover a period up to eighteen (18) months. The audited Financial Statements 

8

for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end 
of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

1. 
Goods.   All goods required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 

2. 
Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods. The  following  table  specifies  the 
methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be 
used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 

Shopping 

Agreed procedures for training 

 
(a)  

(b)  

C. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
1. 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

9

2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 

Selection Based on Consultant’s 
Qualifications 
Selection of Individual Consultants
Least Cost Selection 

Single Source Selection 

 
(a) 
 
(b)  
(c)  

(d)  

Eligibility of State Owned Scientific, Research and Education Institutions 

3. 
Short lists for assignments to be procured under this Part C may, with the prior agreement 
of  the  Bank,  include  (in  case  of  Selection  Based  on  Consultant’s  Qualifications)  or  be 
entirely composed of (in case of Quality- and Cost-based Selection or Selection Based on 
Consultant’s  Qualifications),  suitable  state-owned  entities  (scientific,  research  and 
education  institutions,  including  entities  within  Rosstat  organizational  structure), 
provided that no entity can be included in a short list for any assignment if such an entity 
is the direct beneficiary of the outputs of the assignment. 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General.   

A. 
 
1. 
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional 
instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World 
Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to 
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such 
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 

10

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 

(1)  Goods  and  consultants’ 
services for the Project 
 
(2) Operating Costs 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 

9,380,000 

620,000 

10,000,000

 

 

20% 

20% 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   

B. 
 
1. 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
 
2. 
 

The Closing Date is August 25, 2012. 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

Principal Payment Date 

Principal Amount of the Loan 
Payable 
(Expressed in USD(cid:13)) 
 

On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2012  
through May 15, 2022 

 

 
500,000 

11

 

 
 

 

                                                 
∗  
provided in Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 

The figures in this column represent the amount in USD to be repaid, except as 

12

APPENDIX 

 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

 “Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

“IACC”  means the Inter-Agency Coordination Council to be established by the 
Borrower for the purposes of overall Project steering and coordination pursuant 
to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 

“MEDT”  means  the  Ministry  of  Economic  Development  and  Trade  of  the 
Borrower or any successor thereto. 

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto. 

“Operating  Costs”  means  incremental  operating  costs  incurred  by  the  PIU  on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including staff 
salaries  and  consultancy  costs,  social  charges,  training,  conferences  and 
seminars,  dissemination  of  Project  related  information,  office  rent  and  utilities, 
office  and  equipment  insurance,  maintenance  and  repair,  vehicle  maintenance 
and 
travel,  security,  communication,  bank  charges,  and  other 
miscellaneous  costs  directly  associated  with  the  Project,  all  based  on  periodic 
budgets acceptable to the Bank. 

repair, 

 “PIU” means an entity with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the  Bank  and  selected  by  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  day  to  day  Project 
management  and  implementation  and  which  is  the  party  to  the  Project 
Implementation Agreement. 

“Procurement  Guidelines” means  the  “Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  May  3,  2007  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 
 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 

 

13

“Program”  means  the  Statistical  Capacity  Building  Program  (STATCAP) 
designed  to  increase  access  to  assistance  to  strengthen  National  Statistical 
Systems and increase their capacity to produce more reliable, timely and accurate 
data and referenced in the letter dated February 7, 2005 from the Borrower to the 
Bank. 

“Project  Implementation  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into 
between  the  Borrower,  represented  by  the  MOF  and  Rosstat,  and  the  PIU 
pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 

“Project Operational Manual” means the project operational manual satisfactory 
to the Bank and to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement. 

“Rosstat” means the Federal Service of State Statistics of the Russian Federation, 
or any successor or successors thereto. 

“Training”  means  Project  related  study  tours,  training  courses,  seminars, 
workshops  and  other  training  activities,  not  included  under  goods  or  service 
providers’ contracts, including  costs  of training  materials, space  and equipment 
rental, travel, per diem costs of trainees and trainers and trainers’ fees. 

 

 

11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 

