CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7445-UR 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Promoting Innovation to Enhance Competitiveness Project) 
 

REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 21, 2007 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7445-UR 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated June  21, 2007,  between  REPÚBLICA  ORIENTAL  DEL  URUGUAY 
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

(“Borrower”) 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

and 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  twenty-six  million  Dollars  ($26,000,000),  as  such 
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  In the event that the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-
end  Fee,  the  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee  not  later  than  60  days  after  the 
Effective Date. 

 
2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest 
payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be 

- 2 -

determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

- 3 -

2.06.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Education and Culture (acting 
through the DICYT) in coordination with the GMI, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01. 

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that CND or the 
Borrower  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the 
Agency Agreement. 

 

 

 

 

- 4 -

4.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the following,  namely  that  the  event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

 

ARTICLE V — TERMINATION 

5.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 3, 2008. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089; Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable:   
 
MINECON 
 

Telex:   

 

 

 

 

Facsimile: 

269 MICECON UY, Montevideo Uruguay 

(598-2) 1712-2688 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI)    
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

- 5 -

AGREED  at  Montevideo,  República  Oriental  del  Uruguay,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 
written. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 

By /s/ Danilo Astori 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 

Authorized Representative 

- 6 -

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to generate, transfer 
and adapt knowledge and technology by supporting: (a) the institutional framework for STI; (b) 
investments in human capital and high-quality research teams; (c) technology transfer and private 
sector innovation; and (d) cross-sectoral and international research collaboration and mobility of 
researchers between public institutions and the productive sector. 
 

The  Project  consists  of  the  following  parts,  subject  to  modifications  thereof  as  the 

Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1:  Supporting STI Policies and Institutional Strengthening 

Supporting members of the GMI and the CONICYT or their delegates to develop policies 

(a) 
on STI by: 
 

carrying out analytical work for the formulation and updating of the Borrower’s 
national strategy for STI; 

supporting the consultation processes among key stakeholders in the Borrower’s 
national innovation system; 

(iii) 

disseminating the Borrower’s national strategy for STI; 

conducting  seminars  and  workshops  to  facilitate  the  coordination  of  the 
Borrower’s initiatives on STI; and 

facilitating  international  collaboration  and  exchange  of  best  practices  on  STI 
policies. 

Strengthening the ANII and supporting the DICYT and the GMI in the implementation of 

 
(b) 
the Project through:  

the provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment and software 
to facilitate their operation; 

the  development  of  management  information  systems  for  the  efficient  and 
transparent implementation of innovation programs;  

the  carrying  out  of  minor  works  to  adapt  existing  buildings  to  the  needs  of the 
ANII;  

(iv) 

the financing of travel costs associated with the implementation of the Project; 

(v) 

the  conduct  of  activities  for  the  dissemination  of  information  related  to  the 
functions of the ANII and the implementation of the Project; and 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

 
(i) 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 7 -

 
(c) 
 

(a) 
 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

(v) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

the financing of salaries of ANII staff and other operating expenditures which are 
necessary for the implementation of the Project. 

Establishing and providing ongoing support to the Observatory through:  

the provision of technical assistance and training to facilitate the operation of the 
Observatory;  

the  carrying  out  of  analytical  work  including  the  development  of  evaluation 
methodologies and the implementation of the same; 

the  conduct  of  activities  to  disseminate  studies  and  raise  awareness  among  the 
general public and the private sector; 

the  development  of  management 
aforementioned activities; and 

information  systems 

to  support 

the 

the  financing  of  salaries  of  Observatory  staff  and  other  operating  expenditures 
which are necessary for the implementation of the Project. 

Part 2:  Building Human Capital and High Quality Research Teams

Promoting excellence in science and technology research in priority areas by: 

providing grants to support, for a period of up to five years per grant, subprojects 
carried  out  by  multidisciplinary  research  teams  headed  by  a  full  time  principal 
researcher; 

providing  grants  to  support,  for  a  period  of  up  to  three  years  per  grant, 
subprojects  in  underdeveloped  areas  of  research  of  strategic  importance  to  the 
Borrower; 

providing grants to support, for a period of up to two years per grant, subprojects 
in  the  social sciences targeted  at  creating  research  capacities in  areas  related  to 
the development of STI policies; 

providing grants to support, for a period of up to 3 years per grant, science and 
technology subprojects targeted at improving the living conditions of low income 
families in Uruguay; and 

supporting reforms of the FNI to provide opportunities for young researchers and 
broaden  incentives  of  researchers  to  collaborate  with  the  productive  sector, 
through  the  conduct  of  workshops  and  training,  the  provision  of  technical 
assistance and the financing of travel.  

 
(b) 
Borrower and acceptable to the Bank by: 

Increasing  the  stock  of  advanced  human  capital  in  priority  areas  identified  by  the 

- 8 -

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(i) 
 
(ii) 

 
(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

awarding stipends to non-university tertiary and undergraduate students to work 
in high quality research environments in order to stimulate the supply of young 
researchers; 

awarding  scholarships  to  young  researchers  to  study  in  domestic  masters  and 
doctoral programs focused on developing research skills; 

awarding  scholarships  to  masters  and  doctoral  students  that  undertake  a 
substantial part of their thesis work in the productive sector;  

awarding  scholarships  for  the  insertion  of  young  researchers  in  the  productive 
sector; and  

providing  grants  to  support  subprojects  for  developing  and  strengthening 
domestic  masters  and  doctoral  programs  through,  inter  alia,  curricula  design, 
teacher training, and upgrading of the learning infrastructure. 

 
(c) 
tertiary education programs of high priority for the productive sector by, inter alia:

Providing grants to support subprojects aimed at strengthening and establishing technical 

designing curricula;  

facilitating international staff exchange and international collaboration; 

(iii) 

awarding scholarships to students;  

(iv) 

providing learning and scientific equipment; 

(v) 

carrying out minor works to adapt existing buildings; and 

(vi) 

supporting collaboration with research institutions. 

Part 3:  Promoting Innovation and Technology Transfer to the Productive Sector

Providing grants for subprojects to create new technology centers or upgrade the capacity 

(a) 
of existing ones to: 

facilitate  the  transfer  and  adaptation  of  existing  technologies  to  enterprises 
incorporated under the Borrower’s law; 

address sectoral quality issues; 

identify  bottlenecks  and  opportunities  for  further  innovation  of  products  and 
processes at the sectoral level;  

(iv) 

conduct research and development to develop such products and processes; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 9 -

(v) 

facilitate the commercialization of new products; and 

 

(vi) 

conduct training activities for the productive sector. 

 
(b) 
Providing grants to public-private research consortia comprised of at least one firm from 
the Borrower’s productive sector and academic research centers/universities to carry out research 
and development subprojects in priority areas identified by the Borrower.    

- 10 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements. 

1. 

Unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project 
implementation: 

the DICYT, with functions, staffing and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank 

(a) 
for the purposes of the Project; and  

the GMI, with composition and functions acceptable to the Bank for the purposes 

(b) 
of the Project. 

2. 

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  comply  with  the  terms  of  an  agreement  (the  Agency 
Agreement) with the CND under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia, the obligation of the CND to assist the Borrower in procurement, disbursement 
and financial management of the Loan proceeds, consistent with the specific procedures 
set out in the Operational Manual. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Agency  Agreement  in  such 
(b) 
manner  as  to protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Agency Agreement or any provisions thereof. 

3. 

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an  operational 
manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), such manual to include, inter 
alia: 

(i) 

the procedures for carrying out, monitoring and evaluating the Project;  

(ii) 

(iii) 

the  final  format  of  the  financial  statements,  chart  of  accounts  and  the 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project; 

with  respect  to  the  grants  under  Parts  2(a)(i)  through  (iv),  2(b)(v),  2(c) 
and 3 of the Project: 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

for 

the  criteria 
the 
implementation and monitoring of subprojects supported by such 
grants; 

the  approval,  and  procedures 

for 

the  criteria  for  the  eligibility  of  the  beneficiaries  of  the  grants; 
and  

the  model  grant  agreement  for  the  provision  of  funds  and  the 
implementation of the subprojects; and 

- 11 -

(iv) 

with regard to scholarships and stipends under Part 2 (b)(i) through (iv) 
of the Project:  

(A) 

the criteria for the eligibility and procedures for the competitive 
selection  of  scholarship  and  stipend  recipients,  and 
the 
determination of the value of the awards; and 

(B) 

the model agreement for the award of scholarships and stipends. 

(b) 
The  Operational  Manual  may  be  amended  by  the  Borrower  from  time  to  time 
with the prior approval of the Bank.  In the case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Operational  Manual  and  those  of  this  Agreement,  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  shall 
prevail.   

4. 
No  later  than  September  30,  2007,  the  Borrower  shall  present  to  the  Bank  a  transition 
plan to transfer Project implementation to the ANII, including staffing and other requirements to 
ensure that the ANII will have the capacity to assume the Project implementation responsibilities 
of the Borrower under this Agreement.  Subject to the Bank’s approval of the transition plan, the 
Borrower shall take all actions necessary to implement the transition in a timely manner. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on  the  basis  of  the  performance  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project  Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

- 12 -

Section III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 

1. 

2. 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

Goods, Works and Non-Consultants’ Services.   All goods, works and non-consultant 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultants’  Services.
The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultant’s services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 

Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
(d)  Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable to 
the Bank (through analogy to paragraph 3.12 of the Procurement Guidelines) 
 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

- 13 -

Procurement Method
(a)  Least-Cost Selection 
(b)  Quality–Based Selection 
(c)  Selection Based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
(d)  Single-Source Selection 
(e)  Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant’s Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants  

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine by  notice  to  the  Borrower, the following 

1. 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank:  
 

(a)  

the  first  contract  for  works  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $50,000  or  less 

procured on the basis of Shopping; 
 

(i) 

(b) 

each contract for goods estimated to cost more than $250,000, procured 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; (ii) the first contract for goods to be procured 
by public institutions estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less procured on the basis of 
National  Competitive  Bidding;  (iii)  the  first  contract  for  goods  to  be  procured  by  public 
institutions estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less procured on the basis of Shopping; 
(iv)  each  contract  for  goods  to  be  procured  by  public  institutions  on  the  basis  of  Direct 
Contracting; and (v) each contract for goods estimated to cost more than $10,000 to be procured 
by private sector beneficiaries on the basis of Direct Contracting; 
 

(i) 

(c) 

each  contract  for  consultants’  services  provided  by  a  firm  estimated  to 
cost more than or equal to $100,000 procured on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection; 
(ii) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost more than or equal 
to $100,000 procured on the basis of Quality–Based Selection; (iii) each contract for consultants’ 
services  provided  by  a  firm  procured  on  the  basis  of  Single-Source  Selection;  (iv)  the  first 
contract  for  consultant’s  services  provided  by  a  firm  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $100,000 
procured on the basis of Least-Cost Selection; and (v) the first contract for consultant’s services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost less than $100,000 procured on the basis of Selection Based 
on the Consultant’s Qualifications; and 
 

(d) 

all contracts (including terms of reference and curriculum vitae) for consultants’ 
services  provided  by  individual  consultants  estimated  to  cost  more  than  $100,000  or  to  be 
procured on the basis of the Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
2. 
 
E. 

All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

Special Provisions

In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this Section, 
the Procurement Guidelines or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern 
the  procurement  of  goods,  works,  non-consultant  services  and  consultants’  services,  where 
applicable, under this Section. 

- 14 -

The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award. 

Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding. 

Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be registered with local 
authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested from such bidders is 
of such nature that it will not discourage their participation. 

There  shall  be  no  prescribed  minimum  number  of  bids  to  be  submitted  in  order  for  a 
contract to be subsequently awarded. 

After  the  public  opening  of  bids,  information  relating  to  the  examination,  clarification, 
and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning awards shall not 
be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially concerned with this 
process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 
2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). 

Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding documents 
or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Uruguayan authorities as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure. 

There shall be no preference for domestic contractors. 

The prices of contracts for consultants’ services over one year duration may be adjusted. 

Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for 
participating in the selection criteria. 

The  invitations  to  bid,  bidding  documents,  minutes  of  bid  openings,  requests  for 
expressions of interest, the evaluation report of bids and proposals, and contract awards 
of all goods, works, and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be published in a 
web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of:  (a)  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  (b)  this  Section,  and  (c)  such  additional 
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World 
Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to 
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such 
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  2 
below. 

(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 
 
(h) 
 
(i) 

 
(j) 

A. 
 
1. 

 

 

- 15 -

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

2. 

 

Category 

(except 

(1)    Goods,  works,  Training 
and  consultants’  services  for 
the  Project 
those 
covered  in  Categories  2  or  3 
below) 
(2)  Grants 
(3)  Operating Costs 
(4)    Refund  of  the  Project 
Preparation Advance 

 

 

(5) Front-end Fee 

(6)  Premium for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 

2,600,000 

100% 

21,400,000 
750,000 

500,000 

0 

0

85% 
100% 
Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 2.07 (a) of the General 
Conditions 
Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section  2.08 
this 
Agreement  

(c)  of 

2.04 

of 

(7)  Unallocated  
TOTAL AMOUNT 

750,000 
26,000,000 

 

 

For the purposes of this schedule, the term: 

 

(a) 

“Training”  means  the  reasonable  non-consultant  expenditures  incurred  by  the 
Borrower  in  connection  with  the  carrying  out  of  training  activities  (including  workshops, 
conferences  and  seminars)  under  the  Project,  including  travel  costs,  per  diem  of  trainers, 
facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 
 

(b) 

“Operating  Costs”  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  specialized  staff,  including 
procurement staff in the CND, small refurbishing and sundry recurrent expenses directly related 
to  the  performance  of  the  Project  activities,  which  would  not  have  been  incurred  absent  the 
Project. 
 

(c) 

“Grants” means: (i) expenditures for goods, works, non-consultant services and 
consultant  services  under  Parts  2(a)(i)  through  (iv),  2(b)(v),  2(c),  and  3  of  the  Project;  and  (ii) 
expenditures for scholarships and stipends under Part 2 (b)(i) through (iv) of the Project. 
 
B. 
 
1. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

- 16 -

(a) 

from  the  Loan  Account  (other  than  to  repay  the  Project  Preparation  Advance) 
until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee, if the Borrower 
selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee; or  

 

 
2. 
 

(b) 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   

The Closing Date is December 15, 2012. 

- 17 -

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each April 15 and October 15 
 
 

Beginning October 15, 2012  
through April 15, 2022 

 

5% 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 

 

 

- 18 -

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

4. 

 
5. 

- 19 -

APPENDIX 

Definitions 
 
1. 

 

 
2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

“ANII” means Agencia Nacional de Investigación e Innovación, the Borrower’s National 
Research and Innovation Agency, a legal person under public law established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s law no. 18.084 of December 28, 2006. 

“Agency Agreement” means the agreement dated March 9 and referred to in paragraph 
2(a) of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“CND”  means  Corporación  Nacional  para  el  Desarrollo,  the  Borrower’s  National 
Development Corporation, established by the Borrower’s Law no. 15.785 of December 4, 
1985. 

“CONICYT”  means  Consejo  Nacional  de  Innovación,  Ciencia  y  Tecnología,  the 
Borrower’s  National  Innovation,  Science  and  Technology  Council  established  by  the 
Borrower’s law no. 17.296 of February 21, 2001 as amended by the Borrower’s law no. 
18.084 of December 28, 2006. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“DICYT” means Dirección de Innovación, Ciencia y Tecnología para el Desarrollo, the 
Borrower’s  Directorate  of  Innovation,  Science  and  Technology  for  Development 
established  by  Article  262  of  the  Borrower’s  Budget  Law  no.  17.930  of  December  19, 
2005. 

“FNI”  means  Fondo  Nacional  de  Investigadores, the  Borrower’s  National  Fund  for 
Researchers established by Borrower’s Budget Law of January 5, 1996. 

“GMI”  means  Gabinete  Ministerial  de  la  Innovación, the  Borrower’s  Interministerial 
Innovation  Cabinet  established  pursuant  to  a  Presidential  Resolution  of  April  14,  2005 
and  comprised  of  its  Ministers  of  Education  and  Culture;  Economy  and  Finance; 
Livestock,  Agriculture  and  Fisheries;  Industry,  Energy  and  Mining;  and  its  Director  of 
the Office of Budget and Planning. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

the  “International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction  and 

“Observatory” means the Science Technology and Innovation Observatory, the entity to 
be established by the Borrower pursuant to Part 1(c) of the Project, to provide technically 
sound  information  on:  (a)  the  status  of  and  trends  in  key  indicators  of  innovation, 
advanced  human  capital  and  scientific  production  within  the  Borrower;  (b)  the  impact 
and effectiveness of publicly funded instruments to stimulate innovation; (c) key sector 

- 20 -

issues  related  to  innovation  in  the  Borrower  and  possible  policy  responses;  (d) 
international  experiences  and  tendencies  in  support  of  innovation;  and  (e)  prospective 
areas where enterprises incorporated under the Borrower’s law can develop a competitive 
advantage through process and product innovation and clustering. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated March 9, 2007, for the operation of the 
Project referred to in paragraph 3(a) of Part A, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
as the same may be amended from time to time. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated 
December 15, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions, granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement 
signed on behalf of the Bank on June 28, 2006 and on behalf of the Borrower on July 5, 
2006. 

“STI” means science, technology and innovation. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 
 

