CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7495-IND 

Loan Agreement 

(Fourth Development Policy Loan) 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated December 12, 2007 

 

LOAN NUMBER 7495-IND 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  December  12,  2007  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF 
INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 

 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  six  hundred  million  Dollars 
($600,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided  that, 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 

2

continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.10  of  the  General 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 

 
ARTICLE III – PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end: 
 
(a) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program,  and  the  actions  specified  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

 
(b) 

 
(b) 

 

3

(c) 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  exchange  views  with  the  Bank  on  any 
proposed  action  to  be  taken  after  the  disbursement  of  the  Loan  which 
would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program,  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  a 
situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 

 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY  
 
Jakarta   

45799 DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

 

 

 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

4

Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 

AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg,  

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 
 

 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I.  

Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 

The Borrower has taken steps to improve the implementation of its Value-Added 
Tax  (“VAT”)  provisions  through  settlement  of  the  bulk  of  the  backlog  of 
outstanding VAT claims and reduction in the processing time for VAT refunds in 
accordance with the Decree No. 122/PJ/2006 issued by the Director-General of 
Tax, prescribing maximum time limits for the processing of the refunds.  

 
2.  

 
3.  

 
4.  

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

The  Borrower  has  through  MOF  enacted  a  law  which  provides  for  tax  audit 
procedures enabling taxpayers to seek and obtain details of audit findings along 
with the legal basis for audit decisions, as well as a review of the findings in the 
case of disputes after the closing conference but before completion of the audits. 

The Borrower has taken appropriate steps to roll out a National Single Window, 
including a mechanism for on-line clearance of merchandise.  

The  Borrower  has  enhanced  its  procedure  for  tariff  setting  through  the 
introduction  of  the  requisite  methodology,  improved  research  capability  and 
appropriate information technology. 

The Borrower has taken steps to implement its recently-enacted Investment Law 
and  supporting  regulations,  including  provision  for  new  operating  procedures 
along  with  the  necessary  legal  and  institutional  framework  to  facilitate 
implementation of both the law and associated regulations. 

The Borrower has taken steps to reduce the time required for the establishment of 
a business  enterprise  and  facilitate  start-up  time  through  the  removal  of 
unnecessary  or  redundant  registration  procedures,  simplification  of  required 
formalities and elimination of multiple requirements. 

The  Borrower  has  issued  a  policy  reform  package  for  the  empowerment  of 
MSMEs,  with  emphasis  on  the  need  to  facilitate  the  access  of  MSMEs  to 
financial services, and taken steps to implement its recently-enacted Warehouse 
Receipts Law. 

The  Borrower  has  taken  steps  to  implement  appropriate  good  corporate 
governance and risk management standards in relation to both private and state-
owned banks, and continued the implementation of the financial sector safety net. 

6

The  Borrower  has  taken  steps  to  implement  a  Medium-Term  Expenditure 
Framework for the 2008 budget through submission of a budget which includes 
aggregate revenue and expenditure forward estimates based on macro-economic 
forecasts. 

The  Borrower  has  taken  steps  to  consolidate  core  government  bank  accounts 
through continued implementation of a single treasure account regime, expansion 
of  zero-balance  banking  arrangements  to  cover  all  KPPNs  and  adoption  of  a 
government  regulation  on  principles  of  cash  management  and  transparent 
accountability, giving the Minister of Finance power to close unauthorized bank 
accounts. 

to 

implement 

taken  steps 

transparent  accountability 
The  Borrower  has 
arrangements  in  the  management  of  central  government  investment  funds 
(“RDI”)  and  regional  development  accounts  (“RDA”),  including  adoption  and 
implementation  of  regulations  on  the  principles  governing  the  improved 
the 
transparent  accountability  of  RDIs,  along  with 
management  and 
corresponding decrees prescribing the operating procedures governing RDIs.  

The  Borrower  has taken  steps to  have  a  new  Presidential  Decree issued  for the 
establishment of a fully independent LPKPP.   

The Borrower has taken necessary steps to establish a Remuneration Commission 
or interdepartmental team to make recommendations on remuneration policy and 
pay  levels  for  high-ranking  state  officials,  and  developed  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  structure  and  remuneration  framework  for  such  officials  to  be 
adopted and considered for inclusion in the FY 2008 budget.  

The  Borrower  has taken steps to develop  and  implement  a  comprehensive  civil 
service  reform  plan  for  MOF  to  be  used  as  a  pilot  for  civil  service  reforms  by 
other reform-minded ministries and agencies. 

The  Borrower  has  developed  an  enhanced  assessment  framework  for  the 
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  CDD  and  micro-finance  programs,  and  other 
selected service delivery programs. 

The  Borrower  has  established  competency  standards  for  teacher  certification, 
along with the tools and instruments for measuring actual compliance with such 
standards. 

The Borrower has taken steps to facilitate sub-national borrowing by sub-national 
governments  through  the  completion  of  the  regulatory  framework  for  the 
issuance of sub-national bonds. 

9.  

 
10.  

 
11.  

 
12.  

 
13.  

 
14.  

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 

7

18. 

A. 

 
B. 

 

C. 
 

 
D. 

 
E. 

The Borrower has taken steps to remove critical constraints on national budget-
funded  CDD  programs,  through  a)  introduction  of  a  mechanism  to  facilitate 
community  funding  of  multiyear  programs,  and  b)  clarification  of  the  rules 
governing  the  applicability  of  government  procurement  procedures  to  such 
programs.  

 
Section II.  

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay  the  Front-end  Fee)  be  withdrawn  in  a  single  tranche.  The  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations

Single Tranche 
Front-end Fee 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

598,500,000 
1,500,000 
600,000,000

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   

1. 

 
2.  

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is March 31, 2008. 

8

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule  
 

1. 

 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by  multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Repayment Date

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)

April 1, 2013 
October 1, 2013 
April 1, 2014 
October 1, 2014 
April 1, 2015 
October 1, 2015 
April 1, 2016 
October 1, 2016 
April 1, 2017 
October 1, 2017 
April 1, 2018 
October 1, 2018 
April 1, 2019 
October 1, 2019 
April 1, 2020 
October 1, 2020 
April 1, 2021 
October 1, 2021 
April 1, 2022 
October 1, 2022 

1.93 
2.00 
2.07 
2.14 
2.21 
2.29 
2.37 
2.46 
2.54 
2.63 
2.72 
2.82 
2.92 
3.02 
3.12 
3.23 
3.35 
3.46 
3.58 
3.71 

9

3.84 
3.97 
4.11 
4.26 
4.41 
4.56 
4.72 
4.89 
5.06 
5.61 

April 1, 2023 
October 1, 2023 
April 1, 2024 
October 1, 2024 
April 1, 2025 
October 1, 2025 
April 1, 2026 
October 1, 2026 
April 1, 2027 
October 1, 2027 

(a) 

 

(b) 

2.  

 

 

3. 

(a) 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

10 

 

4. 

 
5. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

11 

APPENDIX 
 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
 
2. 
 

“CDD” means community-driven development.  

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 

Sub-group 

112 
121 

122 

525 
667 

971 

718 

 

718.7 
 

728 
897 

  728.43  
897.3 
 

Description of Item 
 

Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated materials 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 
 
8. 
 
9. 

 
10. 

12 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“Fiscal  Year” or “FY”  mean  the  Borrower’s fiscal  year  commencing January  1 
and ending December 31. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 17, 2007) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 

“KPPN”  means  Kantor  Pelayanan  Perbendaharaan  Negara, a local  payment 
office  operating  under  DG-Treasury,  and  responsible  for  the  disbursement  of 
central budget funds. 

“LPKPP” means Lembaga Pengembangan Kebijakan Pengadaan Pemerintah, a
Goods and Services Procurement Policy Development Institution. 

“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 

“MSME” means micro, small and medium enterprises. 

“National Single Window” means a trade facilitation mechanism which enables 
exporters  and  importers  to  apply  simultaneously  and  in  a  single  transaction  to 
multiple government agencies for approvals for the import or export of goods. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred to in the  letter  dated  October  31,  2007  from  the  Borrower to the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 

13 

 

 
11. 
 
12. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 

6. 

requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 

“Rupiah” or “Rp” means the Borrower’s currency.  

“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The  modifications  to  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development 
General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through  October  17, 
2007)  are as follows:  
 
1. 

The  last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

(c) 

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 

Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 

14 

(c)  

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  as  set  forth  in  the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified to read as follows:  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support  of  which  the  Loan  is  made.”    All  references  to  “Project” 
throughout  these  General  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to 
“Program”.

 

7. 

 

 

