CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7374-GU 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Rural Economic Development Project) 
 

between 
 

REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated October 22, 2007 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7374-GU 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  October  22,  2007,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  GUATEMALA 
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

(“Borrower”) 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

and 

ARTICLE I—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE II—LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest 
payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be 
determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General 
Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan 
Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

-2-

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.08  of  this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with 
the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to 
consecutive  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  which  in  the  aggregate  equal  to  thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate  for  the  full  maturity  of  such  amount  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 

ARTICLE III—PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower,  through  SEGEPLAN,  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the 
Project  and  the  Program  and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  jointly  with 
CIV/FONDETEL, MINECO and FONAPAZ and, shall coordinate, through SEGEPLAN, 
the implementation of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

 
4.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 

ARTICLE IV—EFFECTIVENESS 

is November 28, 2007. 

-3-

ARTICLE V—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
 
Telephone: 
(502) 22485002  
(502) 22485003  
(502) 22485080 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

Fax: 
(502) 22485005 
(502) 22485084 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

-4-

 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 

first above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Mefi Rodríguez García 

 

 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Jane Armitage 

 

Authorized Representative 

-5-

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  assist  the  Borrower  in:  (i)  improving  the 
competitiveness of rural  productive  supply  chains  with  strong  indigenous  participation; and (ii) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of the public entities participating in the Program for the 
adoption of a participatory territorial management model with indigenous involvement.  
 
Part 1:  Investment in Productive Supply Chains

Increasing  the  competitiveness  of  productive  supply  chains  that  have  a  rural  base  and  strong 
indigenous participation in the Selected Departments through: 
 
1.1. 

(a) the establishment by MINECO, in cooperation with private professional associations 
and  relevant  service  providers,  including  NGOs,  of  entrepreneur  development  services 
allowing  rural  productive  organizations  to  access  markets  and  link  up  with  productive 
supply chains; and (b) the carrying out of Investment Subprojects by or for Beneficiaries; 

(a)  the  strengthening  of  MINECO’s  capacity  to  assist  rural  enterprises  in  accessing 
financial  services;  (b)  the  provision  of  technical  advisory  services  to,  and  support  for,  
tailoring  the  services  of  financial  institutions  to  the  needs  of  rural  productive 
organizations,  and,  in  relation  thereto;  (c)  the  building  of  the  required  capacity  in  the  
rural productive organizations for accessing the  services of the financial institutions; and 
(d)  the  provision  of  credit  facilities  to  be  extended  to  selected  financial  institutions  in 
furtherance thereof;  

the carrying out by FONAPAZ of public rural infrastructure and collective investments in 
economic infrastructure to support the development of new supply chain partnerships and 
the  improvement  of  existing  ones,  through  the  provision  of  financing  for  the 
implementation of Investment Subprojects; and 

the provision of support, including technical advisory services and capacity building, by 
CIV  through  FONDETEL,  for  the  development  of  the  productive  use  of  ICT 
infrastructure, networks and services, including the roll-out and the installation of public 
pay  phones,  mobile  phone  networks  and  services  and  a  network  of  internet  points  of 
presence and telecenters, to be carried out in priority in the Selected Departments and, as 
needed, in other areas of the Borrower’s territory. 

 
Part 2:  Strengthening of the Territorial Public Management Capacities for Competitiveness

Enhancing overall institutional capacity for public management with the introduction of territorial 
development-based  public  management  models  best  able  to  facilitate  better  informed  public 
policy,  public  and/or  private  sector  decision  making  processes  and  investments  programs, 
including, in respect of SEGEPLAN: 
 
2.1. 

the development of the new territorial management model for rural development based on 
participatory principles and the fostering of public/private partnerships; 

1.2. 

 
1.3. 

 
1.4. 

 

 

-6-

2.2. 
 
2.3. 

the implementation of the model in the Selected Departments; 

the  access  to  territorial  strategic  information  through  an  integrated  and  decentralized 
territorial strategic information system; and  

the disclosure, awareness and training in relation thereto.   

 
2.4. 
 
Part 3:  Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

Ensuring  optimal  implementation  of  the  Project  by  strengthening  management  capacity  of 
SEGEPLAN and the other Co-Executing Agencies participating in the Investment Coordination 
Committee  with  the  Borrower’s  commission  against  discrimination  and  racism,  through  the 
establishment  and  operation  of  a  general  management  system  that  would  include  an  efficient 
monitoring and evaluation system of the Program. 
 

-7-

 
SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Institutional and Other Arrangements

1. 

(a) 

 

The  Borrower,  through  SEGEPLAN,  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  Project 
operational manual, satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank, setting forth 
rules,  methods,  guidelines,  standard  documents  and  procedures  for  the  carrying 
out of the Project, including the following: 

the  detailed  description  of:  (A)  Project  activities;  and  (B)  institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof; 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

the detailed membership required of all entities to be set up for purposes 
of  the  Project,  including  inter  alia,  the  Management  Board  and  the 
Investment Coordination Committee; 

the  administrative,  financial,  accounting,  auditing,  procurement  and 
disbursement  procedures  for  the  implementation  of  the  Project  by  all 
Executing  Entities, including the relevant standard documents in relation 
thereto; 

the  selection  criteria  for:  (i)  the  NGOs  and  other  service  providers, 
including  the  standard  service  agreements  for  the  contracting  of  their 
services, (ii) the Beneficiaries and (iii) the Investment Subprojects under 
Part1.1 and  1.3 of the Project;  

the  Environmental  Management  Framework  disclosed  to  the  general 
public  on January  12,  2006,  therein  setting  forth the guidelines  and  the 
framework 
for  mitigating  potential  harmful  effects  of  Project 
implementation and including an IPDF prepared for the  Project; and 

(vi) 

the  plan  for  the  monitoring,  evaluation  and  supervision  of  the  Project, 
including the Performance Indicators. 

(b) 

The  Borrower,  through  SEGEPLAN,  shall:  (i)  maintain  the  OM  throughout 
Project implementation; (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project 
is  carried  out  in  conformity  with  the  OM;  and  (iii)  only  amend  the  OM,  from 
time to time, with the Bank’s prior written consent. 

(c) 

In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the OM and any one under 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will prevail. 

-8-

 
2. 
 

The Borrower shall ensure that SEGEPLAN:  

(a) 

(b) 

(a)  

(b)  

is  maintained  in  structure  and  with  personnel,  including    procurement  and 
financial  management  specialists,  adequate  in  number  and  having  terms  of 
reference,  functions  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  at  all  times  during 
Project implementation;  

remains  responsible  for  the  effective  coordination  of  the  overall  Project, 
including  the  coordination  of  procurement,  financial  management,  auditing, 
monitoring and evaluation aspects in relation thereto; and 

(c)  

submits annual work plans and budget for review and comments to the Bank and, 
for approval, to the Management Board. 

3. 

The Borrower shall: 

establish, for purposes of the Project, an investment coordination committee and 
a management board with membership as set forth in the OM; and thereafter 

through  SEGEPLAN,  during  Project 

implementation,  the  said 
maintain, 
investment  coordination  committee  and  the  management  board  in  conformity 
with the specifications set forth in the Operational Manual. 

4. 

The Borrower shall ensure that:  

(a) 

SEGEPLAN:  

(i)  

(ii)   

enters  into  an  agreement  (the  Framework  Agreement)  with  each  of  the 
other  Co-Executing    Agencies  of  the  Project,  therein  setting  forth  the 
respective  obligations  of  the  parties  thereunder,  notably  with  respect  to 
the implementation and the financing of the relevant parts of the Project, 
including the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of 
goods and the carrying out of works in relation thereto, and the appraisal 
of Investment Subprojects, all in accordance with the guidelines set forth 
in the OM; 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  such 
agreement  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend, 
abrogate,  waive  or  fail  to enforce any  such agreement  or  any  provision 
thereof; 

-9-

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

MINECO  and  FONAPAZ  respectively  enter 
the 
Beneficiaries  wherein  the  modalities  for  the  implementation  of  the  Investment 
Subprojects shall be specified, all in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
the OM; and 

into  agreements  with 

Each  other  Co-Executing  Agency  to  appoint  and  maintain,  throughout  Project 
implementation,  key  staff,  including  procurement  and  financial  management 
specialists  with  qualifications,  experience,  terms  of  reference,  resources  and 
functions satisfactory at all times to the Bank. 

5. 

The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall: 

ensure  that  the  Investment  Subprojects  carried  out  under  MINECO  and 
FONAPAZ,  respectively,  are  identified,  appraised,  approved,  implemented, 
managed and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in the OM; 

carry out, on an annual basis, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank an 
independent technical audit of physical activities and procurement review of the 
implementation of the Investment Subprojects by the Beneficiaries, focusing on 
the adherence to the guidelines and procedures set forth in the OM; and  

(c) 

ensure that:  

(i)  

a review of the Project’s performance and outcome is carried out no later 
than 2 years after the Effective Date;  

(ii)  

no  later than  3  months  thereafter, the  ensuing  report is furnished to the 
Bank for its review; and 

(iii)  

thereafter, all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives of the Project, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter, are taken. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation.

Project Reports  

A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower,  through  SEGEPLAN,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  Performance  Indicators  agreed  with  the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  

-10-

 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits.   

The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, interim un-
audited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower, through SEGEPLAN, shall have its consolidated Financial Statements in 
respect of the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  

International Competitive Bidding. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2  below,  goods,  works  and  related 
non-consulting services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, concerning the implementation of Part 1.4 of the 
Project, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Performance-Based Procurement. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 

2. 

 

 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

-11-

Procurement Method

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject 
to using: (i) Standard Bidding Documents 
agreed with the Bank; and (ii) 
Performance-Based Procurement with 
respect to Part (1.4) of the Project 
 
(b) Shopping, subject to using Standard 
Bidding Documents agreed with the Bank 
 
(c) Community Participation 
 
(d) Direct Contracting, subject to the 
Bank’s prior consent 

Procurement Method

(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s 
Qualifications 
 
(e)  Single  Source  Selection,  subject  to  the 
Bank’s prior consent  
 
(f) Services rendered by Individual 
Consultants 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

-12-

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the 
Borrower  to:  (a)  finance  the  Front-end  Fee  in  accordance  with  Section  2.07  (b)  of  the 
General  Conditions;  and  (b)  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in 
paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

 
D. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
5,200,000 

Percentage of  
Expenditures to be  
financed 
100% 

Category 

(1) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
(including for Investment 
Subprojects) in respect of Part 
1.1 of the Project 
 
(2) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services 
(including for Investment 
Subprojects)  in respect of Part 
1.3 of the Project  
 
(3) Goods, works and 
consultants’ services in respect 
of Part 1.4 of the Project 
 
(4) Goods and consultants’ 
services in respect of Part 2 of 
the Project 
 
(5) Goods and consultants’ 
services in respect of Part 3 of 
the Project 
 

6,000,000 

100% 

15,400,000 

1,200,000 

900,000 

100% 

100% 

100% 

-13-

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

75,000 

1,225,000 

30,000,000 

 

Percentage of  
Expenditures to be 
 financed 
Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
 

2.03 

of 

 

Category 

(6) Front-end Fee 
 

(7) Unallocated 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 

B. 
 
1. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made 
from the Loan Account for payments made: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement  except  that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate 
amount not exceeding two million Dollars ($2,000,000) may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures within 12 months before that date but in no 
case before February 06, 2006; or 

under Category 1, until and unless a Framework Agreement satisfactory in form 
and  substance  to  the  Bank  has  been  entered  into  between  SEGEPLAN  and 
MINECO, and has become effective; or 

under Category 3, until and unless a Framework Agreement satisfactory in form 
and substance to the Bank has been entered into between SEGEPLAN and CIV, 
and has become effective. 

2. 

The Closing Date is January 31, 2013. 

-14-

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each May 15 and November 15: 

Beginning May 15, 2012 
through May 15, 2023 

 
On November 15, 2023 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
4.17 % 

4.09 % 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 
1. 

 

 

 

-15-

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

4. 

 

-16-

APPENDIX 

 
Section I. 
 
1. 

Definitions 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 
 
12. 

 
13. 

“Beneficiary” means either: (i) a municipality, for Investment Subprojects under Part 1.3 
of the project exclusively; or (ii) a cooperative, producer organization, trade intermediary, 
association or private firm, which all meet the selection criteria, set forth in the OM. 

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“CIV” means Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y Vivienda, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing. 

“Co-Executing Agencies” means collectively SEGEPLAN, CIV, FONDETEL, MINECO 
and FONAPAZ, responsible for the implementation of the Project. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Environmental  Management  Framework”  means  the  Borrower’s  framework  for  the 
management of environmental aspects of the Project referred to in Section I.1 (a) (v) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“FONAPAZ”  means  Fondo  Nacional  para  la  Paz, the  Borrower’s  National  Fund  for 
Peace  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower’s  Acuerdo  Gubernativo  No.  408-91  dated 
June  28,  1991,  and  Acuerdo  Gubernativo  No.  244-92  dated  April  13, 1992,  as  such 
accords have been amended and are in effect as of the date of this Agreement. 

“FONDETEL” means Fondo para el Desarrollo de la Telefonía, the Borrower’s Telecom 
Fund. 

“Framework  Agreement”  means  an  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.4  (a)  (i)  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
October 17, 2007).  

the  “International  Bank 

“ICT” means all Information and Communication Technologies.  

“Investment Coordination Committee” means the committee referred to in Section I.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Investment Subproject” means: 

(a) 

(i) 

either  a  specific  investment  in  collective  or  local  public  productive 
infrastructure; or  

 

-17-

 

(ii) 

any  technical  assistance  in  relation  to  a  Subproject,  including  the  costs 
associated  with  legal  incorporation  of  the  Beneficiary,  and  prepared 
pursuant to Part 1.1 or Part 1.3 of the Project;  

 
determined to be eligible under the OM; and  

to be carried out through the provision of grants therefor, by, or for the benefit of, 
such Beneficiary, utilizing the proceeds of the Loan.  

(b) 
 
(c) 

“IPDF”  means  the  Borrower’s  Indigenous  Peoples’  Development  Framework  for  the 
Project referred to in Section I.1(a)(v) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Management Board” means the Borrower’s management board for the Program referred 
to in Section I.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as further specified in the OM. 

“MINECO” means Ministerio de Economía, the Borrower’s Ministry of the Economy. 

“NGO”  means  a  non-governmental  organization  operating  under  the  laws  of  the 
Borrower. 

“Operational  Manual”  and  “OM”  mean  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.1  (a)  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  

“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation set 
forth in the OM and referred to in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, signed and 
dated February 23, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Program”  means  “Programa  Desarrollo  Economico  desde  lo  Rural”,  the  Borrower’s 
program adopted in March 2005, designed to support income generation for the poorest 
through, inter alia, employment generation in productive activities by prioritizing the use 
of  public/private partnerships  and  strengthening  territorial planning  and implementation 
mechanisms. 

“SEGEPLAN” means Secretaría de Planificación y Programación de la Presidencia, the 
Borrower’s  Presidential  Secretariat  for  Planning  and  Programming  responsible  for  the 
coordination of the Project. 

“Selected Departments” means the departments of San Marcos, Huehuetenango, Sololá,
Quetzaltenango, Totonicapán, Chimaltenango, Sacatepequez  and  Alta  Verapaz  in  the 
Borrower’s territory where Project implementation is intended to take place. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 
 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

 

-18-

 

