CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 4849 RU 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Judicial Reform Support Project) 
 

RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated July 17, 2007  
 

LOAN NUMBER 4849 RU 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  July  17,  2007,  between  the  RUSSIAN  FEDERATION 
(“Borrower”)  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) 
(“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 

2.06.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 

 

2

 

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

the  Project  Implementation  Agreement,  or  any  provision  thereof,  shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a 
way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or 
the PIU to carry out the Project; and 

(b) 

the  PIU  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the 
Project Implementation Agreement. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following:  any  event 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and 
is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by 
the Bank to the Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The  Project  Implementation  Agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has 
been  executed  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  represented  by  the  MOEDT 
and the MOF, and the PIU. 

The  IACC  with  a  composition,  resources  and  terms  of  reference, 
necessary  for  successful  Project  implementation  and  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank, has been established by the Borrower. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

3

(c)  

The  Project  Operational  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been 
adopted by the Borrower. 

5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following. 
 

The  Project  Implementation  Agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been 
executed between the Borrower, represented by the MOEDT and the MOF, and 
the PIU and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the PIU in accordance with 
its terms. 

 
5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  the  Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Borrower,  or 

any other person authorized by the Minister of Finance. 

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

 
 
 

Ministry of Finance 
Ilyinka Street 9 
109097 Moscow 
Russian Federation 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

 

 

 

 

Telex:   

112008  

Facsimile: 

(7-095) 925-0889 

International Bank for Reconstruction  
  and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

 

AGREED at Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

4

RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 

 

 
 

 

By /s/ German Gref 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Samir Suleymanov 

Authorized Representative 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  the  Borrower  to  strengthen  judicial 
transparency and efficiency of selected courts through the implementation of information 
systems and judicial training. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Component A. Institutionalizing Judicial Transparency and Accountability

Periodic  surveys  of  users  of  judicial  services  on  access  to,  quality  of  and 
satisfaction  with  judicial  services  and  enforcement  of  judicial  decisions  and 
public dissemination of the survey results. 

Research  and  analysis  on  further  development  of  transparency,  publication, 
openness  and  accessibility  of  judicial  decisions,  processes  and  practices, 
including obligatory publication of judicial decisions, on introduction of modern 
information and communication technologies in judicial systems and on further 
integration of the Borrower’s judicial system. 

Creation,  implementation  and  dissemination  of  common  case  management 
standards, guidelines and processes. 

Development  and  piloting  of  criteria,  indicators  and  a  policy  to  assess  and 
periodically  report  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  judicial  system,  and  related 
capacity-building; assessment of human capital development needs. 

Development and implementation of a change management and communications 
strategy to promote judicial reform. 

 
Component B. Use  of  Information  and  Communications  Technology  for  Judicial 

Transparency and Effectiveness

Modernization, development, and deployment of integrated information systems 
to  facilitate  document  flow,  record  management,  information  collection,  and 
internal knowledge sharing. 

Improvement of public access to and availability of judicial information through 
enabling online publication of judicial decisions and other relevant information. 

Provision  of  integrated  information  systems  to  enhance  mobile  capabilities  and 
video-conferencing. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

6

Component C. Strengthening Human Capital

Provision of training, workshops, seminars and knowledge sharing enhancement. 

(a) 
 
(b) 
 
Component D. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

Provision of information technology related education and training. 

(a) 

 
(b) 
 
(c) 

Provision  of  logistical  and  secretarial  support  to  the  IACC  and  financing  of 
Operating Costs of the PIU. 

Provision of ICT related technical assistance to selected courts. 

Implementation of a project results framework and of monitoring and evaluation 
indicators. 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Institutional and Other Arrangements

At all times during the implementation of the Project the Borrower shall maintain 

1. 
the IACC with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the PIU at all 
2. 
times  functions  in  a  manner,  and  with  staff,  consultants,  facilities  and  other  resources 
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, all satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
requirements,  criteria,  organizational  arrangements  and  operational  procedures  set  forth 
in the Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions 
of the Operational Manual without a prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Section II.

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation

Project Reports   

A. 
 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
 
1. 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 

8

Section III.

Procurement

A. 

General 

1. 
Goods and Technical Services.   All goods and technical services required for 
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
2. 
be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
1. 
2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Technical Services  

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Technical  services. The 
2. 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods  and  technical  services.    The 
Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances  under  which  such  methods  may  be 
used. 
 

Procurement Method 

National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule 2 

 
(a) 
 
 
(b)  
 
(c)  
 
(d)  
 

Shopping 

Direct Contracting 

Agreed procedures for organization of training 

9

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

C. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 
 

Quality Based Selection  

Least Cost Selection 

Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 

Selection of Individual Consultants, including Single-Source Selection 

(a) 
 
(b)  
 
(c)  
 
(d)  
 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 

Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

A. 
 
1. 
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  this  Section and  such  additional instructions  as the  Bank  shall  specify  by 
notice  to  the  Borrower  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

10

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

48,600,000 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
29% 

 

Category 

(1)  Goods, technical 
services and 
consultants’ services 
for the Project 

 
(2)  Operating Costs 
 

1,400,000 

29% 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

 

50,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

B. 
 
1. 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 

The Closing Date is March 30, 2012. 

2. 
 

11

ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 

Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 

 

Contracts  for  goods  or  technical  services  for  which  Part  B  of  Section  III  of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the  Procurement  Guidelines  may  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
national  laws  and  regulations  of  the  Borrower.  In  order  to  assure  economy,  efficiency, 
transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines,  the  national  procurement  provisions  shall  be  modified  as  set  forth  in  the 
following paragraphs. 
 

Eligibility

Eligibility  for  foreign  firms  to  participate  in  bidding  shall  not  be  based  on 

No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
1. 
be  placed  on  the  basis  of  nationality  of  bidder  and/or  origin  of  goods  other  than  those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders  shall  only  be  required  to  register  for  bidding  provided  that  registration 
requirements  and  process  are  simple  and  non-discriminatory  and  otherwise  qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, 
material or equipment. 
 
5. 
State-owned entities shall be eligible to participate in bidding for contracts if they 
can  establish that they  are legally  and  financial autonomous,  operate under  commercial 
law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 

Standard Bidding Documents

6. 
Until a modified version of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 

12

Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation

The  opportunity  to  pre-qualify  for  procurements  involving  large  or  complex 

7. 
Bidding  opportunities  shall  be  advertised  in  national  press  of  wide  circulation. 
Prospective  bidders  shall  be  allowed  at  least  thirty  (30)  days  for  bid  preparation  and 
submission  of  bids  (excepting  contracts  for  readily  available  off-the-shelves  goods  or 
standard specification commodities or small value works).  
 
8. 
contracts shall be advertised.  
 
9. 
Minimum  experience,  technical  and  financial  requirements  (for  pre-  or  post 
qualification)  shall  be  explicitly  stated  in  the  bidding  documents  and  only  criteria  so 
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders 
which  are  deemed  not  qualified  to  bid  shall  not  be  further  considered  and  shall  be 
rejected. 
 

Bid opening

Rebidding

10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence  of  bidders  who  wish  to  attend.  Bids  received  after  the  deadline  shall  not  be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
 

11. 
Rebidding  shall  not  necessarily  be  required  if  only  one  bid  has  been  received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
 

Bid evaluation

12. 
Evaluation  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding  documents  and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of 
bids for goods and technical services contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid  evaluations  shall  be  confidential  and  bidders  shall  not  be  allowed  to  be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations  to  the  terms  or  conditions  of  the  bidding  documents  shall  be  rejected  as 
“substantially  not  responsive”.  Bidders  shall  not  be  requested  or  permitted to  withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 

13

15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents  and  no  other  criteria  than  those specified in  the  bidding  documents shall  be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
16. 
to contract award.  
 

There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 

14

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

Principal Amount of the Loan 
Payable 
(Expressed in USD∗)

Principal Payment Date

On each May 15 and November 15 
 

beginning May 15, 2012
through November 15, 2021

2,500,000 

∗

The figures in this column represent the amount in USD to be repaid, except as provided 

in Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 

15

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

 

 
1. 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 
 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 
 
10. 

 
11. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Constitutional Court” means the Constitutional Court of the Borrower. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 

“IACC”  means the Inter-Agency Coordination Council to be established by the 
Borrower for the purposes of overall Project steering and coordination pursuant 
to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 

“ICT” means information and communication technology. 

“JD”  means  the  Judicial  Department  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  Borrower  or 
any successor thereto. 

“MOEDT”  means  the  Ministry  of  Economic  Development  and  Trade  of  the 
Borrower or any successor thereto. 

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto. 

“Operating  Costs”  means  incremental  operating  costs  incurred  by  the  PIU  on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including staff 
salaries and consultancy costs, social charges, Training, dissemination of Project 
related information, office rent and utilities, office equipment and supplies, office 
and  equipment  insurance,  maintenance  and  repair,  vehicle  maintenance  and 
repair,  travel,  communication,  translation  and  interpretation,  bank  charges,  and 
other  miscellaneous  costs  directly  associated  with  the  Project,  all  based  on 
periodic budgets acceptable to the Bank. 

“PIU” means the Bureau of Economic Analysis, an independent non-commercial 
legal  entity,  established  as  a  foundation  and  registered  with  the  Borrower’s 
Ministry  of  Justice  on  August  9,  1996  pursuant  to  Registration  Certificate  No. 
UR-31,  or  any  other  entity  with  staff,  resources  and  terms  of  reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and selected by the Borrower for the purpose of day to 
day project management and implementation and which is a party to the Project 
Implementation Agreement executed pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 

16

“Procurement  Guidelines” means  the  “Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated September 18, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Implementation  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into 
between  the  Borrower,  represented  by  the  MOF  and the  MOEDT,  and the  PIU 
pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. 

“Project Operational Manual” means the project operational manual satisfactory 
to the Bank and to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement. 

“SAC” means the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Borrower. 

“SC” means the Supreme Court of the Borrower. 

“Technical Services” means services (other than consultant services) required for 
the  Project  and  to  be  procured  in  accordance  with  Procurement  Guidelines 
pursuant to paragraph 1.1 of these Guidelines. 

“Training”  means  Project  related  study  tours,  training  courses,  seminars, 
workshops  and  other  training  activities,  not  included  under  goods  or  service 
providers’ contracts, including  costs  of training  materials, space  and equipment 
rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 
 
17. 
 
18. 

 
19. 

 

