CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 4861-MK 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Agriculture Strengthening and Accession Project) 
 

between 
 

and 
 

former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (“Borrower”) 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 18, 2007  
 

LOAN NUMBER 4861-MK 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  September  18,  2007,  between 

the  BORROWER  and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifteen million Euro ((cid:0)15,000,000), 
to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 

 
2.04.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of  the  Loan  amount,  subject  to  any  waiver  of  a  portion  of  such  fee  as  may  be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.    
 

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 

2.06.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 

 

2

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

3

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  through  the  Ministry  of 
Agriculture,  Forestry  and  Water  Economy,  and  the  Paying  Agency,  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 

4.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

the  Borrower  has finalized  and  adopted a  plan  for  restructuring 
the  MAFWE,  including  regional  offices,  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

 the law creating the Paying Agency has been  adopted. 

4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

(a) 

 
(b) 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Ministry of Finance 
Dame Gruev 14 
1000 Skopje 

Facsimile: 

389 2 3117 280  

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

4

Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 

AGREED at Skopje, Macedonia, as of the day and year first above written.  

BORROWER 

By /s/ Trajko Slaveski 

 

 
Authorized Representative 

 

 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Markus Repnik 

 

 
Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  the  delivery  of  the  Borrower’s 
assistance to the agriculture sector in a manner consistent with the European Union’s pre-
accession requirements. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to  achieve  such 
objective:  

Part I:  

Strengthening  of  MAFWE’s  Capacity  in  Accordance  With  European 
Union Accession Requirements 

Initiation of an integrated administration and control system within the MAFWE, 
1. 
through 
technology  equipment  and 
communications  infrastructure,  the  conduct  of  aerial  surveys  and  mapping  in  pilot 
regions, and the provision of technical assistance and Training to MAFWE staff. 

the  supply  and 

installation  of 

information 

2. 
Establishment of an agriculture information system within the MAFWE, through 
the  supply  and  installation  of  information  technology  equipment  and  software,  data 
collection and dissemination, logistical and operational support, and Training of MAFWE 
staff. 

Strengthening of the agricultural inspection services within the MAFWE, through 
3. 
the provision and installation  of  information and communications technology,  technical 
assistance, logistical and organizational support, and Training of MAFWE staff. 

Improving MAFWE’s capacity in the areas of agriculture policy analysis, project 
4. 
management, human resources development, and planning and organization, through the 
provision  of  information  technology  equipment,  logistical  support,  technical  assistance, 
Training  of  staff,  and  the  renovation  and  refurbishment  of  MAFWE  facilities,  and 
Incremental Operating Costs. 

Part II:  

Supporting  the  Borrower’s  Ability  to  Deliver  European  Union  Rural 
Development Funds 

1. 
Establishment of the Paying Agency (PA), through training of PA staff, technical 
assistance  for  the  development  of  a  fiduciary  system,  provision  and  installation  of  an 
information 
the 
refurbishment of office space. 

technology  software  and  hardware  platform,  equipment,  and 

6

2. 
Improving  the  Paying  Agency’s  capacity  in  the  area  of  administration  of 
payments,  and  of  measures  under  the  IPARD  program,  through  the  provision  of 
equipment and Training. 

3. 
Strengthening  the  Borrower’s  capacity  to  make  IPARD  advisory  services 
available to beneficiaries of IPARD funds, through the provision of technical assistance 
and Training. 

Improving  the  Borrower’s  capacity  to  design,  implement,  monitor  and  evaluate 

4. 
rural development policies, programs and strategies. 

Part III:  Developing Veterinary Capacity 

Completion  of  a  veterinary  information  system  and  a  feasibility  study  for  safe  
1. 
disposal of animal by-products, establishment of a disposal facility, conducting a public 
outreach campaign, and capacity building within the Veterinary Directorate, through the 
provision of information technology, Training, data collection and inspection equipment, 
and works. 

Improvement  and  ISO  certification  of  laboratories,  through  the  provision  of 

2. 
consultants’ services and equipment. 

Part IV:  Completion of Irrigation Sector Reforms 

Completion  of  liquidation  of  Selected  Water  Management  Organizations, 

1. 
including the provision of Severance Payments. 

Establishment  of  water  economies,  through  the  provision  of  consultants’ 

2. 
services, equipment and Training. 

3. 
Strengthening  the  management,  monitoring  and  planning  capacity  of  the  Water 
Economy Directorate, through the provision of goods, Training, technical assistance and 
Incremental Operating Costs. 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

A. 
 
1. 
The  Steering  Committee  shall  be  responsible  for  overall  Project  oversight  and 
coordination.    To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  Steering  Committee  with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Forestry  and  Water  Economy  shall  be  responsible 
for Project implementation.  The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for day-to day 
management  of  the  Project.    Within  the  MAFWE,  the  Policy  Analysis  and  Agriculture 
Information Systems Department shall be responsible for implementation of Part I of the 
Project.  The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for implementation of Part II of the 
Project,  subject  to  the  covenant  in  paragraph  3  of  this  Section.    The  Veterinary 
Directorate within the MAFWE shall be responsible for implementation of Part III of the 
Project, and the Water Economy Directorate within the MAFWE shall be responsible for 
implementation  of  Part  IV  of  the  Project.    To  that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain 
adequate staff and resources for implementation of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
Once the Borrower has operationalized, adequately staffed and funded the Paying 
Agency,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  the  Paying  Agency  shall  become 
responsible  for  implementation  of  Part  II  of  the  Project.    The  MAFWE  shall  remain 
responsible  for  financial  management,  procurement,  disbursement,  and  monitoring  and 
evaluation for the entire Project. 
 
B. 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MAFWE and the Paying Agency, shall carry out its 
obligations  in  accordance  with  the  Operational  Manual  and  the  Environmental 
Management Plan, and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision 
of  the  Operational  Manual  or  the  Environmental  Management  Plan  without  prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The  Borrower,  through  the  MAFWE,  shall,  not  later  than  December  1  of  each 
year during the implementation of the Project, starting December 1, 2007, submit to the 
Bank for review and approval an annual work program for the following calendar year, 
including  an  update  of  the  Procurement  Plan,  as  well  as  an  annual  implementation 
progress report for the preceding calendar year. 

Implementation Covenants 

8

The Borrower, through the Veterinary Directorate, shall, not later than September 

3. 
1, 2007, adopt a medium term veterinary strategy, satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  Severance  Payments  under  Part  IV.1  of  the 

4. 
Project are made in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 

C. 

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 

 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Section II.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

A. 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MAFWE, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 
of  the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one  (1)  month  after  the  end  of  the  period  covered  by  such 
report.  
 
2. 
Borrower shall: 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  in  paragraph  1  of  this  Sub-section,  the 

prepare,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the 
(a) 
Bank,  on  or  about  July  31,  2009,  a  report  integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  thereof  during  the  period  following 
such date; and 

(b) 
review  with  the  Bank,  by  September  30,  2009,  or  such  later  date  as  the  Bank 
shall  determine,  the  report  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  and,  thereafter, 
take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the  efficient  completion  of  the  Project  and  the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 

3. 
For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution  of  the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 

9

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

B. 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MAFWE, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, or such other period 
as agreed by the Bank.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Section III.

Procurement

A. 

General 

Goods  and  Works.      All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
1. 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

2. 
Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding, 

10

which  may  be  used  for  goods  and  works.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 

paragraph 3 below 

 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding – with the modifications set forth in  
 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 

 
(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

The  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  shall  be  subject to  the  following 

3. 
additional provisions: 

Eligibility: Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  excluded  from  bidding  and  no 

preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 

Procedures: “Open Tendering” procedures shall be followed in all cases. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily 
newspaper, allowing minimum of twenty-one (21) days for preparation and submission of 
bids.  

Participation  by  Government-owned  enterprises: Government-owned 
enterprises shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they 
are  legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under  commercial  law  and  are  not  a 
dependent agency of the Borrower. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 

Bidding  Documents: Appropriate  standard  bidding  documents  for 
procurement  of  goods  and  technical  services  shall  be  used,  which  shall  include  draft 
contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank. The technical specifications 
contained in the bidding documents shall be precise and clearly written and describe the 
subject procurement in an objective, strictly functional and impartial manner. 

Submission  of  Bids: Bidders  may,  at  their  option,  submit  bids  either  in 
person, by courier services or by mail at any time prior to the deadline for submission of 
bids. 

Bid Opening and Evaluation: Bids shall be opened immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids and in public. The time and place for bid opening shall be 
announced in the bidding documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence 
to the bid evaluation criteria, expressed in quantifiable terms and disclosed in the bidding 
documents.  The  contracts  shall  be  awarded  to  qualified  bidders  having  submitted  the 

11

 
(g) 

 
(h) 

lowest  evaluated  substantially  responsive  bid.  The  bidder  recommended  for  award  of 
contract  shall  be  required  to  comply  with  minimum  experience  and  technical  and 
financial  requirements  disclosed  in  the  bidding  documents.  Negotiations  shall  not  be 
allowed with lowest evaluated bidder or any other bidder. 

Rejection of Bids: All bids shall not be rejected and new bids shall not be 

solicited without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 

Securities: The bid securities shall not exceed 3% of the estimated cost of 
the contract. The performance securities shall not exceed 10% of the contract amount. No 
advance payment shall be made without a suitable advance payment security for the same 
amount. 
 
C. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 

 
(a)  Consultants Qualifications  
 
(b)  Least Cost Selection  
 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
 
(d)  Single Source 
 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 

Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 

12

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

A. 
 
1. 
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  this  Section and  such  additional instructions  as the  Bank  shall  specify  by 
notice  to  the  Borrower  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
2. 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 

Category 

(1)  Goods, works, consultants’  
services, Training and  
 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
 
(2)  Severance Payments 
 
(3)  Front-end Fee 

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 

12,900,000 

 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
80% 

2,100,000

100% 

 

0 

Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

 

15,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

B. 
 
1. 
made: 
 

 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 

(a)      for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed (cid:0)150,000 equivalent may be made 
for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  March  1,  2007  for  Eligible 
Expenditures under Category (1) in the table in Section IV.A of this Schedule; and 

13

(b) 

in respect of payments under Category (2) in the table in Section IV.A of 
this Schedule, until the Borrower has financed all remaining severance package costs by 
qualifying  former  employees  of  the  liquidated  WMOs  of  Vodostopanstvo-Kumanovo-
Kumanovo,  Vodostopanstvo-Pelagonija-Bitola,  Sterna-Prilep,  Malesevsko  Pole-Berovo, 
and Vodostopanstvo Vardar-Skopje. 

 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2011. 

2. 

 

14

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

Principal Payment Date

Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro)*

On each February 15 and August 15 
beginning February 15, 2013 through 
August 15, 2024 

 

 625,000  
 

* The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.  
 

15

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

 

 
1. 

2. 

 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 
 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan adopted by the Borrower on 
April  5,  2007,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  consisting  of  the  set  of  mitigation, 
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures  to  be  taken  to  eliminate  adverse 
environmental  and  social  impacts,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable 
levels, as well as actions needed to implement these measures. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 15, 2006). 

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
MAFWE  and  the  water  economies  established  pursuant  to  Part  IV.2  of  the 
Project  on  account  of  the  Project  implementation,  including  the  costs  of 
communication,  printing  and  publications,  supplies,  bank  charges,  local  travel 
costs and field trip expenses. 

“IPARD” means the European Union’s Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance 
for Rural Development. 

“ISO” means the International Standardization Organization. 

“Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Forestry  and  Water  Economy”  or  “MAFWE”  means 
the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Forestry  and  Water  Economy,  and 
includes any successor thereto. 

“Ministry of Finance” or “MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and 
includes any successor thereto. 

“Operational  Manual”  means 
for 
implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement 
and with the national laws and regulations of the Borrower and including, inter 
alia: (i) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, including 
adequate  measures  for  procurement  and  forensic  audits,  and  monitoring  and 

the  manual  describing  procedures 

16

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

evaluation arrangements; and (ii) the financial management manual setting forth 
the procedures for financial management under this Project. 

“Paying Agency” or “PA” means the Borrower’s Agency for Financial Support 
in  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development  to  be  accredited  to  administer  IPARD 
funds. 

“Policy  Analysis  and  Agriculture  Information  Systems  Department”  means  the 
department  within  the  MAFWE  charged  with  policy  analysis  and  agriculture 
information systems, and includes any successor thereto. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  April  19,  2007  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Coordinator”  means  the  person  appointed  by  the  Borrower  to  manage 
the Project, referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 

“Selected  Water  Management  Organizations”  means  the  Water  Management 
Organization (“WMO”) Ohridsko-Ezero-Ohrid, the WMO Mantovo-Radovis, the 
WMO Strumiski sliv-Strumica, and the WMO Gevgelisko-Valandovsko Pole. 

“Severance  Payments”  means  payments  under  Part  IV.1  of  the  Project,  to 
retrenched  employees  arising  from  the  liquidation  of  the  Selected  Water 
Management  Organizations,  undertaken  in  accordance  with  the  Law  of  the 
Borrower on Water Economies dated December 31, 2003, and include salary and 
allowance arrears, pension payments, social contributions and severance pay. 

“Steering  Committee”  means  the  committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, chaired by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture or 
such  other  person  appointed  by  the  Government  of  the  Borrower,  and 
comprising,  inter  alia, designated  representatives  from  the  MAFWE,  the 
Ministry of Finance, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Education and 
Agriculture, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, the 
Secretariat  for  European  Integration  Affairs,  the  Ministry  of  Health,  the  State 
Authority for Geodetic Works, and the State Statistical Office. 

“Training”  means  training  activities  (other  than  consultants’  services)  to  be 
carried  out  under  the  Project,  as  approved  by  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of  annual 
training  and  study  tour  plans  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  the  reasonable 

17

and  necessary  local  and  international  travel  and  visa  expenses  incurred  by 
participants  in  training  workshops,  as  well  as  lodging,  subsistence,  local  and 
international  per  diem  allowances  according  to  the  guidelines  of  the  Borrower, 
registration,  tuition  and  facilitators’  fees,  minor  organizational  expenses 
(including  costs  of  stationery,  handouts  and  training  materials),  translation  and 
interpretation costs, facility rental costs, and other expenditures directly relating 
to the training workshop and study tour activity, as may be agreed with the Bank. 

“Veterinary Directorate” means the department within the MAFWE charged with 
veterinary issues. 

“Water Economy Directorate” means the directorate within the MAFWE charged 
with water economy issues. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 

