CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7556-JM 

Loan Agreement 

 
(Second HIV/AIDS Project) 
 

between 
 

JAMAICA 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 10, 2008 

LOAN NUMBER 7556-JM 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated 

and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

June  10,  2008,  between 

(“Borrower”) 

JAMAICA 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist 
in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  

Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 

 

interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower  shall  cause  Part  1.3  of  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  Civil  Society 
Organizations  and  the  Private  Sector,  and  carry  out  Part  1.2  of  the  Project  through  the 
Non-Health Line Ministries, and all other Parts of the Project through the MOH with the 
assistance of its RHAs, all the above in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 

4.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  but  in  no  case  later  than 
 
eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  loan  which  expire  on 
 
November 13, 2009. 
 

 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and the Public Service of the 

Borrower.   

 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance and the Public Service  
30 National Heroes Circle 
Kingston 4 
Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1-876-924-9291 

-2- 

 

 

 

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 

first above written. 
 

 

 

 
 

JAMAICA 

By /s/ Anthony Smith Rowe Johnson 

 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 

 

-3- 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objectives of the Project are to assist in the implementation of the Borrower’s NHP 
by supporting the: (i) deepening of prevention interventions targeted at high risk groups and the 
general population; (ii) increasing of access to treatment, care and support services for infected 
and affected individuals; and (iii) strengthening of program management and analysis to identify 
priorities for building the capacity of the health sector to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
other priority health problems.   
 

The  Project  consists  of  the  following  parts  subject  to  such  modifications  thereof  as  the 

Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part 1. Prevention

Strengthen the capacity of the MOH and of the RHAs to provide technical guidance for 
the  national  response  to  HIV/AIDS  and  to  deliver  HIV/AIDS  related  services  for 
prevention through the health care system by: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(e) 

 
(c) 

supporting  behavior  change  communication  interventions,  targeting  at  risk 
groups and the general population; 

expanding voluntary counseling and testing to permit scaling-up of treatment and 
care and to prevent HIV transmission and expand prevention of mother-to-child 
transmission services; 

improving the management of STIs; 

(d) 

promoting and providing condoms to increase condom use; and 

improving  blood  safety  services  by,  inter  alia,
donations.  

increasing  voluntary  blood 

 
Scale  up  the  contribution  of  the  Non-Health  Line  Ministries  to  prevention  activities  to 
make the national response truly multi-sectoral by: 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 

supporting the implementation of the Non-Health Line Ministries’ work plans;  

co-financing the staffing costs of the focal points for Non-Health Line Ministries; 
and 

providing  technical  assistance  and  training  for  the  focal  points  and  their 
respective ministerial HIV/AIDS committees. 

Support  prevention  activities  by  Civil  Society  Organizations  and  the  Private  Sector, 
through the provision of technical support and grants for demand-driven subprojects that 
would target interventions for key populations at higher risk. 

-4- 

1.1 
 
 
 

 

 

 

1.2 

 
1.3 

Part 2. Treatment, Care and Support

Support the scaling-up of treatment, care and support by: 

2.1 
 

 

(a)  

(b) 

improving  the  public  laboratory  system  to  enhance  diagnostic  capacity  as  it 
relates to HIV and tuberculosis testing and monitoring of related conditions; and 

strengthening capacity to manage opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and anti-
retroviral  treatment  through  the  development,  update  and  dissemination  of 
technical  guidelines  and  procedures,  the  provision  of  drugs,  nutritional 
supplements and substitute infant feeding formula and the training of health care 
workers  in  the  comprehensive  management  of    HIV/AIDS,  STIs,  opportunistic 
infections, tuberculosis and  prevention of mother-to-child transmission. 

 
Part 3. Institutional  Capacity  Strengthening  for  Legislative  Reform,  Policy  Formulation, 

Program Management and Monitoring and Evaluation

3.1 

 

 
3.2 

 
3.3 

 

 

Provide technical assistance to support changes to the legislative and policy framework in 
such areas as: 

(a)   

updating  of  the  Public  Health  Act  to  address  new  health  challenges  such  as 

  HIV/AIDS; and  

advocating  for  further  legislative  and  policy  reform  to  address  stigma  and 
discrimination. 

Co-finance staff costs for the technical and fiduciary functions of the PCU and the RHAs, 
in support of the coordination and management of the Borrower’s NHP. 

Strengthen the monitoring and evaluation system by inter alia:

supporting  the  development  of  a  monitoring  and  evaluation  framework  and 
operational  plan  for  improving  the  Borrower’s  HIV/AIDS  surveillance  and 
information management; 

conducting  studies,  surveys  and  surveillance  on  the  general  population  and 
special groups; and  

co-financing staff costs, equipment, and training in monitoring and evaluation. 

Part 4. Health Sector Development Support

4.1 

Support the upgrading and improved management of the biomedical waste management 
system by inter alia:

 
(b)   
 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 
 

(a) 

upgrading  waste  management  treatment  facilities,  including  the  provision  of 
equipment,  waste  disposal  supplies  and  materials  to  enable  proper  segregation 
practices  and  the  procurement  of  maintenance  service  contracts  for  the  western 
and southeastern treatment facilities; 

 

-5- 

(b) 

(c) 

 

preparing  facility  specific  waste  management  plans,  including  the  creation  of  a 
system to support health care facilities in the documentation of infectious waste 
generation on a continuous basis; and  

supporting  capacity  building  activities, 
the  development  and 
dissemination  of  medical  waste  management  training  materials,  as  well  as  the 
training  of  health  workers  in  medical  waste  management,  post-exposure 
prophylaxis, and the operation and maintenance of new equipment.  

including 

4.2 

 
Support  an  assessment  of  the  obstacles  that  limit  the  capacity  of  the  health  sector  to 
deliver  quality  health care efficiently to those needing it most.    

 

-6- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements. 

1. 

Unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project 
implementation: 

(a) 

(b) 

the COHSOD, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank for the 
purposes of the Project, with responsibility for, inter alia, setting policy, overall 
coordination and monitoring and evaluating the performance of the NHP; and  

a  Project  coordinating  unit,  within  the  NHP  of  the  MOH,  with  structure, 
functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  inter  alia 
responsibility  for  coordinating  the  activities  of,  and  providing  fiduciary  support 
to,  the  MOH,  Non-Health  Line  Ministries,  RHAs,  Civil  Society  Organizations 
and the Private Sector (collectively, “Implementing Agencies”) as required under 
the NHP and carrying out supervision of the Project.  

Other 

B. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an  operations  manual 
satisfactory to the Bank, such manual to include, inter alia:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

the  implementation  strategies  and  the  procedures  for  monitoring  and 
evaluating the Project, including the Project monitoring indicators; 

the guidelines for the preparation of Annual Work Plans; 

the  environmental  guidelines  for,  inter  alia,
the  management  of  the 
environmental  risks  of  bio-medical  waste  and  of  small-scale  construction 
works; 

the  financial  management  procedures  for  the  Project,  as  well  as  the  agreed 
format  of  the  financial  statements,  chart  of  accounts  and  interim  unaudited 
financial reports for the Project;  

the procurement procedures and the standard bidding documents to be used 
for  each  procurement  method  as  well  as  the  model  contracts  for  the 
procurement of goods and works; and 

(f) 

with respect to the grants under Part 1.3 of the Project: 

(i)   

the  composition  of 
beneficiaries; 

the  committee 

that  would  select  grant 

-7- 

 

(ii)   

the eligibility criteria for beneficiaries of the grants;   

(iii)  

(iv)  

the  criteria  for  approval  and  the  procedures  for  monitoring  the  
subprojects supported by such grants; and  

the  model  grant  agreement  for  the  provision  of  funds  to  the 
beneficiaries  and 
the  Demand-driven 
Subprojects. 

implementation  of 

the 

2. 

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall  ensure  that  the  Operations  Manual  or  any  part  thereof  is  not  amended,  waived, 
suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s prior written concurrence, and in case of any 
inconsistency between the terms of provisions of the Operations Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.   

3. 

The Borrower shall:  

(a) 

prepare  consolidated  annual  work  plans  for  the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the 
guidelines set  forth  in  the Operations  Manual,   including  the  work  plans  of  the 
MOH, the Non-Health Line Ministries and the RHAs, as well as a budget line for 
grants to be awarded to Civil Society Organizations and the Private Sector; 

 

(b) 

not later than February 28 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 
year 2009, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual work plan, each said 
plan to include inter alia:

(i)  

the  Project  activities  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Borrower,  with  the 
assistance of the Implementing Agencies, as the case may be, during the 
ensuing Fiscal Year following the receipt of the Bank’s approval of the 
relevant plan; and 

 

(ii)  

the  updated  Procurement  Plan  and  estimated  disbursements  by  Project 
component for each said Fiscal Year;  

implement  each  said  Annual  Work  Plan,  approved  by  the  Bank,  in  accordance 
with its terms; and  

carry out the Annual Work Plan for the Fiscal Year 2008-2009 as approved by 
the Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 

C. 

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that: 

the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; and  

the Borrower’s agencies, the Civil Society Organizations and the Private Sector 
are  made  aware  of  the  Anti-corruption  Guidelines  and  take  all  necessary 
measures to support the implementation of the Project in compliance therewith. 

-8- 

 

 

 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on  the  basis  of  the  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  included  in  the  Operations 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty  five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  the  period 
covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  Fiscal  Year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited 
Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished to the  Bank  not later  than 
four months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods and Works.   All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

 

-9- 

 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  goods  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
International Competitive Bidding. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping   
(c)  Direct Contracting  
(d)  Limited International Bidding 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

 

Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Fixed budget  Selection 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection  
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  that  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank’s  Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

A. 
 
1. 

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 

-10- 

the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

 
2. 

 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)

 
3,248,000 

 

 

1,736,000 

3,046,000 

1,945,000 

25,000 

Category

(1) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services, Grants, Training 
 
and Operating Costs under 
 
 
Part 1 of the Project 
(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services, Training and 
  Operating Costs under 
 
Part 2 of the Project 
(3) Goods, consultants’ 
 
services, Training and 
  Operating Costs under 
 
Part 3 of the Project 
(4) Goods, works, consultants’ 
 
services, Training and 
  Operating Costs under 
 
Part 4 of the Project  
(5)  Front-end Fee 

 

 

 

 

 

Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

10,000,000 

 

For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c) 

 

“Grants” means expenditure for goods and services financed by grants under Part 
1.3 of the Project.  

“Training”  means  the  reasonable  non-consultant  expenditures  incurred  by  the 
Borrower  in  connection  with  the  carrying  out  of  training  activities  (including 
workshops  and  fieldtrips)  under  the  Project,  including  travel  costs  per  diem  of 
trainers, facilitators and stakeholders, and training materials. 

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of specialized staff, including staff 
responsible  for  project  management  and  administration  in  the  PCU  and  the 
RHAs,  and  sundry  recurrent  expenses  directly  related  to  the  performance  of 
Project activities. 

-11- 

97% 

 
95% 

 
72% 

 
93% 

B. 
 
1. 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
up  to  a  year  prior  to  this  date  but  in  no  case  before  April  1,  2008,  for  Eligible 
Expenditures.   

The Closing Date is November 30, 2012. 

 

-12- 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date by; (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each April 15 and October 15 
 

Beginning October 15, 2013  
through April 15, 2038 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

2% 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

-13- 

 

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 

“Annual  Work  Plan”  means  any  of  the  plans  referred  to  in  paragraph  3  (a)  and  (b)  of 
Section I. B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    

 “Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006.  

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“Civil Society Organizations” means the Borrower’s National AIDS Committee and non-
governmental organizations that receive grants to carry out Demand-driven Subprojects 
pursuant to Part 1.3 of the Project. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 

“COHSOD”  means  the  Borrower’s  Council  for  Health  and  Social  Development  which 
reports to the Borrower’s Cabinet or any successor thereto. 

“Demand-driven Subprojects” means the subprojects referred to in Part 1.3 of the Project. 

“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s financial year April 1 of one year through March 31 
of the following year. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008).  

the  “International  Bank 

“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus. 

“Implementing  Agencies”  means  the  MOH,  Non-Health  Line  Ministries,  RHAs,  Civil 
Society Organizations and the Private Sector, collectively. 

“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 

“NHP” means the Borrower’s National HIV/STI Program. 

“Non-Health  Line  Ministries”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministries  of:  Education;  Labour 
and Social Security; Tourism; and National Security. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 
 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 
 
12. 

 
13. 
 
14. 
 
15. 

 

-14- 

“Operations  Manual”  means  the  manual,  dated  May  9,  2008,  for  the  operation  of  the 
Project referred to at paragraph 1 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 

“PCU”  means  the  coordinating  unit  referred  to  in  paragraph  1(b)  of  Section  I.A  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Private  Sector”  means  private  sector  entities  that  receive  grants  to  carry  out  Demand-
driven Subprojects pursuant to Part 1.3 of the Project. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
20, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Public  Health  Act”  means  the  Borrower’s  Public  Health  Act  of  February  21,  1985  as 
amended to date.   

“RHA” means a regional health authority established by the Borrower’s National Health 
Services Act, dated October 1, 1997.  

“STI” means sexually transmitted infection. 

16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 
 

 

-15- 

