CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7561 JO 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Employer Driven Skills Development Project) 
 

between 
 

THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated July 8, 2008 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 

LOAN NUMBER 7561 JO 
 

AGREEMENT dated July 8, 2008, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF 
JORDAN  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

1.02. 

Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE II - LOAN 

2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven million five hundred thousand 
United States dollars (US$7,500,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent  (0.25%)  of  the  Loan  amount.  On  or  promptly  after  the  Effectiveness 
Date,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of said fees. 

 
2.04.  The interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with the  relevant provisions  of  Article  IV  of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 

- 2 -

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding from a Fixed Rate to a Variable Rate, or vice versa. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through MoL, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 

The Development Coordination Unit of MoL has adequate staffing to coordinate 
and support the implementation of the Project. 
 

4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

Cooperation. 

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  the  Minister  of  Planning  and  International 

 

 

 

- 3 -

5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 

 
 

 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 
 

Facsimile: 

962-6-464 9341 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 

the day and year first above written. 
 

THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 

By /s/ Suhair Al-Ali 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

 
 

 

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Daniela Gressani  

- 4 -

SCHEDULE 1 

Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  improving  its  TVET 
sector through the harmonization of policies pertaining to the development of said sector 
and the realignment of such policies with the operational functions of E-TVET, including 
the  development  of  employer  participation  in  the  formulation  of  said  policies  and  in 
carrying out institutional development reforms as well as in the design and delivery of a 
skills development program.  

The Project consists of the following four parts: 

Part 1: Development of TVET sector and E-TVET Council

Developing the policy, operational and institutional capacity of E-TVET Council 
and its Secretariat, regarding employment-related planning, implementation and 
training,  with  the  participation  of  employers,  public  and  private  training 
providers, and the Training and Employment Fund, as well as other stakeholders, 
through: 

Establishing  the  organizational  structure  and  institutional  mechanisms 
for the E-TVET system. 

Research  and  studies  pertaining  to  the  design  and  delivery  of  a  skills 
development program. 

Workshops  and  seminars  for  the  benefit  of  the  members  of  E-TVET 
Council, representatives of employers and the business community. 

Public awareness campaigns, piloting and knowledge sharing to promote 
E-TVET sector.  

Part 2: Restructuring of VTC

Developing  and  implementing  an  employer-driven  model  for  VTC  to  deliver 
efficient  and  effective  business  and  training  services,  including  improving  the 
financial and governance frameworks for VTC, through: 

Strengthening VTC’s governance and institutional frameworks. 

Establishing  a  business  and  training  model,  including  centers  of  such 
models, for VTC to provide improved services. 

Realigning  the  organizational  structure  of  VTC  as  well  as  building 
VTC’s institutional capacity.  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

- 5 -

Part 3: Strengthening the Training and Employment Fund

Developing  the  institutional  capacity  of  the  Training  and  Employment  Fund  to 
carry out its functions. 

Part 4: Project Management

(a) 

(b) 

Supporting  MoL’s  Development  Coordination  Unit  in  the  coordination 
of  Project  implementation  activities  as  well  as  in  the  monitoring  and 
evaluation of Project. 

Provision  of  assistance  to  MoL’s  Departments  of  Procurement  and 
Finance in the implementation of the Project. 

- 6 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Institutional and Other Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

A. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

A. 

1. 

2. 

 

The Borrower, through MoL, shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
provisions  of  the  Project  Implementation  Plan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,  MoL  and/or  MoL’s  Development  Coordination 
Unit shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan, 
if,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  such  amendment  or  waiver  may  materially  or 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the Project 
objectives.  

The Borrower shall at all times maintain the Development Coordination Unit of 
MoL  with  adequate  functions,  staffing  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. 
MoL’s  Development  Coordination  Unit  shall  be  responsible  for  the  overall 
coordination and the support to the implementation of the Project, including the 
procurement  and  financial  management  processes  under  the  Project  and  the 
preparation of Project reports. 

B. 

Anti-Corruption 

The  Borrower,  through  MoL,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Section II.

Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation

Project Reports   

The  Borrower,  through  MoL,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08  of  the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the 
Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  (1)  calendar  semester, 
and shall be furnished by MoL to the Bank not later than one (1) month after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date. 

Section III.

Procurement

General 

- 7 -

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower,  through  MoL,  shall  maintain  a  financial  management  system  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower, 
through MoL, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports 
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank. 

The Borrower, through MoL, shall have the Financial Statements of the Project 
audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
(1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished by MoL to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the end of such period. 

Goods  and  Works.    All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  

International  Competitive  Bidding.
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in 
paragraphs  2  and  3  below,  goods  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  

National  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  3 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

- 8 -

Competitive  Bidding  procedures  subject  to  the  Bank’s  procurement  procedures 
and the following additional procedures:  

(a)  Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 

(b)  Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily  newspaper  and  bidding  documents  shall  be  made  available  to 
prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of bids. 

(c)  Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over 

the estimated cost. 

(d)  Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 

are willing to pay the required fee. 

(e)  Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  precluded  from  bidding,  no  preference  of  any 
kind  shall  be  given  to  national  bidders,  and  having  a  presence  in  the 
Borrower’s territory shall not be made a condition for bidding. 

(f)  Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be 
stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, 
a foreign  firm  determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  bidder  shall  be 
given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no 
non-registration  status  should  be  considered  as  a  non-eligibility-to-bid 
criterion and a one-envelope bid submission system should be employed. 

(g)  Bidders  may  deliver  bids,  at  their  option,  either  in  person  or  by  courier 

service or by mail. 

(h)  Except for  late  bids, bids  shall  be  opened in  public  in  one  place  preferably 
immediately,  but  no  later  than  one  (1)  hour,  after  the  deadline  for 
submission of bids, and prices for all bids shall be read out at such public 
session and no disqualification shall be made at that stage. 

(i)  Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed 
in  the  bidding  documents,  in  a  format,  and  within  the  specified  period, 
agreed with the Bank. 

(j)  Bids  shall  not  be  rejected  merely  on  the  basis  of  a  comparison  with  an 

official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 

(k)  Split  award  or  lottery  in  award  of  contracts  shall  not  be  carried  out.  When 
two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion 
is  determined,  the  parties  involved  shall  be  disqualified  and  the  award 

- 9 -

shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
(B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be 
invited after receiving the concurrence of the Bank. 

(l)  Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial 
period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of 
bid validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances. 

(m) Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence 
of  the  Bank:  (A)  for  the  first  request  for  extension  if  it  is  longer  than 
eight  (8)  weeks;  and  (B)  for  all  subsequent  requests  for  extensions 
irrespective of the period. 

(n)  Negotiations  shall  not  be  allowed  with  the  lowest  evaluated  or  any  other 

bidders. 

(o)  Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 

(p)  All  contractors  or  suppliers  shall  provide  performance  security  as  indicated 
in  the  contract  documents.  A  contractor’s  or  a  supplier’s  performance 
security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods. The following methods, other than 
International  Competitive  Bidding  and  National  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be 
used  for  the  procurement  of  goods  for  those  contracts  specified  in  the 
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Shopping,  and  (b)  Direct  Contracting.    The  Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which the said procurement methods 
may be used. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following 
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  the 
procurement  of  consultants’  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in  the 
Procurement Plan: (a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS); (b) 
Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS); (c) Least Cost Selection (LCS); (d) Single 
Source  (SSS);  and  (e)  Individual  Consultants.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall 
specify  the  circumstances  under  which  the  said  procurement  methods  may  be 
used. 

3. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

- 10 -

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (two 
hundred thousand United Sates dollars) equivalent per contract may be composed 
entirely  of  national  consultants  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  allocation  of  the  amounts  of  the 
Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of  expenditures  to  be  financed  for 
Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 

Category 

 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

(1) Goods  

1,800,000 

(2) Consultant services and 
  Training 

4,881,000 
 

(3) Front-end Fee 

   18,750 

 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
100%  of  Foreign  Expenditures; 
100% of Local Expenditures (ex-
factory  cost),  and  90%  of  Local 
Expenditures  for  other 
items 
procured locally. 
90% for firms within territory of 
the  Borrower;  95%  for  services 
of  individual  consultants  within 
territory  of  the  Borrower;  and 
100% of foreign expenditures. 
to 
Amount  payable  pursuant 
Section  2.03  of  this  Agreement 
in  accordance  with  Section 
General 
2.07(b) 

the 

of 

- 11 -

800,250 
 
 
7,500,000

Conditions 

(4) Unallocated 
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  three  hundred  thousand 
United States dollars (US$300,000) equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after March 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Categories (1) and (2).   

For the purposes of this Schedule: 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

the  term  “foreign  expenditures”  means  expenditures  in  the  currency  of 
any  country  other  than  that  of  the  Borrower  for  goods  or  services 
supplied  from  the  territory  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the 
Borrower; and  

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower  or  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from  the  territory  of  the 
Borrower.  

3. 

The Closing Date is September 30, 2013. 

- 12 -

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

1. 

 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

Principal Payment Date 

On each April 15 and October 15 
Beginning October 15, 2013  
through October 15, 2027  
 

On April  15, 2028  

3.33 % 

 
3.43% 
 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 

- 13 -

3. 

(a) 

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, 
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to 
which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

4. 

 

- 14 -

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

6. 

 
7. 

8. 

 
9. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Development  Coordination  Unit”  or  “DCU”  means  MoL’s  Development 
Coordination Unit, responsible for coordinating the overall implementation of the 
Project, or any successor thereto. 

 “E-TVET  Council”  means 
the  Borrower’s  Employment  and  Technical 
Vocational Education and Training Council, or any successor thereto, established 
pursuant to Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

 “MoL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, or any successor thereto. 

 “Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  February  4,  2008,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

10. 

“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared 
by  MoL  and  submitted  to the  Bank  on  September  30,  2008,  setting  forth,  inter 
alia, detailed principles, processes and procedures for implementing the Project, 
as such plan may be updated from time to time in agreement with Bank. 

- 15 -

“Training  and  Employment  Fund”  means  the  Training  and  Employment  Fund 
established pursuant to Article 6 of the Borrower’s TVET Council Law 2001, or 
any successor thereto. 

“TVET  Council”  means the  Borrower’s  Employment  and Technical Vocational 
Education  and  Training  Council,  established  under  MoL,  or  any  successor 
thereto. 

“TVET sector” means Technical-Vocational Educational and Training sector of 
the Borrower. 

“VTC” means the Borrower’s Vocational Training Corporation, or any successor 
thereto.

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

 

