CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7534-CO 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Third Programmatic Business Productivity and Efficiency  
Development Policy Loan) 
 

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 26, 2008 

LOAN NUMBER 7534-CO 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  September  26,  2008,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF 
COLOMBIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of US$550,000,000 (five hundred fifty 
million Dollars, as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. In the event that the Borrower elects not to 
capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later 
than 60 days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 

2

the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 

3

Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section,  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

The  Bank  and  the  Borrower  may  at  any  time  agree  on  repayment 
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
for  the  then  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance,  provided  that:  (i)  the  average 
maturity  of  each  Withdrawal  of  an  amount  of  such  Unwithdrawn  Loan 
Balance does not exceed 18 years from the Maturity Fixing Date and the 
final  maturity  of  such  Withdrawal  does  not  exceed  30  years  from  the 
Maturity  Fixing  Date  (or  such  other  average  maturity  and/or  final 
maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the 
Borrower  at  the  time  of  such  agreement);  and  (ii)  such  repayment 
provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to 
the Withdrawal Date of any such Withdrawal 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i)  a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of 
the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(a) 
 
 

(b) 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

 

 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.10  of  the  General 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 

4

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall:  (i)  regularly  monitor  the  Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework and the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program; and (ii) from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on these matters;  

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that has arisen that has or would have the effect of materially reversing 
the  objectives  of  the  Program,  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program, 
including  any  action  specified  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement.  

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS 

4.01.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
 
 
which expire on October 8, 2009. 
 

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, República de Colombia 

Facsimile: (57-1) 350-9344 

 

 

 

5

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States of  America,  as  of  the  day 

and year first above written. 
 

 
 

 
 

REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 

By /s/ Mariana Pacheco 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Keith Hansen 

 

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken Under the Program

A. 
 

The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under  the  Program  to  strengthen  its  fiscal 
management, financial system and capital markets include the following: 

The  enactment,  by the  Borrower’s  legislative  branch,  of  legislative  act 
(Acto  Legislativo) No.  4  of  2007  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Diario 
Oficial  No. 46,686 (July  11,  2007),  which has the  objective  of limiting 
and  stabilizing  the  growth  rate  of  fiscal  transfers  to  sub-national 
the  Borrower’s 
governments  by  amending  selected  articles  of 
Constitution.  

The issuance, by MHCP, of Decree No. 519 of 2007 dated February 26, 
2007,  which  liberalizes  the  interest  rate  regime  of  capital  markets  by 
establishing risk-adjusted predatory lending interest rate caps. 

The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch, of fiscal reform law 
No.  1111  dated  December  27,  2006,  which  exempts  the  basic  savings 
accounts for the poor from any financial transaction tax. 

The issuance, by the Borrower’s Superintendence of Finance, of circular 
(Carta Circular) No. 37 dated August 9, 2006, which establishes know-
your-customer  regulations  with  a  view  to  removing  undue  barriers  for 
access  to  financial  services  (particularly  savings  accounts  for  lower 
income individuals) and differentiating between mandatory and optional 
requirements.  

The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch, of the 2007 budget 
law  No.  1110  dated  December  27,  2006,  which  allocates  budgetary 
resources  to  subsidize,  on  a  declining  basis,  the  opening  of  banking 
branches in underserved areas of the Borrower’s territory. 

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to improve industry quality 
standards and foster technological innovation include the following: 

B. 
 
 

The  enactment,  by  the  Borrower’s  legislative  branch,  of law  No.  1151 
dated July 24, 2007, which establishes a National Development Plan Law 
setting  forth,  inter  alia, the  institutional  framework  that  will  enable  the 
improvement of industry quality standards.  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

1. 

7

The  enactment,  by the  Borrower’s  legislative  branch,  of  law  No.  1151 
dated  July  24,  2007,  which,  in  relevant  sections  thereof,  establishes  the 
Borrower’s  National  Development  Plan,  setting  forth  therein  a  new 
innovation and technology policy framework. 

The enactment, by the Borrower’s legislative branch, of section No. 0320 
respectively  in:  (a)  the  2006  Budget  Law  No.  998  dated  November  29, 
2005; (b) the 2007 Budget Law No. 1110 dated December 27, 2006; and 
(c)  the  2008  Budget  Law  No.  1169  dated  December  5,  2007,  all 
evidencing  the  increase  in  the  2007  and  2008  budgetary  allocations  for 
science and technology to support the implementation of the Borrower’s 
National Development Plan. 

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to strengthen private sector 
participation in infrastructure and logistics include the following: 

C. 
 
 

The adoption, by the Borrower’s Energy and Gas Regulation Committee 
(CREG), of the resolution No. 071 dated October 3, 2006; the resolution 
No.  086  dated  November  1,  2006;  the  resolution  No.  112  dated 
December  19,  2006;  the  resolution  No.  031  dated  April  20,  2007;  the 
resolution  No.  094  dated  November  09,  2007,  which  together  establish 
the necessary steps to implement the auction of energy supply by the end 
of 2007. 
 
The  conclusion  by  the  Borrower’s    ministry  of  transport,  pursuant  to 
CONPES document No. 3342 dated March 14, 2005 issued by DNP, of 
several memoranda of understanding with, respectively: (a)  the Sociedad 
Portuaria  Regional  de  Santa  Marta  SA  (dated  July  8,  2007);  (b)  the 
Sociedad Portuaria Regional de Barranquilla SA (dated July 26, 2007); 
and  (c)  the  Sociedad  Portuaria  Regional  de  Buenaventura  SA  (dated 
August 2, 2007), to carry out actions leading to the definition of  the new 
scheme for ports operation, with the objective of securing their required 
expansion and improving logistic services.  
 
The  issuance,  by  DNP,  of  CONPES  document  No.  3469  (April  30, 
2007), which facilitates import/export logistics (inspección simultánea). 

The issuance, by DNP, of CONPES document No. 3489 for the trucking 
industry  dated  October  1,  2007,  which  facilitates  a  more  efficient 
national logistics system. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

8

Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. 

 
B. 

 

C. 
 
 
D. 

 
E. 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.    The  Loan  shall  be  withdrawn  in  various 
drawdowns of a single tranche.  The categories of items that may be financed out 
of  the  proceeds of the  Loan  (“Category”),  and  the  allocation of the amounts  of 
the Loan to each Category are set out in the table below: 

Allocations

Single Tranche 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)

 
 
 

550,000,000 

550,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.  If at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank 
of  a  request  for  withdrawal  of  an  amount  of  the  Loan,  in  the  course  of  its 
monitoring  referred  to  in  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the  Bank  determines 
that  a  review  of  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy  framework  or  of  its 
progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall 
be  made  of  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  unless  and  until  the  Bank  has 
notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (1) the progress achieved by 
the  Borrower  in  carrying  out  the  Program;  and  (2)  the  appropriateness  of  the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 

 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
2.  

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

9

F. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

G. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 

10

SCHEDULE 2 

Amortization Schedule 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April 
15  and  October  15,  the  first  installment  to  be  payable  on  the  20th Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and 
the last installment to be payable on the 52nd Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.  

Principal Payment Date 

First through to and including 32nd 

 

33rd 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

3.03 % 
 
3.04 %

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Loan  Parties  of  the  amortization  schedule  for  each 
Disbursed  Amount  promptly  after  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed 
Amount. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

 

 
1. 

2. 

 
3. 

 

 

11

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  

Definitions

“CONPES”  means  Consejo  Nacional  de  Política  Económica  y  Social,
Borrower’s National Council on Economic and Social Policy. 

the 

“DNP”  means  Departamento  Nacional  de  Planeación,  the  Borrower’s  National 
Planning Department. 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 
 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 
112 
121 

Sub-group 
 
 

Description of Item 

Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated materials 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 

 

 
 

 

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

122 

525 
667 

718 

728 
897 

971 

12

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 

“MHCP”  means  Ministerio  de  Hacienda  y  Crédito  Público, the  Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  March  07,  2008  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 

“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 

 

 

 
7. 

13

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

(d) 

 

 
(f) 

 

 

 

 

14

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  as  set  forth  in  the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 

The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 

“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C.  time,  on  the  Withdrawal  Date;  provided,  that:  (a)  for  purposes  of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is 
applicable  to  an    amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  on  which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day  prior  to  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement,  for  the  Currency  of 
denomination  of  such  amount;  (b)  for  purposes  of  fixing  the  Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread  for the  Loan  Currency  in  effect at 12:01  a.m.  Washington,  D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or  any  amount  of  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  pursuant  to  Section 
4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

(e) 

The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 

“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted  average  margin,  for  the  Interest  Period,  below  (or  above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans  that  carry  interest  at  a  rate  based  on  the  Variable  Spread;  as 
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a  percentage  per 
annum.  In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  

A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 

“Withdrawal”  means  each  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  by  the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 

15

(g) 

A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 

“Withdrawal  Date”  means,  for  each  Withdrawal,  the date  on  which  the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal. 

 

 

