CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7518-AZ 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Second National Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 5, 2008 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  September  5,  2008,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred thirty million Dollars 
($230,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 

2

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.04  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall: (a) cause Components A.1, B.1 and C.1 of the Project to 
be carried out by the Azersu; and (b) cause Components A.2, B.2 and C.2 of the 
Project to be carried out by the SAWMA, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  Project  Agreement  I  and  the  Project 
Agreement II. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual and the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

3

 

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

The  Azersu’s  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Azersu to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement 
I. 

The  SAWMA’s  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the  SAWMA  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project 
Agreement II. 

The  Project  Operational  Manual  has  been  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability  of  the  Azersu  and/or  the  SAWMA  to  perform  any  of  their 
obligations under the Project Agreement I and Project Agreement II. 

 
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 

Any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The  Azersu  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the 
Borrower and the Azersu. 

The SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the SAWMA. 

The revised Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Azersu 
and the SAWMA. 

The Azersu has appointed all the necessary  members in the PIU within 
its  International  Relations  &  Development  Department  (IRDD), 
including  one  more  procurement  officer,  in  accordance  with  terms  of 
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

4

 
5.02.  The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 

The  SAWMA  has  appointed  all  the  necessary  members  in  its  PIU, 
including  one  procurement  consultant,  in  accordance  with  terms  of 
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  has  ensured  that  the  contracts  with  suitably  qualified 
construction management firms for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project have 
been signed, with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 

The  Financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 

The  Azersu  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified 
by  the  Borrower  and  the  Azersu,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the 
Borrower and the Azersu in accordance with its terms. 

The SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by  the  Borrower  and  the  SAWMA,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the 
Borrower and the SAWMA in accordance with its terms. 

The  Project  Agreement  I  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the 
Azersu  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Azersu  in  accordance  with  its 
terms. 

(e) 

 
(f) 

 
(g) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

The  Project  Agreement  II  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the 
SAWMA  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  SAWMA  in  accordance  with 
its terms. 

 
5.03.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

5

Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 

 

Telex:   
 
142116 BNKSL 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 

By /s/ Gregory Jedrzejczak 

 

 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Samir Sharifov 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objective of the Project is to improve the availability, quality, reliability and 

sustainability of water supply and sanitation services of the Borrower. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Component A: Rayon Investment

1. 
Rehabilitation  and  extension  of  water  supply  and  sewerage  systems,  as  well  as 
facilities for water, wastewater and sludge treatment in the Selected Rayons in Azersu’s 
Service Areas. 

2. 
Rehabilitation  and  extension  of  water  supply  and  sewerage  systems,  as  well  as 
facilities  for  water,  wastewater  and  sludge  treatment  in  the  Selected  Rayons  in 
SAWMA’s Service Areas. 

Component B: Institutional Modernization

1. 
Capacity building and modernization of the Azersu and its subsidiary companies, 
through: (a) the provision of training for management, financial management, customer 
service, procurement, preventive maintenance and other  subjects  pertinent  to  effective 
and  efficient  management  of  the  utilities;  (b)  development  of  performance  monitoring, 
preventive  maintenance  and  leak  detection  and  repair;  and  (c)  design  and  technical 
support  for  construction  management,  including  procurement  support  and  contract 
supervision for the investments. 

2. 
Capacity building and modernization of the SAWMA, through: (a) the provision 
of  training  for  management,  financial  management,  customer  service,  procurement, 
preventive  maintenance  and  other  subjects  pertinent 
to  effective  and  efficient 
management  of  the  utilities;  (b)  development  of  performance  monitoring,  preventive 
maintenance  and  leak  detection  and  repair;  and  (c)  design  and  technical  support  for 
construction  management,  including  procurement  support  and  contract  supervision  for 
the investments. 

Component C: Project Management

Strengthening  of  the  management  capacity  of  the  Azersu  to  monitor  and 

1. 
administer implementation of the Project, including audit. 

7

Strengthening  of  the  management  capacity  of  the  SAWMA  to  monitor  and 

2. 
administer implementation of the Project.  

8

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

The Borrower shall cause the Azersu to undertake the responsibility with regard 
to the financial management, financial reporting and audits for the Project. 

The Borrower shall cause the Azersu to ensure that all goods, works and services 
required for the carrying out of Components A.1, B.1 and C.1 of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with the provision of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  SAWMA  to  ensure  that  all  goods,  works  and 
services  required  for  the  carrying  out  of  Components  A.2,  B.2  and  C.2  of  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance  with  the  provision  of  Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Loan 
Agreement. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Azersu and the SAWMA shall retain, during 
the implementation of Components A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the services of a 
construction  management  company  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  until  the  Bank’s 
assessment has determined that the Azersu and/or the SAWMA have the capacity 
to take over such a responsibility independently. 

Azersu Subsidiary Agreement 

To facilitate the carrying out of the Azersu’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Borrower  shall  make  part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Azersu 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Azersu, under terms 
and conditions agreed by the Bank (“Azersu Subsidiary Agreement”).  

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Azersu Subsidiary Agreement in 
such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Azersu Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 

9

SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement 

To facilitate the carrying out of the SAWMA’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to the SAWMA 
under  a  subsidiary  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  the  SAWMA,  under 
terms and conditions agreed by the Bank (“SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement”).  

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SAWMA Subsidiary Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SAWMA Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 

D. 

Anti-Corruption 

Safeguards. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

The Borrower shall cause the Azersu and SAWMA, for their Respective Parts of 
the Project, to ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the EMP, 
FEA and RPF shall be taken in a timely manner. 

In  case  any  activities  under  the  Project  involve  any  use  of  water  from 
(a) 
existing  dams  or  dams  under  construction,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Azersu  and/or  the  SAWMA  shall,  for  their  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project, 
arrange for one or more independent dam specialists, acceptable to the Bank, to: 
(i)  inspect  and  evaluate  the  safety  status  of  the  existing  dam  or  dam  under 
construction,  its  appurtenances,  and  its  performance  history;  (ii)  review  and 
evaluate  the  owner's  operation  and  maintenance  procedures;  and  (iii)  provide  a 
written report of findings and recommendations for any remedial work or safety-
related  measures  necessary  to  upgrade  the  existing  dam  or  dam  under 
construction to an acceptable standard of safety, prior to commencing any such 
activities. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Azersu  and/or  the  SAWMA  shall 
(b) 
carry  out  their  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the 
recommendations set forth in the report referred to in subparagraph (iii) above. 

C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

E. 

1. 

2. 

 

10 

 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 

Project Reports   

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of  the  period  covered  by  such 
report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Procurement 

Section III. 
 
A. 

General 

Goods  and  Works.      All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

11 

 

3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 

Procurement Method 

(i) 
(ii)  

(ii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vi) 

(viii) 
(ix) 

(x) 

there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder; 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works procurement and 
shall be conducted only for large works contracts; 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring 
entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available budget; 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation. 

(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 

12 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
 

(a) Quality-based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-source Selection 
 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

General   

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

 

 
3. 

13 

amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(a) for Component A.1 of  

670,000 

the Project 

(b) for Component A.2 of  

330,000 

(1)  Works 
 

the Project 

 
 
(2)  Goods 
 

(a) for Components A.1 and 

139,645,000 

B.1 of the Project 

(b) for Components A.2 and 

68,780,000 

B.2 of the Project 

 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 

     

575,000 

 

 

(4) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 

 

0 

(5) Unallocated 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

    
 
 

20,000,000 

230,000,000

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(net of VAT) 
 

75% 

 

 

75% 

Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement 
 

14 

 

B. 
 
1. 

2. 
 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
The Closing Date is February 28, 2013. 

15 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment  Date[,  such  repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct 
any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies.] 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.42 % 
2.50 % 
2.59 % 
2.68 % 
2.78 % 
2.87 % 
2.97 % 
3.08 % 
3.19% 
3.30 % 
3.41 % 
3.53 % 
3.66 % 
3.78 % 
3.92% 
4.05 % 
4.20 % 
4.34 % 
4.49% 
4.65 % 
4.81 % 
4.98 % 
5.16 % 
5.34 % 
5.52% 
5.78 % 

1. 

 

 

October 15, 2012 
April 15, 2013 
October 15, 2013 
April 15, 2014 
October 15, 2014 
April 15, 2015 
October 15, 2015 
April 15, 2016 
October 15, 2016 
April 15, 2017 
October 15, 2017 
April 15, 2018 
October 15, 2018 
April 15, 2019 
October 15, 2019 
April 15, 2020 
October 15, 2020 
April 15, 2021 
October 15, 2021 
April 15, 2022 
October 15, 2022 
April 15, 2023 
October 15, 2023 
April 15, 2024 
October 15, 2024 
April 15, 2025 

16 

2.  

 

 

 

4. 

3. 

(a) 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date[, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 

 

 
5. 

Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

17 

 

18 

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Azersu”  means  “Azersu”  Joint  Stock  Company  of  Republic  of  Azerbaijan, 
established  under  the  Presidential  Decree  No.  252  on  June  11,  2004,  which  is 
also the Project Implementing Entity. 

“Azersu Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Azersu. 

“Azersu’s Legislation” means its Charter, which was approved by the Decree No. 
50 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower, dated March 22, 2005, and the 
Presidential Resolution No. 252 on June 11, 2004. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“EMP”  means  the  Environmental  Management  Plan,  dated  January  4,  2008, 
setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment. 

“FEA” means the Framework Environmental Assessment, dated January 4, 2008, 
setting  forth  the  framework  of  environmental  assessment  to  be  carried  out  in 
order to mitigate any adverse impact to the environment. 

“Financing  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  the 
Association  for  the  Project,  of  the  same  date  as  this  Agreement,  as  such 
agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” includes 
all  appendices,  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  the  Financing 
Agreement. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 17, 2007). 

 

11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

19 

“PIU”  means  the  Project  Implementation  Unit  within  the  IRDD  of  the  Azersu 
and/or the SAWMA, responsible for the implementation of the Project. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  March  13,  2008,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted  pursuant  to  Section  5.01  (c)  of  this  Agreement,  setting  forth  the 
operational,  maintenance  and  administrative  procedures  for  the  implementation 
of the Project. 

“RPF”  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  dated  February  28,  2008, 
defining  the  modalities  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of 
displaced persons under Components A and C of the Project. 

“SAWMA”  means  the  State  Amelioration  and  Water  Management  Agency  of 
Nakhchivan  Autonomous  Republic,  which  is  also  the  Project  Implementing 
Entity. 

“SAWMA’s  Legislation”  means  the  Decree  of  the  Supreme  Parliament  of 
Nakhchivan  Autonomous  Republic  on 
the  State 
Amelioration and Water Management Agency on the basis of State Amelioration 
and  Water  Management  Committee  under  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  of 
Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, dated October 27, 2004 (Decree No. 160-II 
FR).

the  Establishment  of 

“SAWMA  Subsidiary  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section 
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the SAWMA. 

“Selected  Rayons  in  Azersu’s  Service  Areas”  means  Rayons  of  Imishli, 
Kurdamir,  Siyazan,  Aghsu,  Ismayili,  Udjar,  Zardab,  Lenkoran,  Masalli,  Astara, 
Jaliabad,  Yardimli,  Lerik,  Davachi,  Dashkesan  and  Gadabey,  subject  to 
modifications as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time. 

“Selected  Rayons  in  SAWMA’s  Service  Areas”  means  Rayons  of  Sadarak, 
Kangarli,  Shahbuz,  Djulfa,  Ordubad,  subject  to  modifications  as  the  Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time. 

20 

“VAT”  means the  value-added tax, levied  in accordance  with  the  legislation  of 
the Borrower. 

 

21. 

 

