CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7516-AZ 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Additional Financing for Second Highway Project) 
 

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated December 16, 2008 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  December  16,  2008,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  AZERBAIJAN 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  additional  financing  for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  three  hundred  million  Dollars 
($300,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

2

2.05.  The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.04  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  ARS  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  the 
Project Agreement. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

3

 

3.03.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the 

Borrower shall:  

 

(a) 

(b) 

maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account in Manat 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to finance its counterpart 
contribution to the expenditures of the Project; 

make an initial deposit in Manat into the Project Account of no less than 
five  million  Dollars  equivalent  ($5,000,000)  within  thirty  (30)  days  of 
the first withdrawal under the Loan, and thereafter during each following 
month deposit into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the 
Borrower’s  counterpart  contributions  for  each  such  quarter,  as 
determined by the Borrower and the Bank; and 

(c) 

ensure  that  the  funds  deposited  into  the  Project  Account  shall  be  used 
exclusively  to  finance  the  Borrower’s  counterpart  contributions  to  the 
Project. 

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 

The Presidential Decree on the Measures to Improve  Management of Transport 
and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated February 22, 2007, or the Decree of 
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  dated  November  15,  2007  has  been  amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the  ability  of  the  ARS  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project 
Agreement. 

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 

The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVE DATE; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the ARS. 

(a) 

 

4

(b) 

The  revised  Operational  Manual  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  has  been 
finalized and submitted to the Bank. 

5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following. 
 

The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and  the  ARS,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  ARS  in 
accordance with its terms. 

 
5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
83 Samed Vurgun Street 
Baku AZ1022 
Republic of Azerbaijan 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

Telex:   
 
142116 BNKSL 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

5

AGREED at Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 

By: /s/ Samir Sharifov 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Gregory Jedrzejczak 

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

 

The objective of the Project is to reduce road transport costs and improve access, 
transit  and  road  safety  by  upgrading  and  rehabilitating  selected  sections  of  the  existing 
East-West and North-South corridors. 
 

The  Project  consists  of  the  Original  Project  and  the  following  revised  and 

additional parts: 
 

Part A: Road Improvement Program

3. 
Improvement of selected local roads connecting to the Alat-Masalli portion of the 
Alat-Astara-Iranian  Border  Highway  (M3),  the  Baku-Shamakhi-Muganli  road  (M4), 
Ujar-Kurdemir road (M2) and the Tagiyev-Sahil Highway (R6). 
 
7. 
 
Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration

Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Tagiyev – Sahil Highway (R6). 

Institutional strengthening of  the Ministry  of Transport and  ARS  by  supporting 
their  on-going  activities  in  road  management  systems  and  operations,  as  well  as  their 
long-term capacity building efforts, including provision of road maintenance equipment, 
consultants’ services, training, goods and related technical services. 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements 

1. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

D. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall,  until  the  completion  of  the  Project,  cause  the  ARS  to 
maintain the PIU and shall ensure that the PIU is adequately staffed by personnel 
with  qualifications  and  under  terms  of  reference  and  functions  at  all  times  in 
accordance with procedures necessary and appropriate for the carrying out of the 
Project, and satisfactory to the Bank. 

Subsidiary Agreement 

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  ARS  under  a  subsidiary  agreement  between  the 
Borrower  and  the  ARS,  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”). 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such 
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 

C. 

Anti-Corruption 

Safeguards 

The Borrower shall ensure that all activities under the Project, which are financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, are carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  apply  the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Operational Manual, 
the EMF, and the RPF; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived,  the  Operational  Manual,  the  EMF,  and  the  RPF,  or  any  provision 
thereof,  in  a  manner  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  may  materially  and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 

8

2. 

The Borrower shall: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

ensure that the ARS prepares RAPs according to the RPF; 

maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  and  publicize  or  cause  to  be 
(b) 
publicized, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and determine fairly 
and in good faith, in accordance with the RPF, all complaints raised in relation to 
the implementation of the RAPs by those being resettled (as that term is defined 
in the RAP) or by those in host communities who are adversely affected by the 
implementation  of  the  RPF,  and  take  all  measures  necessary  to  implement  the 
determinations made under such grievance procedures; 

through the ARS, employ a resettlement expert, satisfactory to the Bank, 

(c) 
to conduct an ex post review of the implementation of the RAPs; 

through  the  ARS,  furnish  promptly  to  the  Bank  the  findings  and 

(d) 
recommendations for follow up action resulting from each such review; and 

through  the  ARS,  implement  all  such  recommendations  for  follow  up 

(e) 
action as are agreed with the Bank. 

(a) 
ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of carrying out of the 
Project  comply  with  environmental  standards  and  guidelines  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank; 

ensure that the selection of any road section under Part A of the Project is 

(b) 
done in accordance with the provisions of the EMF; 

(c) 
ensure the complete implementation of the EMPs in a manner acceptable 
to  the  Ban,  including  all  necessary  measures  to  minimize  and  to  mitigate  any 
adverse environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project; and 

maintain 

the  ARS’s  environmental  management  office  and 

(d) 
its 
Maintenance  Department  with  competent  staff  in  adequate  numbers  and  with 
such  responsibilities  and  functions  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as  shall  enable  the 
ARS to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the EMPs. 

3. 

The Borrower, through the ARS, shall: 

9

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 

Project Reports 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 

Procurement 

Section III. 
 
A. 

General 

Goods  and  Works.      All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

 

3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

10 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
 

(a)  Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional 
provisions: 

There shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of 

(i)  
bidder; 

Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple works 
(ii)  
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works projects; 

Entities in which the State or a State official owns a 

(iii) 
shareholding of whatever size shall not be invited to participate in 
tenders for the Government unless they are and can be shown to be 
legally and financially autonomous and they operate under commercial 
law; 

No national preferences may be applied on the basis of the 

(iv) 
origin of products or labor; 

Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 

(v) 
their obligations; 

No “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the 

(vi) 
purchase of bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to 
the cost of producing (copying) the bidding documents; 

In the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they 

(vii) 
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the 
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the available 

11 

budget; 

(viii)  Rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Bank; 

(ix)  Works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration 
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions; and 

Prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any 

(x) 
modification in the contract scope and conditions during 
implementation. 

(c)  Shopping 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
 

(a)  Quality-based Selection 
 
(b)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(c)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(d)  Single-source Selection 
 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
  Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

 

 

12 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(net of VAT) 

299,250,000 

70% 

Category 

consultants’ services, 
training and 
incremental operating 
costs for the Project 

(1)  Goods, works, 
 
 
 
 
 
(2)  Front-end Fee 

 

750,000 

Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
 
Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 

(3)  Premia for Interest Rate 

Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 

 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

0

 

300,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 

 

 
2. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

13 

 

 

The Closing Date is February 28, 2013. 

Other Undertakings 

2. 
 
Section V. 
 
A. 

1. 
The Borrower shall ensure, through the ARS, that any road works to be 
carried out under Part A (3) of the Project with annual average daily traffic: (a) 
above 250 vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 12%; (b) between 
150 and 250 vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 10%; and (c) 
below  150  vehicles,  have  an  economic  rate  of  return  of  at  least  8%,  all  to  be 
calculated in accordance with the methodology acceptable to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  permit  the  use  of  standards  recommended  by  the 
2. 
European Committee for Standardization on design and construction of roads and 
highways (in addition to the national standards) in the design and construction of 
road works under the Project. 

14 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
2.42% 
2.50% 
2.59% 
2.68% 
2.78% 
2.87% 
2.97% 
3.08% 
3.19% 
3.30% 
3.41% 
3.53% 
3.66% 
3.78% 
3.92% 
4.05% 
4.20% 
4.34% 
4.49% 
4.65% 
4.81% 
4.98% 
5.16% 
5.34% 

 
1. 

 

 

June 15, 2012 
December 15, 2012 
June 15, 2013 
December 15, 2013 
June 15, 2014 
December 15, 2014 
June 15, 2015 
December 15, 2015 
June 15, 2016 
December 15, 2016 
June 15, 2017 
December 15, 2017 
June 15, 2018 
December 15, 2018 
June 15, 2019 
December 15, 2019 
June 15, 2020 
December 15, 2020 
June 15, 2021 
December 15, 2021 
June 15, 2022 
December 15, 2022 
June 15, 2023 
December 15, 2023 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

 

 

4. 

15 

June 15, 2024 
December 15, 2024 

5.52% 
5.78% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 

 

 
5. 

exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

16 

 

17 

APPENDIX 

 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

“ARS” means the “Azerroadservice” Open Joint-stock Company, or Azerbaijan 
Road  Service,  which  is  also  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  established  as  an 
Open Joint-stock  Company  through  the  Presidential Decree  on the  Measures  to 
Improve Management of Transport and Road Complex (Decree No. 1992), dated 
February 22, 2007, and Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, dated November 15, 
2007,  whose  responsibilities  were  transferred  from  the  Road  Transport  Service 
Department  LLC  (RTSD)  within  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Transport,  which 
was established by the Order of the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower (Order 
No. 03), dated June 23, 2003. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 

“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework, dated November 16, 
2005,  outlining  the  procedures  for  the  environmental  screening,  management, 
consultation and disclosure related to the selection of the road sections under the 
Project. 

“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, dated December 3, 2005, or 
any  other  Environmental  Management  Plan  to  be  prepared  by  the  Borrower  in 
accordance with the EMF and approved by the Bank, describing environmental 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for selected road sections under 
the Project. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting from January 1 of 
each year. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through October 17, 2007). 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

8. 

 

 

 

18 

 

9. 

10. 
 
11. 

12. 

13. 

15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

14. 

“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 

“Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
PIU  on  account  of  reasonable  and  necessary  activities  directly  related  to  the 
Project  implementation,  management  and  monitoring,  including  office supplies, 
travel and salaries, but excluding the salaries of the civil servants, and any other 
expenditures that may be agreed upon by the Bank. 

“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 

 “Manat” means the currency of the Borrower. 

“Operational  Manual”  means  the  manual,  outlining,  inter  alia,  the  institutional, 
disbursement,  procurement,  and  environmental  and  social  management 
arrangements  for  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  dated  May  3,  2006,  as  the 
same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  approval  of  the  Bank,  and  such 
term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual. 

“Original  Loan  Agreement”  means  the  loan  agreement  for  a  Second  Highway 
Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated May 16, 2006, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7356-AZ). 

“PIU”  means the Project Implementation Unit as established by the Borrower’s 
internal order (Order No. 16k), dated May 1, 2001 within the ARS. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  March  6,  2008  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project Account” means the project account used for the Borrower’s counterpart 
financing for the Project, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement. 

“RAP”  means  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  prepared  by  the  Borrower  as 
implementing  recommendation  of  the  RPF  (as  hereinafter  defined)  for  selected 
road sections under the Project. 

RPF”  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  dated  November  18,  2005, 
defining  the  modalities  for  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of 
displaced persons under Part A of the Project. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19 

 

21. 

22. 

 

 

 

“Subsidiary  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 

“Training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower and the PIU in connection 
with carrying out training activities under the Project including travel costs and 
per  diem  for  local  trainees  and  trainers,  study  tours  and  workshops,  rental  of 
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies. 

23. 

“VAT” means the value-added tax, levied in the territory of the Borrower. 

