CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7558-CN 
 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Xi’an Sustainable Urban Transport Project) 
 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 29, 2008 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  September  29,
(“Borrower”)  and 

2008,
the  PEOPLE’S  
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”).    The  Borrower  and  the  Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 

between 

ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  million 
Dollars  ($150,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 

- 2 -

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(a) 

2.07. 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.08.  On  each  of  the  semiannual  Payment  Dates  specified  in  Section  2.05  of  this 
Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, the interest 
on  the  Loan  accrued  and payable  on  or  before  the date  set  forth,  and up  to the 
amount  allocated  in,  Category  (4)  of  the  table  in  paragraph  A.2,  Section  IV, 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Category  may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 

 
ARTICLE III – PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, 
the  Project 
Implementing Entity to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 

through  Shaanxi  Province,  cause 

the  Borrower  shall, 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 

- 3 -

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that, any 
of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any 
of its respective obligations thereunder. 

 

ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 

 

(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

- 4 -

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People’s  Republic  of  China,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

By 

/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By 

/s/ David Dollar 
Authorized Representative 

- 5 -

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  the  Borrower  to  improve  transport 
accessibility and mobility in Xi’an Municipality while protecting its cultural heritage and 
reducing the environmental impact of the urban transport system. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

 
Part A: Road Network  
 
1.  

 
Part B: Public Transport   
 
1. 

 
2. 

2. 

 
3. 

 
Part C: Traffic Management 
 

Improvements  at  selected  sites  to  enhance  the  functionality  of  the  First  and 
Second  Ring  Roads  and  Taibai  Nan  Road  as  major  traffic  routes  in  Xi’an 
Municipality.  

Upgrading  of  the  road  network  by  improvement  of  the  existing  Xincheng  and 
Dongcheng  primary  roads  and  of  the  existing  Meibei  secondary  road,  and 
construction  of  the  new  Lvgong  primary  road,  including  a  rail  underpass,  to 
improve accessibility in the urban area of Hu Xian within Xi’an Municipality.   

Construction  of  two  new  passenger  transport  terminals  to  be  located  in  the:  
(i)  eastern  part  of  Xi’an  Municipality;  and  (ii)  southern  part  of  Xi’an 
Municipality. 

Development  and  implementation  of  integrated  public  transport  priority  and 
traffic  management  packages  in  about  thirteen  (13)  selected  bus  corridors  in 
Xi’an  Municipality  with  a  total  length  of  about  130  kilometers,  including 
provision of technical assistance therefor. 

Construction of a bus depot at Xinzhu to enable the expansion of services in the 
north east sector of Xi’an Municipality between the Second and Third ring roads.    

Development and implementation of selected traffic management and road safety 
measures  to  enhance  the  operation  of  the  existing  road  network  in  Xi’an 
Municipality,  including  enforcement  of  road  user  education  programs,  and 
provision of: (i) an area traffic control (ATC) system; (ii) road safety equipment 
and software: (iii) vehicle parking equipment; (iv) traffic facilities for pedestrian 
and cyclists; and (v) technical assistance therefor.  

- 6 -

Part D:  Air Quality Management    
 

Implementation  of  Xi’an  Municipality  Environmental  Protection  Bureau’s 
comprehensive  plans  for  air  quality  improvement  and  reduction  of  vehicular 
emissions,  including:  (i)  construction  of  Xi'an  Municipality  Ambient  Air 
Supervising  and  Monitoring  Center;  (ii)  provision  of  equipment  for  motor 
vehicle  emission  inspections;  (iii)  construction  of  two  ambient  air  quality 
monitoring  sub-stations  and  two  traffic  air  pollution  monitoring  sub-stations 
and provision of equipment for those sub-stations; (iv) provision of equipment 
and  software  for  air  quality  assessment  and  information  publication;  (v) 
development  of  a  motor  vehicle  emission  control  plan;  and  (vi)  provision  of 
technical assistance therefor.  

 
Part E: Cultural Heritage    
 
1. 

Preservation of the cultural heritage of the Han Chang’an site by recreating about 
8.4 kilometres of the old Han Dynasty road network in the area of the Weiyang 
Palace. 

Construction  of  about  27  kilometers  of  bicycle  routes  around  the  main  tourist 
sites inside the Ming Wall City.  

 
Part F: Institutional Development    

 
Strengthening  of  the  institutional  capacity  of  Xi’an  Municipality  in  integrated 
public transport planning and development through, inter alia:  

carrying out studies on: (a) strategic urban transport planning; and (b) financial 
planning for investments in transport infrastructure in order to develop capacity 
to formulate investment plans;  
 
provision  of  technical  assistance  to  improve  capacity  in  the  areas  of  traffic 
management and road safety; and  

provision of domestic and international staff training.  

 
2. 

 
1. 

2. 

 
3.  
 

- 7 -

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

A. 
 
1. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

A. 
 
1. 

2. 

Section I. 

Financing Arrangement; Institutional and Other Arrangements

Financing Arrangement 

The  Borrower, 
the  Project 
through  Shaanxi,  shall  make  available 
Implementing  Entity  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  under  terms  and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the following:  

to 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the  date,  or  respective  dates,  of  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account)  of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   

The principal amount so made available shall be recovered over a period 
of twenty-five (25) years, inclusive of a grace period of six (6) years. 

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest 
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 

A Front-end Fee shall be charged at a rate equal to the rate paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

 
Anti-Corruption 

Project Reports 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.    Each 
Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be 
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  the 
period covered by such report.   

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

- 8 -

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited 
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  six  (6)  months  period  of  each 
Project Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Goods  and  Works. All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   

Definitions. The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.   

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  

International  Competitive  Bidding. Except  as  otherwise  provided 
in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.   

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  and  National 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 

- 9 -

Procurement Method 

(a) National Competitive Bidding 

(b) Shopping 

National Competitive Bidding Procedures. Goods and Works procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures shall 
be subject to the following additional procedures: 

The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those  set  forth  in  the  Law  on  Tendering  and  Bidding  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China promulgated  by  Order  No.21  of the  President  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  on  August  30,  1999,  with  the  following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines: 

(a) 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(iii) 

 
(iv) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a 
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower’s  country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods  contracts  that  are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be  advertised 
in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such 
advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective 
bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty  (30)  days  shall  be  given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of 
advertisement 
for 
the  advertisement  and  bidding 
submission  of  bids,  and 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   

in  such  newspaper  and 

the  deadline 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of 
evaluating  the  qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount 
sufficient  to  protect  the  Borrower  or  Project  Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    

3. 

 

 

- 10 -

Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 

 
(vii)  All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 

 
(viii)  No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or  bracket  of 
average bids established by the Borrower, Xi’an Municipality or 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards  of  capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been 
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding 
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents  or  otherwise  to  modify  the  bid  as  originally 
submitted. 

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance  of  the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 

(v) 

 
(vi) 

 
(ix) 

 
(x) 

 
(xi) 

Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower’s  country  may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they  can  establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially 
autonomous; (B) operate under commercial law; and (C) are not 
a dependent agency of the agency conducting the procurement. 

 
(xii)  Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 

bids is less than three (3). 

 

- 11 -

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.   

Procurement Method 
 

(a)  Quality based selection 

(c)  Single source selection 

(d) 

Individual Consultants 

(b)  Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) all contracts 
for  goods  and  civil  works  procured  through  International  Competitive  Bidding 
regardless  of  the  contract  value;  (b)  each  contract  for  civil  works  estimated  to 
cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more; (c)  all contracts for goods procured 
through  National  Competitive  Bidding  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of 
$300,000 or more; (d) the first contract for each procurement method regardless 
of the contract value; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to 
cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000  or  more  for  firms,  and  $50,000  or  more  for 
individuals.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures, inclusive of 
taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 

C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

- 12 -

amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(USD) 

 

Percentage of 
expenditures 
to be financed 
 

Category 

(1) Civil Works 

a) under Parts A, B, C and E.2 
of the Project 
b) under Part D of the Project 
c) under Part E.1 of the Project 

(2) Goods 

a) under Parts B, D, and E of 
the Project 
b) under Part C of the Project 

(3) Consultants’ services 

a) under Part C of the Project 
b) under Parts D, F.1(b), F.2 
and F.3 of the Project 
c) under Part F.1(a) of the 
Project 

(4) Interest during construction 

98,829,000 
3,312,000 
8,049,000 

10,292,000 
10,822,000 
 
2,423,000 

2,190,000 

845,000 
12,863,000 

(5) Front-end Fee 

375,000 

50% 
55% 
90% 
 

100% 
50% 
 
90% 

100% 

40% 

Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement 
Amount payable 
pursuant to  
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

TOTAL 

150,000,000 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for:  

(a) 
 
(b)  

payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and  

expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3) unless:  

 

B. 
 
1. 

 

 

- 13 -

(i) 

 
(ii) 

the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
Infrastructure 
the  Project 
Investment Corporation of Xi’an; and  

Implementing  Entity  and 

the 

a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, from counsel acceptable 
to  the  Bank  has  been  provided  to  the  Bank  showing  that  the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Infrastructure 
Investment Corporation of Xi’an and is legally binding upon the 
Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Infrastructure  Investment 
Corporation of Xi’an in accordance with its terms. 

 
2. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2015. 

 

- 14 -

SCHEDULE 3 

Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

1. 

 

Principal Payment Date 

September 15, 2014 
March 15, 2015 
September 15, 2015 
March 15, 2016 
September 15, 2016 
March 15, 2017 
September 15, 2017 
March 15, 2018 
September 15, 2018 
March 15, 2019 
September 15, 2019 
March 15, 2020 
September 15, 2020 
March 15, 2021 
September 15, 2021 
March 15, 2022 
September 15, 2022 
March 15, 2023 
September 15, 2023 
March 15, 2024 
September 15, 2024 
March 15, 2025 
September 15, 2025 
March 15, 2026 
September 15, 2026 
March 15, 2027 
September 15, 2027 
March 15, 2028 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
1.61% 
1.65% 
1.69% 
1.73% 
1.78% 
1.82% 
1.87% 
1.91% 
1.96% 
2.01% 
2.06% 
2.11% 
2.17% 
2.22% 
2.27% 
2.33% 
2.39% 
2.45% 
2.51% 
2.57% 
2.64% 
2.70% 
2.77% 
2.84% 
2.91% 
2.98% 
3.06% 
3.14% 

- 15 -

September 15, 2028 
March 15, 2029 
September 15, 2029 
March 15, 2030 
September 15, 2030 
March 15, 2031 
September 15, 2031 
March 15, 2032 
September 15, 2032 
March 15, 2033 

3.21% 
3.29% 
3.38% 
3.46% 
3.55% 
3.64% 
3.73% 
3.82% 
3.92% 
3.85% 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

2.  

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

- 16 -

 

- 17 -

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.   

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 

“EMP”  means  the  Environmental  Management  Plan  dated  April  2008  duly 
adopted by Xi’an Municipality, which Plan sets out the environmental protection 
measures  in  respect  of  the  Project,  as  well  as  administrative  and  monitoring 
arrangements  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  said  plan,  as  the  same  may  be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.   

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005,  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

“Infrastructure Investment Corporation of Xi’an” and the acronym “IIC” means 
the  corporation  established  by  Xi’an  as  a  state-owned  enterprise  on  
July 18, 2000, under business license no.6101001400306. 

“Ming  Walled  City”  means  the  area  of  the  Ming  Dynasty  City  demarked  by  a 
high brick wall and located in Xi’an Municipality. 

“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  April  24,  2008,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project Financial Manual” means the manual dated March 31, 2008 adopted by 
Xi’an  Municipality,  which  sets  out  the  financial  management  policies  and 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 
 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

- 18 -

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

procedures  to  be  followed  in  respect  of  Project  implementation  and  financial 
management reports. 

“Project  Implementing  Entity”  and  the  acronym  “PIE”  means  the  Xi’an 
Municipality. 

“Project  Implementation  Plan”  and  the  acronym  “PIP”  means  the  plan  dated 
April  30,  2008,  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  for  the  purpose  of 
carrying  out  the  Project,  which  plan  set  out,  inter  alia:  (i)  an  implementation 
schedule which will clearly identify the start and completion of each activity at 
the  subcomponent  level;  (ii)  Annual  Works  Programs  (AWP);  and  (iii)  a 
Financing Plan.  

the  Committee  established  on  
“Project  Steering  Committee”  means 
March  29,  2005,  by  Xi’an  Municipality,  headed  by  a  Vice-Mayor  of  Xi’an 
Municipality  and  composed  of  representatives  of 
the  following  Xi’an 
Municipality  agencies:  Xi’an  Development  and  Reform  Commission,  Xi’an 
Municipal  Finance  Bureau,  Xi’an Municipal  Planning  Bureau, Xi’an  Municipal 
Construction  Bureau,  Xi’an  Municipal  Environmental  Protection  Bureau,  Xi’an 
Municipal  Communication  Bureau,  Xi’an  Municipal  Civil  Administration 
Bureau, Xi’an Municipal National Land and Resources Bureau, Xi’an Municipal 
Cultural  Heritage  Bureau,  Xi’an  Municipal  Public  Security  Bureau  and  Xi’an 
Infrastructure  Investment  Corporation,  for  the  purpose  of  providing  overall 
policy  guidance  in  Project  preparation  and  implementation,  and  any  successor 
thereto.   

“RAPs”  means  the  Resettlement  Action  Plans  dated  September  1,  2007,  
April 2008, June 2007, and May 31, 2007, duly adopted by Xi’an Municipality 
and  to  be  implemented    by  the  Project  Implementation  Entity  for  purposes  of 
carrying out Parts A, B.1(ii), D and E.1 of the Project, respectively, which plans 
sets  out  the  principles  and  procedures  governing  land  acquisition,  resettlement, 
compensation  and  rehabilitation  under  such  Parts  of  the  Project,  as  well  as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as 
the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and 
such term includes all attachments and annexes supplemental to each said plans.   

“RPF”  means  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  dated  April  2007,  duly 
adopted  by  Xi’an  Municipality  and  to  be  implemented    by  the  Project 
Implementation Entity for purposes of carrying out the Project and on the basis 
of  which  specific  resettlement  action  plans  shall  be  prepared  and  adopted  by 
Xi’an Municipality  and  implemented    by  the  Project Implementation  Entity  for 
carrying  out  Parts  B.1(i),  B.2  and  B.3  of  the  Project,  which  Policy  Framework 
sets  out  the  principles  and  procedures  governing  land  acquisition,  resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation under such Part of the Project to be set forth in a 
resettlement action plan or action plans, as the case may be, as well as reporting 
and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said Policy Framework 

- 19 -

and plans, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of 
the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all  attachments  and  annexes  supplemental  to 
said RPF and action plan or action plans.  

“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Shaanxi Province and any successor thereto.    

“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  Xi’an  Muncipality  shall  make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to IIC. 

“Xi’an  Municipality”  or  “Xi’an”  means  the  municipality  of  the  Borrower’s 
Shaanxi  Province,  comprising  nine  districts  (Baqiao,  Beilin,  Changan,  Lianhu, 
Lintong, Weiyang, Xincheng, Yanliang, and Yanta) and four counties (Gaoling, 
thereto.
Hu  Xian  Lantian 

and  Zhouzhi) 

successor 

and 

any 

 
17. 
 
18. 

 
19. 

 

