CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7565-PK 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Electricity Distribution and Transmission Improvement Project) 
 

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated July 14, 2008 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  July  14,  2008,  between  the  ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC  OF 
PAKISTAN  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   

 
Whereas  the  Borrower  has  requested  the  Association  to  provide  additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith 
(“Financing  Agreement”)  between  the  Borrower  and  the  International  Development 
Association  (“Association”),  the  Association  is  agreeing  to  provide  such  assistance  as 
follows:  (1)  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equal  to  eighteen  million  seven  hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,700,000) (“Portion A of the Credit”); and 
(2) thirty-two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,300,000) 
(“Portion B of the Credit”) (collectively referred to as “Financing”) 
 

Whereas  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  intend,  to  the  extent  practicable,  that  the 
proceeds of Financing and the Loan will be disbursed in the following order on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project: first proceeds of Portion B of the Credit, followed 
by proceeds of Portion A of the Credit, and finally proceeds of the Loan. 

 
Now therefore, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred seventy three million 
six  hundred thousand  United  States  dollars  (USD173,600,000),  as  such  amount 
may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to 
assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement 
(“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

- 2 -

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

- 3 -

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project  and  the 
Program.    To  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  its  Respective  Parts  of  the 
Project through PEPCO, and cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out 
their  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  the  respective  Project  Implementing 
Entities’ Project Agreements. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, that the 
respective Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation, the NEPRA Act and/or the 
NEPRA SRO have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  any  of  the  Project 
Implementing  Entities  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  its  respective 
Project Agreement. 

 
4.02. 

The  Additional  Events  of  Acceleration  consist  of  the  following,  namely,  that 
any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:  
 

the  Subsidiary  Agreements  have  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities; and 

all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement 
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement. 

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the 
Subsidiary  Agreements  have  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entities and are legally binding upon the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entities in accordance with their terms. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

- 4 -

5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  the  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint 
Secretary,  Deputy  Secretary  or  Section  Officer  of  the  Borrower’s  Economic 
Affairs Division, acting individually. 

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Phone:   
 
92-51-9203815   

92-51-9218976 

Facsimile: 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 
AGREED at Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 

By 

/s/ Junaid Iqbal Ch. 
Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  

 

 

 

 
 

 

- 5 -

By 

 

/s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
Authorized Representative 

- 6 -

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  the  Borrower  to:  (i)  strengthen  the 
capacity  of  the  distribution  and  transmission  networks  in  Selected  Areas  to  meet  the 
increasing electricity demand more efficiently and with better reliability and quality; and 
(ii)  strengthen  the  institutional  capacity  of  Distribution  Companies  and  support  priority 
areas of the power sector reform. 
 

The  Project  constitutes  the  first  phase  of  the  Program,  and  consists  of  the 

following parts: 
 
Part A: Investment in Distribution Networks

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

of 

and/or 

improving 

conversion 

approximately 

investment  program  aimed  at 

Carrying  out  of  IESCO’s 
its  
sub-transmission network and reducing energy loss through: (i) the construction, 
(19)  
augmentation, 
sub-transmission grid stations, including extension of transformer and line bays 
in approximately six (6) grid stations; (ii) the construction of approximately five 
hundred  fifty  kilometers  (550  km)  of  secondary  transmission  lines;  (iii)  the 
replacement  of  two  (2)  existing  secondary  transmission  lines  (approximately  
44 km); and (iv) the strengthening of the distribution network through, inter alia,
the replacement of D-fuse links and fitting, loose joints in feeders, aged energy 
meters, PG connectors, and faulty earthing, and the installation of sectionalizers 
and capacitor banks. 

nineteen 

Carrying  out  of  LESCO’s  investment  program  aimed  at  improving  its  sub-
transmission  network  through:  (i)  the  construction,  augmentation  and/or 
conversion  of  approximately  twenty  (20)  sub-transmission  grid  stations, 
including  extension of transformer  and  line  bays  in  approximately  five  (5)  grid 
stations;  and  (ii)  the  construction  of  approximately  fifty  kilometers  (50  km)  of 
secondary transmission lines. 

Carrying  out  of  MEPCO’s  investment  program  aimed  at  improving  its  sub-
transmission  network  and  reducing  energy  loss  through:  (i)  the  construction, 
augmentation,  extension  and/or  conversion  of  approximately  twenty  one  (21) 
sub-transmission  grid  stations;  (ii)  the  construction  of  approximately  two 
hundred  kilometers  (200  km)  of  secondary  transmission  lines;  and  (iii)  the 
strengthening of the distribution network through, inter alia, the refurbishment of 
feeders,  the  installation  of  capacitator  banks,  the  augmentation/installation  of 
distribution transformers and the replacement of faulty energy meters. 

Carrying  out  of  HESCO’s  investment  program  aimed  at  improving  the  sub-
transmission  network  and  reducing  energy  loss,  through:  (i)  the  construction, 

- 7 -

augmentation,  extension  and/or  conversion  of  approximately  thirteen  (13)  sub-
transmission grid stations; (ii) construction of approximately one hundred twenty 
kilometers (120 km) of secondary transmission lines; and (iii) the strengthening 
of the distribution network through, inter alia, the installation of approximately 
four hundred and forty kilometers (440 km) of aerial bunch cable and meters on 
transformers,  the  bifurcation/rehabilitation  of  feeders,  and  the  replacement  of 
consumer meters. 

 
Part B: Investment in Transmission Networks

Carrying  out  NTDC’s  investment  program,  through  the  construction  of:  (i)  a  
220 kV grid station at Kassowal and the acquisition of associated equipment; (ii) 
ten (10) 132 kV and 220 kV line bays and four 132 kV and 220 kV transformer 
bays;  and (iii) two (2)  twin  bundle  double  circuit transmission  lines  connecting 
the Kassowal grid station to the transmission grid. 

 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building

Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MoW&P, PEPCO, NTDC and the 
Distribution  Companies  to  implement  the  Project  and  sectoral  investment 
program and reforms, through: (i) the acquisition of information and technology 
systems;  (ii)  the  carrying  out  of  specialized  studies;  (iii)  the  provision  of  in-
country  and  overseas  training  and  the  revamping  of  in-house  training;  (iv)  the 
provision  of  technical  support  for  Project  implementation  including  office 
automation,  assistance  with  conceptual  and  engineering  designs,  contract 
financial  management, 
legal 
management,  procurement 
environmental  and  social  analysis;  and  (v)  improving  corporate  governance  of 
the Distribution Companies. 

aspects, 

and 

 
Part D: Energy Efficiency

Developing  and  implementing  an  energy  efficiency  program  involving,  inter 
alia: (i) the replacement of incandescent bulbs with compact fluorescent lamps at 
customer  premises;  (ii)  the  provision  of  low-tension  capacitors  to  selected 
industrial  and  tube-well  customers;  and  (iii)  the  provision  of  prepaid  metering, 
automatic meter reading (AMR) and remote metering system (RMS) for various 
categories of selected residential and commercial customers.  

 

- 8 -

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 
 

 

The  Borrower  shall  vest  the  responsibility  for  the  overall  oversight  and 
coordination of the Project in PEPCO. 

The Borrower shall cause PEPCO to: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

maintain,  throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  a  project 
implementation  unit,  which  unit  shall  be  responsible  for  the  day-to-day 
technical,  financial  and  procurement  management  and  coordination  of 
the Borrower’s Respective Parts of the Project; such unit to be provided 
with  sufficient  resources  under  the  direction  of  a  qualified  and 
experienced  manager,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  assisted  by  staff  in 
adequate numbers, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;  

hire,  by  no  later  than  December  31,  2008,  and  thereafter  retain 
throughout  the  project  implementation,  the  services  of  a  qualified  and 
internationally  experienced  procurement  advisor,  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank,  under  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  order  to:  (i) 
strengthen  the  capacity  of  PEPCO’s  procurement  monitoring  cell;  (ii) 
participate  in  PEPCO’s  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entities’  bid 
evaluation meetings, and assist these entities with the preparation of the 
bid evaluation reports; (iii) submit independent reports to PEPCO and the 
Bank on procurement activities carried out by the Project Implementing 
Entities;  (iv)  participate  in  the  inspection  of  the  delivery  of  goods  and 
works  so  procured;  and  (v)  provide  assistance  to  Project  Implementing 
Entities  for  the  strengthening  of  their  procurement  capacity  (including 
the preparation of comprehensive procurement policies and guidelines); 
and 

hire, on an annual basis, independent external auditors satisfactory to the 
Bank, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible 
for  carrying  out  PEPCO’s  annual  audit  and  the  audits  of  the  PEPCO’s 
Project  accounts,  interim  un-audited  financial  reports  and  Financial 
Statements.  The  audit  reports  shall  include  the  independent  auditor’s 
opinion  on  PEPCO’s  compliance  with  the  financial  covenants  and 
reports undertaken by the Borrower as set forth in this Agreement. 

B. 
 
1. 

 

 

 

 
2. 

- 9 -

Subsidiary Agreement 

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entities’  Respective 
Parts  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  under  individual  subsidiary 
agreements between the Borrower and each of the Project Implementing Entities, 
under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  by  the  Bank  (collectively  the  Subsidiary 
Agreements), which shall include the following:  

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

(d) 

 
(e) 

The  payment  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  the  Borrower  of 
interest  charges  on  the  principal  amounts  withdrawn  and  outstanding 
from  time  to  time  under  the  respective  Subsidiary  Agreement  at  a  rate 
not to exceed seventeen percent (17%) per annum; and 

A  minimum  amortization  period  of  fifteen  (15)  years,  inclusive  of  a 
minimum  two  (2)  years  grace  period,  and  no  penalty  for  early 
repayments and/or cancellations;  

The Project Implementing Entities’ undertaking to operate with diligence 
and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  internationally  acceptable 
administrative,  technical,  financial  and  economic  managerial  practices 
and standards, including a proper and transparent accounting system and 
regular  financial  audits 
in  accordance  with  consistently  applied 
accounting and auditing standards;  

The  Borrower’s  and  Project  Implementing  Entities’  understandings  and 
arrangements  for  the  flow  of  funds  (including  disbursement  protocols, 
supporting evidence and reporting requirements therefor); and 

The  Borrower’s  right  to  suspend  or  terminate  the  respective  Subsidiary 
Agreement,  and/or  accelerate  the  recovery  of  any  outstanding  amounts 
withdrawn  thereunder,  upon:  (A)  the  respective  Project  Implementing 
Entity’s  failure  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  its  Subsidiary 
Agreement and/or Project Agreement; or (B) the Bank’s exercising any 
of the remedies under Article VII of the General Conditions. 

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such 
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary 
Agreements or any of its provisions. 

The Borrower shall carry out and/or cause PEPCO and the Project Implementing 
Entities to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Procurement Action Plan. 

- 10 -

Anti-Corruption 

Safeguards 

The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  carry  out  their  Respective 
Parts of the Project with due regard to health-safety, social, cultural and 
environmental  principles,  practices  and  standards  as  reflected  in  their 
respective  Environmental  and  Social  Assessments,  Environmental  and 
Social Management Plans, and/or Resettlement Action Plans, as the case 
may be; and 

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  update  their  respective 
Environmental  Social  Assessments,  Environmental 
and  Social 
Management Plans, and/or Resettlement Action Plans in accordance with 
the  procedures  and  criteria  set  forth  in  their  respective  Environmental 
and Social Guidelines. 

 
(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  and  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to 
ensure,  that  any  civil  works  that  require  land  takings  and  the  resettlement  of 
Displaced Persons shall not be initiated until adequate monetary compensations 
have been paid and/or the appropriate resettlement of all such Displaced Persons 
has  taken  place,  in  accordance  with  their  respective  Resettlement  Action  Plans 
and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08(c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2011. 

C. 
 

 
D. 

1. 

 
2. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

- 11 -

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare,  and  furnish,  and/or  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  prepare 
and furnish, to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements,  and  cause  the  Project 
Implementing  Entities  to  have  their  respective  Financial  Statements,  audited  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the  Borrower.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Goods  and  Works. All  goods  and  works  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions. The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 

International  Competitive  Bidding.
Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

- 12 -

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Works. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plans shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding procedures* 
(b)  Shopping 

*National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  subject  to  the  following  additional 
provisions: 

i. 

 
ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

ix. 

x. 

xi. 

Invitations to bid  shall  be advertised  in  at least  one  national  newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for 
the submission of bids;  

Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;  

Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and price preference 
as per the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to national bidders in the 
bidding process;  

Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms;  

Qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents;  

Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline  for 
submission of bids;  

Bids  shall  not  be  rejected merely  on  the  basis of  a comparison  with  an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank;  

Before  rejecting  all  bids  and  soliciting  new  bids,  the  Bank’s  prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;  

Bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices and not on the basis of a composite schedule of rates;  

Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of prior negotiated rates;  

Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; 
and  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 13 -

xii. 

Post-bidding  price  negotiations  shall  not  be  allowed  with  the  lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plans 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
(a)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  Single Source Selection 
(c)  Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The  Procurement  Plans  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to 
the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by 
the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
C. 
 
1. 

2. 

 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

- 14 -

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
 

 
Amount of 
Portion  A of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 

 
Amount of 
Portion B of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of 
taxes, except for 
Categories (1)(b) 
and (2)(b)) 
100% 

58,496,000 
 

60,290,000 
 

19,670,000 
 

 

0

0

0

0

0

0

Category 

(1)  Goods, works, 

consultants’ 
services, training 
and workshops for:   

 
(a)  IESCO under 

Parts A.1 and C 
of the Project 

 
(b)  LESCO under 

Parts A.2  and C 
of the Project 

 
(c)  MEPCO under 

Parts A.3  and C 
of the Project 

 
(d)  HESCO under 

Parts A.4  and C 
of the Project 

 
(e)  NTDC under 

Parts B and C of 
the Project 

 
(f)  MoW&P through 
PEPCO under 
Part C of the 
Project 
(2)  Goods under Part D 

of the Project for: 

 

 

 

(a)  IESCO  
 
(b)  LESCO 

(c)  MEPCO 
 
(d)  HESCO 

34,710,000 
 

9,500,000 
 

4,360,000 
 

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

25,670,000 
 

2,270,000 
 

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

100% 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of 
taxes, except for 
Categories (1)(b) 
and (2)(b)) 
 Amount payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) 
of the General 
Conditions 
 
Amount payable 
pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of 
this Agreement in 
accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of 
the General 
Conditions 
 

- 15 -

 

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
434,000 

 
Amount of 
Portion  A of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
0 

 
Amount of 
Portion B of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
0 

Category 

(3)  Front-end Fee 

(4)  Premia for Interest 
Rates Caps and 
Interest Rate Collars 

0

0

0

(5)  Unallocated  

0 

9,200,000 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

173,600,000 

18,700,000 

0 
 
32,300,000 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 

B. 
 
1. 

 

payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals up to an  aggregate  amount not  to  exceed  the  equivalent  of 
twenty  three  million  nine  hundred  thousand  United  States  Dollars 
(USD23,900,000) may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on  or  after  April  1,  2008, 
for  Eligible  Expenditures  under  
Categories  (1)(a)  through  (e),  subject  to  the  following  ceilings  per 
Category: 

(i) 

up to USD6,000,000 for Category 1(a); 

(ii) 

Up to USD6,000,000 for Category 1(b); 

(a) 

 

 

- 16 -

(iii) 

Up to USD5,600,000 equivalent for Category 1(c); 

(iv) 

Up to USD4,300,000 equivalent for Category 1(d); and 

(v) 

Up to USD2,000,000 for Category 1(e). 

under  Category  (1)(c)  until,  and  unless,  the  Bank  has  received 
satisfactory evidence that MEPCO has revised the terms of reference of 
its  procurement  consultant,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as 
provided for in paragraph 4 of Section I.A of the Schedule to MEPCO’s 
Project Agreement. 

 
2. 
 
Section V. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 

Other Undertakings

The Borrower undertakes to: 

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  file  tariff  petitions  with 
NEPRA requesting NEPRA’s revision and update of the tariffs structure 
applicable  to  their  respective  services  whenever  the  existing  tariffs  no 
longer meet the standards set forth in Part III (Section 17) of the NEPRA 
SRO; and 

publish  in  the  Official  Gazette  or  file  a  request  for  review  of  any 
regulatory  order,  determination  and/or  decisions  passed  by  NEPRA 
(including  the  revisions  and  updates  of  the  applicable  tariff  structures 
requested  in  accordance  with  sub-paragraph  (a)  above),  no  later  than 
to  
fifteen  (15)  days  as  of  NEPRA’s  final 
sub-section (4) of Section 31 of the NEPRA Act. 

intimation  pursuant 

Without  limitation  to  the  obligations  set  forth  in  Section  5.03  of  the  General 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  undertakes  to  promptly  allocate  and  transfer  on  a 
monthly  basis  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  (and  not  later  than  the  25th 
day of each month), in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedures and 
in  terms  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  any  and  all  subsidies  required  to  compensate 
the  difference  between  the  tariffs  determined  by  NEPRA  and  the  tariffs 
effectively notified by the Borrower. 

In  carrying  out  Part  D  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project 
Implementing Entities to: 
 
(a) 

prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank for review, comments 
and  concurrence,  their  respective  draft  project  description  documents 

 

 

 
(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

1. 
 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

- 17 -

detailing the proposed activities under Part D of the Project, which detail 
shall include: (i) an assessment of the technical, economic and financial 
justification/viability of the activities proposed; (ii) implementation plan; 
(iii) the environmental and social assessment of such activities, whenever 
necessary,  and  the  mitigation  measures  therefor;  and  (iv)  the  proposed 
budget and associated procurement plan (including any arrangements for 
supplementing/strengthening the procurement capacity);  

finalize  such  project  description  documents  based  on  the  drafts  as 
discussed with, and agreed by, the Borrower and the Bank; and  

thereafter,  carry  out  Project  activities  under  Part  D  of  the  Project  in 
accordance  with  their  respective  project  description  documents,  as  so 
approved. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

- 18 -

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

 

 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each March 15and September15  
 

Beginning September 15, 2013  
through March 15, 2038 

 

 

2% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 

- 19 -

principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

 

4. 

 
5. 

- 20 -

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Displaced  Persons”  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic an social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) a relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to another location; 
or  (ii)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  park  and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such persons.  

“Distribution  Companies”  means  collectively  HESCO,  IESCO,  LESCO,  and 
MEPCO, and any successor thereto. 

“Environmental and Social Assessments” means the assessments carried out by 
the  Project  Implementing  Entities  in  form  and  substance,  and  with  terms  of 
reference, satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  dated January  21,  2008,  (HESCO),  October 
31, 2006, (IESCO), March 8, 2007, (LESCO), January 24, 2007, (MEPCO), and 
September  3,  2007,  (NTDC),  respectively  for  purpose  of  appraising  and 
evaluating 
the  Project’s  potential  prospective  positive  and  negative 
environmental  impacts  on  the  Selected  Areas.  The  term  “Environmental  and 
Social Assessment” means each such assessment, individually. 

“Environmental and Social Guidelines” means the guidelines incorporated in the 
respective  Environmental  and  Social  Assessment  of  each  Project  Implementing 
Entity,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  set  forth  the 
principles, procedures and environmental standards and criteria to be applied by 
the  Project  Implementing  Entities  in  preparing  the  regular  updates  of  their 
respective Environmental and Social Assessment and Environmental and Social 
Management Plans, as provided in the respective Project Agreements, in order to 
comprise/cover the work plans for subsequent years of Project implementation.  

 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

- 21 -

8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

“Environmental and Social Management Plans” means, collectively, the plans, in 
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  incorporated  in  the  respective 
Environmental  and  Social  Assessment  of  each  Project  Implementing  Entity, 
providing  for  appropriate  evaluation,  monitoring,  consultation,  mitigation  and 
grievance  redressal  mechanisms,  and  the  institutional  responsibilities  and 
procedures, required to offset or eliminate any potentially adverse environmental 
impact  of  the  Project  (including,  without  limitation,  any  impact  on  physical 
cultural resources and cultural heritage sites), as said plans may be amended from 
time  to  time  with  the  prior  concurrence  of  the  Bank.  The term  “Environmental 
and Social Management Plan” means each such plan, individually. 

“Financial  Management  Manual”  means  PEPCO’s  accounting  systems  manual, 
in  three  volumes,  filed  with  the  Bank,  adopted  and  applied  by  PEPCO  and  the 
their  financial  protocols  and 
to  regulate 
Project  Implementing  Entities 
procedures, including PEPCO’s and the Project Implementing Entities’: (i) charts 
of  accounts  and  guidelines;  (ii)  payroll  procedures;  (iii)  assets  coding  scheme, 
and applicable policies and procedures; (iv) construction projects accounting; (v) 
disbursement;  (vi)  purchasing;  (vii)  budgeting;  and  (viii)  general  accounting 
disbursement; which manual shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, or in 
any  way  waived,  whether in  whole  or in  part,  without  the  prior concurrence  of 
the Bank, if in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment, suspension, abrogation 
or waiver might materially affect the Project Implementing Entities’ carrying out 
of the Project. 

“Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement for the Project between 
Borrower and the International Development Association, dated the same date as 
Loan  Agreement,  as  such  financing  agreement  may  be  amended  from  time  to 
time;  and  “Financing  Agreement”  includes  all  appendices,  schedules  and 
agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.  

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

“HESCO”  means  the  Hyderabad  Electric  Supply  Company,  a  power  utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  and  NEPRA’s  license  05/DL/2002,  and 
the  Joint  Registrar  of  Companies  under  certificate  of 
registered  with 
incorporation No. L-09496, dated April 23, 1998. 

“IESCO”  means  the  Islamabad  Electric  Supply  Company,  a  power  utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  and  NEPRA’s  license  01/DL/2001,  and 
registered  with 
the  Joint  Registrar  of  Companies  under  certificate  of 
incorporation No. L-09499 dated April 25, 1998. 

- 22 -

14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 

“Kassowal”  means  the  locality  of  Kassowal  in  the  Borrower’s  Province  of 
Punjab. 

“LESCO”  means  the  Lahore  Electric  Supply  Company,  a  power  utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  and  NEPRA’s  license  03/DL/2002,  and 
registered  with 
the  Joint  Registrar  of  Companies  under  certificate  of 
incorporation No. L-09415 dated February 18, 1998. 

“MEPCO”  means  the  Multan  Electric  Power  Company,  a  power  utility 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  and  NEPRA’s  license  06/DL/2002,  and 
registered  with 
the  Joint  Registrar  of  Companies  under  certificate  of 
incorporation No. L-09522, dated May 14, 1998. 

“MoW&P”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Water  and  Power,  and  any 
successor thereto. 

“NEPRA” means the Borrower’s National Electric Power Regulatory Authority, 
an independent regulatory agency established and existing under the NEPRA Act 
for  purposes  of  regulating  the  Borrower’s  electric  power  sector;  and/or  any 
successor thereto. 

“NEPRA  Act”  means  the  Borrower’s  Act  XL  of  1997,  for  the  Regulation  of 
Generation, Transmission and Distribution of Electric Power Act. 

“NEPRA SRO” means NEPRA’s Statutory Notification (SRO) 1399 (I)/98, dated 
December 23, 1998, setting forth NEPRA’s tariff standards and procedural rules, 
issued by NEPRA pursuant to Section 46 of the NEPRA Act.   

“NTDC”  means  the  National  Transmission  and  Dispatch  Company  Ltd.,  an 
electricity  transmission  and  dispatch  utility  established  and  operating  under 
Section  32  of  the  Companies  Ordinance  (1984)  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Pakistan  and  NEPRA’s  license  No.  TL/01/2002,  and  registered  with  the  Joint 
Registrar  of  Companies  under  certificate  of  incorporation  No.  L-09689,  dated 
November 6, 1998. 

“PEPCO”  means  Pakistan  Electric  Power  Company  (Pvt)  Limited,  a  company 
established and operating under Section 32 of the Companies Ordinance (1984) 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  and  registered  with  the  Joint  Registrar  of 
Companies under certificate of incorporation No. 0039090, dated May 13, 1998. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

- 23 -

24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 
 

 

“Procurement Action Plan” means the plan dated February 21, 2008, prepared by 
the  Borrower  and  to  be  implemented  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Project 
Implementing  Entities,  aimed  at:  (i)  overcoming  the  institutional  obstacles  and 
commercial practices hindering the open and transparent competition of bidders; 
(ii) enhancing the scrutiny of bidding processes through independent monitoring 
of bid preparation, issuance and evaluation; (iii) developing a sanctions regime; 
and  (iv)  carrying  out  a  communications  campaign  to  publicize  and  enforce  the 
Borrower’s, PEPCO’s, and the Project Implementing Entities’ resolve to combat 
non-competitive behavior; as such plan may be amended from time to time with 
the prior concurrence of the Bank. 

“Procurement  Plans”  means  the  Borrower’s  and  the  Project  Implementing 
Entities’  respective  procurement  plans  for  the  Project,  dated  April  25,  2008 
(NTDC,  IESCO,  LESCO,  MEPCO,  and  HESCO),  and  referred  to  in  paragraph 
1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in  accordance  with 
the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Program” means the policy program aimed at developing the Borrower’s power 
sector, as set forth or referred to in the letter dated November 26, 2007 from the 
Joint Secretary (Power), MoWP, addressed to the Bank on behalf the Borrower. 

“Project Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements between the Bank and 
the  Project  Implementing  Entities,  of  the  same  date  as  this  Agreement,  for 
purposes of carrying out the Project Implementing Entities’ Respective Parts of 
the  Project,  as  such  agreements  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time.  “Project 
Agreements”  includes  all  appendixes,  schedules,  side-letters  and  agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreements. 

“Project  Implementing  Entity”  means,  individually,  each  of  the  Distribution 
Companies as well as NTDC and/or the successors thereof; and the term “Project 
Implementing  Entities”  means  collectively  all  such  companies  and/or  their 
successors. 

“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means, in respect of: 

HESCO:  HESCO’s  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association, 
dated April 23, 1998; 

IESCO:  IESCO’s  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association, 
dated April 25, 1998; 

LESCO:  LESCO’s  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association, 
dated February 18, 1998; 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c) 

 

- 24 -

MEPCO:  MEPCO’s  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association, 
dated May 14, 1998; 

NTDC:  NTDC’s  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association, 
dated November 6, 1998; 

“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively the action plans, incorporated in 
the  respective  Environmental  and  Social  Assessment  of  each  Project 
Implementing  Entity,  providing  for  the  compensation  to  Displaced  Persons  and 
(i)  an  entitlement  framework  setting  forth 
comprising  of, 
compensation for loss of land, crops, trees and means of livelihood as applicable; 
(ii)  institutional  and  implementation  arrangements;  (iii)  consultation  and 
grievance  redressal  mechanisms;  and  (iv)  monitoring  and  documentation 
procedures.  The  term  “Resettlement  Action  Plan”  means  each  such  plan, 
individually. 

inter  alia:

“Respective Parts of the Project” means, in respect of: 

the Borrower: the activities under Part C of the Project; 

HESCO:  Part  A.4  and  HESCO-related  activities  under  Part  C 
and D of the Project; 

IESCO: Part A.1 and IESCO-related activities under Part C and 
D of the Project; 

LESCO: Part A.2 and LESCO-related activities under Part C and 
D of the Project; 

MEPCO:  Part  A.3  and  MEPCO-related  activities  under  Part  C 
and D of the Project; and  

NTDC: Parts B and NTDC-related activities under Part C of the 
Project.  

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 
 
(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

“Selected  Areas”  means  the  Borrower’s  geographical  areas  serviced  by  the 
Distribution Companies and NTDC. 

“Standard Operating Procedures” means the Standard Operating Procedures with 
Timelines and Responsibilities for Sale and Purchase of Electricity, approved and 
adopted by MoW&P on December 19, 2007. 

“Subsidiary Agreement” means each of the individual agreements referred to in 
Section  I.B  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower 
shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  and  Financing  available  to  a  Project 

 

 
30. 

 
31. 
 

 

 

 

 

 
32. 

 
33. 

 
34. 

- 25 -

Implementing  Entity; and  the  term  “Subsidiary  Agreements”  means  all  such 
agreements, collectively.  

“WAPDA”  means  the  Borrower’s  Water  and  Power  Development  Authority, 
established and existing under the Water and Power Development Authority Act 
thereto. 
to 
(1958)  as  amended 

time,  and  any  successor 

from 

time 

 
35. 

 

