CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7658 -ID 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Public Expenditure Support Facility Development Policy Loan  
with Deferred Drawdown Option) 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated March 4, 2009 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  March  4,  2009,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF 
INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  billion  United  States  Dollars 
($2,000,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

2

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 

(a) 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  Section,  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

The  Borrower  may  at  the time  of  requesting  a  Withdrawal also  request 
repayment  provisions  different  from  those  set  out  in Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity 
of  such  Withdrawal  does  not  exceed  eighteen  (18)  years  from  the 
Withdrawal  Date  and  the  final  maturity  of  such  Withdrawal  does  not 
exceed thirty (30) years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other average 
maturity  and/or  final  maturity  as  may  be  generally  applicable  to  loans 
made  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  at  the  time  of  such  agreement)  and  
(ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal. 

 
(a) 

2.07. 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

 

 

 

3

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following:  A  situation  has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it 
will be carried out. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 

4

P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY  

45799 DJMLN-IA 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 

Jakarta   
 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

44319 DEPKEU-IA 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

5

AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

written. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

By: Rahmat Waluyanto 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: Chris Hoban 

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 

Policy Area:  Reassuring Financial Markets and Maintaining Financial System Stability 
 
1. 

The Borrower has issued a financial safety net government regulation in lieu of 
law (Perpu No. 4/2008) that establishes the roles, responsibilities and procedures 
that will govern the actions and responsibility of Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of 
Finance,  and the  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  in the  event  of  the  failure  of  a 
financial institution. 

The Borrower has taken steps to maintain the stability of its banking system by:  
(a) issuing a government regulation in lieu of law (Perpu No. 3/2008)  increasing 
the  ceiling  on  deposit  insurance  from  100  million  to  2  billion  Rupiah  and 
allowing  the  Borrower  to  provide  a  blanket  guarantee  of  all  bank  deposits  if 
necessary;  and  (b)  issuing  a  government  regulation  in  lieu  of  law  (Perpu  No. 
2/2008) that amends the Bank  Indonesia Law clarifying the types of assets that 
banks can use as collateral for borrowing from the central bank. 

The  Borrower,  through  a  letter  of  the Minister  of  Finance  and  the  Governor  of 
Bank Indonesia, has initiated a financial sector assessment program (Letter dated 
December 24, 2008). 

The Borrower has issued and committed to implementation of the Financing Plan 
for Fiscal Year 2009 that specifies the terms and circumstances under which the 
Borrower  would  draw  on  financing  support  that  is  available  from  the  Public 
Expenditure  Support  Facility  and  from  Indonesia’s  development  partners 
providing  related  support  (Director  General  of  Debt  Management  Decree  No. 
KEP04/PU/2009, dated January 27, 2009). 

 
Policy  Area:    Sustaining  Critical  Public  Expenditures  while  Maintaining  Budget 
Discipline 
 
5. 

The  Borrower  has  established  a  crisis  monitoring  and  response  system  in 
anticipation  of  a  possible  growth  slowdown  or  crisis  (BAPPENAS  Ministerial 
Directive (Surat Penugasan) 0014/M.PPN/01/2009 dated January 27, 2009). 

The Borrower has submitted a Presidential Decree on Coordination of National 
Poverty Reduction efforts to the President for signature. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
6. 

7

The Borrower has included specific provisions in the 2009 budget law (Law No. 
41/2008) to sustain, and if necessary, increase critical public expenditures in the 
event of a pronounced growth slowdown. 

The  Borrower  has  implemented  specific  regulatory  measures  (Regulation  Nos. 
240/PMK.05/2008;  06/PMK.02/2009;  and  15/KMK.05/2009)  and  socialization 
efforts to expedite budget disbursements and enhance the ability of the Borrower 
to rapidly direct public expenditures to preempt, as well as mitigate, any adverse 
impacts of a growth slowdown. 

 
Crowding in Private Investment and Supporting Exports 
 
9. 

The Borrower has prepared and has undertaken inter-ministerial review of a draft 
of a Presidential Regulation on the implementation of the 2007 Investment Law 
and Investment Negative List (DNI) that accommodates Indonesia’s international 
commitments  on  sectoral  restrictions  and  clarifies  the  status  of  publicly  listed 
companies,  foreign  equity  limits  for  direct  investment,  grandfathering  and  the 
creation  of  investment  restrictions  beyond  those  stipulated  in  the  Investment 
Negative List.   

The Borrower has taken steps to increase transparency regarding revenues from 
extractive industries by: (a) issuing a memorandum of understanding among the 
Coordinating  Minister  for  Economic  Affairs,  the  Minister  of  Finance  and  the 
Minister for Energy and Mineral Resources (MOU-01/M.EKON/01/2009; MOU-
54/MK/2009;  0274/05/MEM/2009)  on  Transparansi  Pendapatan  Negara  Yang 
Diperoleh dari Industri Ekstraktif; and (b) issuing a letter from the Coordinating 
Minister for Economic Affairs to the Secretariat of the EITI initiating the process 
of application to the EITI (Letter No. S-125/M.EKON/12/2008). 

The  Borrower  has:  (a)  opened  a  re-discount  window  for  trade  finance  through 
Bank  Indonesia  (Regulation  No.  10/34/PBI/2008);  and  (b)  created  an  export 
financing agency (Law No. 2/2009). 

 
Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay  the  Front-end  Fee)  be  withdrawn  in  a  single  tranche  in  one  or  more 
installments.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in 
the table below: 

7. 

8. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

A. 

 
B. 

 

8

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US Dollars) 
 
1,995,000,000 
      5,000,000 
 
2,000,000,000 

Allocations 

Single Tranche 
Front-end Fee 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds. If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank 
of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a 
review of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  including  the  Financing  Plan,  is  warranted,  the  Bank 
shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until 
the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views 
as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with (1) the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program, including the Financing 
Plan  and  (2)  the  appropriateness  of  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
2.  

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures. The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 

C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

F. 
 

9

SCHEDULE 2 

Amortization Schedule 
 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall 
repay  each  Disbursed  Amount  in  semi-annual  installments  payable  on  each 
February 15 and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the 21st Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and 
the last installment to be payable on the 49th Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.  The following table sets forth 
the percentage of Disbursed Amount payable on each Principal Payment Date. 

Installment 

First through and including 28th 
29th 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

3.45% 
3.40% 

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Loan  Parties  of  the  amortization  schedule  for  each 
Disbursed  Amount  promptly  after  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed 
Amount. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency. 

1. 

 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

10 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 
 

“Bank  Indonesia”  means  the  central  bank  of  the  Borrower,  and  any  successor 
thereto. 

“BAPPENAS”  means  Badan  Perencanaan  Pembangunan  Nasional,
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 

the 

“Deposit  Insurance  Corporation”  means  Lembaga  Penjamin  Simpanan,  the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

Description of Item 

Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 

 

 
5. 

 
6. 

11 

728 

897  

728.43  

897.3 

971  

 

(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“EITI”  means  the  Extractive  Industries  Transparency  Initiative,  a  coalition  of 
governments,  companies,  civil  society  groups,  investors  and  international 
organizations  which  supports  improved  governance  in  resource-rich  countries 
through  the  verification  and  full  publication  of  company  payments  and 
government revenues from oil, gas and mining (www.eitransparency.org). 

“Financing  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  financing  plan  for  public  expenditure 
support  for  Fiscal  Year  2009,  issued  by  Director  General  of  Debt  Management 
Decree  No.  KEP04/PU/2009,  dated  January  27,  2009,  that  specifies:  (a)  the 
Borrower’s  financing  targets  for  Fiscal  Year  2009;  (b)  the  terms  and 
circumstances under which the Borrower would draw on financing support that is 
available  from  the  Public  Expenditure  Support  Facility  and  from  Indonesia’s 

 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

12 

development  partners  providing  related  support;  and  (c)  the  terms  under  which 
such Financing Plan may be rolled over and re-issued for Fiscal Year 2010. 

“Fiscal  Year”  means  the  Borrower’s  fiscal  year  commencing  January  1  and 
ending December 31. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 

“Investment  Negative  List”  means  the    Daftar  Negatif  Investasi  (DNI),  the 
Borrower’s  Investment  Negative  List  establishing  those  sectors  closed,  or 
partially  closed,  to  private  foreign  and/or  domestic  investment  (Perpres  No. 
111/2007). 

“Keppres” means a Keputusan Presiden, a decree issued by the President of the 
Borrower. 

“Minister  of  Finance”  means  the  person  holding  the position  of  Minister in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 

“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto. 

“Perpres”  and  “Presidential  Regulation”  means  a  Peraturan  Presiden, a
regulation of the President of the Borrower. 

“Perpu”  means  a  Peraturan  Pemerintah  Pengganti  Undang-undang,
government regulation in lieu of law of the Borrower. 

a

“Presidential Decree” means a Peraturan Presiden (Perpres), a decree issued by 
the President of the Borrower 

 “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies, including the 
Financing Plan, designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions 
in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated January 28, 2009, from 
the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of  the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the 
Program during its execution.  

“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, which may be withdrawn in one or more installments. 

13 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 

 

 
7. 

 

14 

alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 

The  definition  of  the  term  “Conversion  Date”  is  modified  to  read  as 
follows: 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Fixed Spread’ means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C.  time,  on  the  Withdrawal  Date;  provided,  that:  (a)  for  purposes  of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02(d), that is 
applicable  to  an  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  on  which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day  prior  to  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement,  for  the  Currency  of 
denomination  of  such  amount;  (b)  for  purposes  of  fixing  the  Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread  for the  Loan  Currency  in  effect at 12:01  a.m.  Washington,  D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or  any  amount  of  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  pursuant  to  Section 
4.04(a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

 
(b) 

 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 

15 

The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Variable Spread’ means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted  average  margin,  for  the  Interest  Period,  below  (or  above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans  that  carry  interest  at  a  rate  based  on  the  Variable  Spread;  as 
reasonably  determined  by  the  Bank  and  expressed  as  a  percentage  per 
annum.  In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.”  

A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 

“‘Withdrawal’  means  each  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  by  the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.” 

A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 

“‘Withdrawal Date’ means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal.” 

 

(f) 
 

 
(g) 
 

 
(h) 
 

 

