CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7662-BR 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Integrated Water Management in Metropolitan São Paulo –  
Programa de Saneamento Ambiental dos Mananciais do Alto Tietê – Programa 
Mananciais - SABESP Project) 
 
between 
 

COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BÁSICO DO ESTADO DE SÃO PAULO 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated October 28, 2009 

LOAN NUMBER 7662-BR 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  October  28,  2009,  between  COMPANHIA  DE 
SANEAMENTO  BÁSICO  DO  ESTADO  DE  SÃO  PAULO 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

(“Borrower”) 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such 
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s Chief 
Financial Officer (Superintendente de Finanças).

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September15 in each year. 
 

2.06.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal 
amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  with  the  assistance  of  the  State 
(through SSE) for overall coordination of the Project as set forth in the Implementation 
Agreement; all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

4.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  
 

The Implementation Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and the other 
Program Executing Agencies in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  

 
4.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 

 

 

 

2

The Loan has been registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 

 

 

4.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on January 9, 
2011. 

ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s Representative is 

the President of the Borrower.   

 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de São Paulo 
Rua Costa Carvalho, 300 – Pinheiros  
CEP: 05429-900  
São Paulo – SP – Brasil 
Fax: (11) 3388-8669 
 

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

3

AGREED at São Paulo, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BÁSICO 
DO ESTADO DE SÃO PAULO 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

By /s/ Gesner José de Oliveira Filho  

Authorized Representative 

By /s/ Rui de Britto Alvares Affonso 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Makhtar Diop 

Authorized Representative 

4

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The objectives of the Project are: (a) to protect and maintain the quality and reliability of 
São Paulo Metropolitan Region’s water resources and potable water sources; and (b) to improve 
the quality of life of the poor populations residing in key targeted urban river basins in São Paulo 
Metropolitan Region. 
 

The Project constitutes part of the Program, and consists of the following parts: 

 
Part I: Institutional Development

1. 

Expansion and improvement of the Borrower’s operational and management capacity in 
the  Program  Area  to  supervise  and  control  water  quality  and  the  hydrodynamic 
conditions  of  the  reservoirs  under  its  jurisdiction  and  to  improve  the  operation  of  the 
Borrower’s various potable water systems, including, inter alia:

(a) 

carrying out of studies and diagnoses, and acquisition of equipment, to develop 
and implement: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

water resources monitoring systems, including a decision support system 
for  the  operation  of  reservoirs,  automated  systems  for  raw  water 
pumping stations, plans of contingency for reservoirs, silting control and 
limnology analysis. 

an  improved  software  system  to  be  used  in  the  management  of  the 
Borrower’s  laboratories  for  analyzing,  controlling  and  organizing  the 
results of water quality monitoring exercises; 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

design and implementation of hydrodynamic models and related activities for the 
Guarapiranga,  Rio  Grande,  Taiaçupeba,  Jundiaí,  Biritiba,  Paiva  Castro  and  the 
Atibainha reservoirs to enable preventive and remedial action to be undertaken to 
ensure  their  continued  operation  through  modeling,  simulating,  measuring  and 
monitoring,  inter  alia, the  reservoirs’  eutrophication  episodes,  the  behavior  of 
their sludge layers and their silting tendencies; undertaking of limnological and 
other specialist laboratory analyses; and carrying out of limnological and silting 
control studies; 

carrying  out  of  environmental  and  sanitary  education  programs  for  different 
target groups in the Program Area; 

publishing of materials on the Project’s and the Program’ s accomplishments and 
findings; 

provision  of  technical  assistance  and  acquisition  of  equipment  to  improve  the 
capacity  of  the  UGL  for  project  management  including  administration, 

5

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

(b) 

procurement,  financial  management,  safeguards,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation 
of the Project and undertaking of Project  audits; and 

(f) 

final evaluation of Project and Program results and impact. 

 
Part II:

Environmental Protection and Recovery

1. 

Rehabilitation and protection of Reservoirs and water production systems in the Program 
Area including, inter alia:

conservation of Headwater Protection Areas and other environmentally sensitive 
regions under SABESP responsibility; 
 
reduction  of  pollution  loads  and  other  environmental  degradation  in  the 
tributaries and reservoirs that feed the public water supply systems; 
 
expansion of green areas and protection of existing vegetation cover in existing 
green areas; 

preparation  of  management  plans  for  the  following  environmentally  protected 
areas: Capivari, Rio Claro and Morro Grande; and 

optimization and/or improvement of the capacity of the Paiva Castro and Isolina 
reservoirs through desilting and dredging. 

Part III:

Integrated Water Supply and Sanitation

1. 

Wastewater Management System Improvements

Improvements  to  the  wastewater  management  systems  in  the  Program  Area   
including,  inter  alia: construction,  extension  and/or  improvement  of:  (i) 
wastewater lifting and pumping stations; (ii) gravity and pumped collector trunk 
mains and sewerage networks; and (iii) wastewater treatment plants. 

Carrying  out  of  operational  improvements  to  the  Borrower’s  wastewater 
management systems in the Program Area,  including inter alia: (i) installation of 
operational equipment, automated monitoring systems and software, to enhance 
the operation, control and efficiency of the existing wastewater systems; and (ii) 
construction,  expansion  and/or  improvement  of  installations  in  the  wastewater 
systems to eliminate sewage overflows. 

 
2. 

Water Supply System Improvements

Improvements to the water supply systems in the Program Area including, inter alia:

(a) 

construction, extension and/or improvement of: (i) water supply systems, 
including  household  supplies  in  low-income  areas;  (ii)  water  treatment 

6

works  to  improve  their  efficiency  and  reduce  the  pollution  loads 
emanating  from  them  including  system  design,  operation,  maintenance, 
automation, monitoring and evaluation improvements; and 

carrying  out  of  studies  and  analyses  on  the  use  of  alternative  water 
treatment  technologies to reduce the amount  of  chemical  products  used 
and to minimize sludge production. 

 
(b) 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements

Section I. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The Borrower shall: 

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
C. 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

throughout  Project  implementation  maintain  a  unit  (UGL)  with  the  powers  and 
responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual; and 

no later than two months from the Effective Date have said unit fully staffed with 
personnel with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, including 
the  following  key  staff  each:  a  coordinator  and  experts  to  handle  the  technical, 
procurement, financial management and safeguard aspects of the Project. 

The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain a representative in the CDC 
with power and responsibility set forth in the Operational Manual. 

Agreements 

The  Borrower  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  (the  Implementation  Agreement) 
with  the  Program  Executing  Agencies  and  PMSP  under  terms  and  conditions 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  set  forth  the  cooperation  arrangements  in  the 
implementation of the Project and the Program. 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, 
abrogate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the  Implementation  Agreement  or  any  of  its 
provisions. 

Anti-Corruption 

D. 

Operational Manual 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia:

(a) 

the  functions,  responsibilities  and  training  requirements  for  the  personnel 
responsible  for  the  coordination,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project, 
including the UGL; 

8

 

 

 

 

 
E. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 
 

 
F. 
 

procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management,  disbursement  and  audits  of  the  Project  and  respective  forms, 
reports and guidelines; 

the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;  

the  Environmental  Management  Plan  and  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework; 
and 

(e)  

the counterpart funding requirements of the Project. 

In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  those  of  the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 

Safeguards 

The Borrower shall, in respect of Part II and III of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its 
approval, in accordance with the respective Resettlement Policy Framework and prior to 
initiating  the  bidding  process  for  any  contract  for  construction  works  that  call  for 
resettlement,  any  needed  Resettlement  Plan,  and  carry  out  such  Resettlement  Plans,  in 
accordance with their terms. 

The  Borrower  shall,  in  respect  of  Parts  II  and  III  of  the  Project,  undertake  the  related 
activities  in  accordance  with  the  Environmental  Management  Plan,  and  furnish  to  the 
Bank any needed documentation as required by this Environmental Management Plan. 

The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts II.1 (e) of the Project: 

 evaluate the related activities in accordance with the Bank’s Operational Policy 
4.37 (Safety of Dams); 

furnish  to  the  Bank  any  needed  documentation  including  an  action  plan  to 
address any issues as called for by the Operational Policy referred to in paragraph 
(a) above for analysis before  initiating the bidding process for any related works; 
and 

if the Bank so indicates, carry out the activities of such action plan.  

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

Other Covenants 

Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the Bank, 
the Loan Parties, the Program Executing Agencies, and PMSP shall exchange views on 
the implementation of the Mananciais Metropolitan Program, as may be relevant for the 
successful implementation of the Program. 

9

A. 
 
1. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultants’  Services.      All  goods,  works  and  non-
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

 

10 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultants’ 
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.  

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultants’  Services.
The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consultants’ services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 

Procurement Method
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding  including  in  respect  of  goods,  works  and  non-
consultant  services,  convite,  tomada  de preços  and  concorrencia  (set  forth  in  the 
Guarantor’s  Law  no.  8666  of  June  21,  1993),  pregão  eletrônico  (set  forth  in  the 
Guarantor’s Law no, 10520 of July 17, 2002), under COMPRASNET, the procurement 
portal  of  the  Guarantor,  or  any  other  e-procurement  system  approved  by  the  Bank, 
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall 
be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping  
(c)  Direct contracting  

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

 

C. 

1. 

2. 

 

Procurement Method
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Quality-Based Selection 
(d) Individual Consultants Based on Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 

 

11 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General  

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

(1) Works, goods, consultants’ 
and non-consultants’ services  
 
(2) Front-end Fee 

and 

(3) Premia  for  Interest  Rate      
Interest  Rate      
Caps 
Collars 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
99,750,000 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

90% 

      250,000 

 

0

of 

2.03 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 
this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
Amount  due  under  Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 

100,000,000 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 

(a) 

(b) 

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up  to an  aggregate  amount  not to  exceed  $10,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 

B. 
 
1. 
 

 

 

12 

for payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement for 
Eligible Expenditures. 

 

2. 
 

The Closing Date is September 30, 2015. 

 

13 

 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

 

 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each March 15 and September15 
 
 
On  March 15, 2034 

Beginning September 15, 2019  
through September 15, 2033 

 

3.33% 
3.43% 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 

 
3. 

(a) 

14 

 

4. 

 
5. 

withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

15 

 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 

“CDC” means the committee established pursuant to the State’s Decree No. 52663, dated 
January 24, 2008. 

“CDHU”  means  Companhia  de  Desenvolvimento  Habitacional  e  Urbano  do  Estado  de 
São Paulo, the State’s urban development and housing company, created by the Law No. 
483  dated  October  10,  1949  as  amended  by  the  State’s  Decrees  No.  16.512/81  dated 
January 19, 1981, No. 22061/84 dated March 28, 1984 and No. 30052/89 dated June 15, 
1989. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 

“Environmental  Management  Plan”  means  the  plan  for  assessment  and  management  of 
the  environmental,  cultural  property,  natural  habitats  and  safety  of  dams  aspects  of  the 
Project set forth in the Operational Manual. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008).  

the  “International  Bank 

“Headwater  Protection  Area”  means  any  environmentally  protected  area  in  which 
headwaters  for  potable  water  supplies  are  located,  as  defined  in  the  State’s  and  the 
Guarantor’s legislation. 

“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement (Convenio) to be entered into among 
the Program Executing Agencies and PMSP and referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.  

“Mananciais  Metropolitan  Program”  means  collectively  the  following  programs: 
Mananciais,  Guarapiranga  e  Billings,  Pro-Billings,  Corrego  Limpo  and  Orla 
Guarapiranga as described in the Operational Manual. 

“Municipality” means any municipality in the Program Area. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and approved by the Bank on January 30, 2009. 

“PMSP” means Municipality of São Paulo. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 
 
11. 

 
12. 
 

16 

13. 

 
14. 

15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 
 
24. 
 
25. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, as approved 
by the Bank on December 14, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
“Program”  means  the  program,  which  is  part  of  the Mananciais Metropolitan  Program, 
and is designed to respond to the land-use and water resources challenges facing the São 
Paulo Metropolitan Region, all as set forth or referred to in the letters to the Bank from 
the Borrower dated October 24, 2008, SABESP dated October 22, 2008, the Municipality 
of  São  Bernardo  do  Campo  dated  August  21, 2008, and  the  Municipality  of  Guarulhos 
dated January 14, 2009. 

“Program  Area”  means  the  area  comprising  the  municipalities  of  the  São  Paulo 
Metropolitan Region, the area comprising the Alto Tietê River Basin and the area of the 
Cantareira region’s water system. 

“Program Executing Agencies” means: the Borrower, SSE, SMA, CDHU, SABESP, and 
the Municipalities of São Bernardo do Campo and Guarulhos and any other entity in the 
São  Paulo  Metropolitan  Region  which  meets  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational 
Manual to participate in the Program. 

“Reservoir” means a physical body of accumulated water used to supply raw water to the 
São Paulo Metropolitan Region’s potable water treatment and distribution systems. 

“Resettlement  Policy  Framework”  means  the  framework  set  forth  in  the  Operational 
Manual  defining  the  procedures  for  the  involuntary  resettlement  of  population  in 
connection with the works to be carried out under the Project. 

“Resettlement  Plan”  means  any  plan  prepared  following  the  requirements  of  the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank. 

“SABESP”  means  Companhia  de  Saneamento  Básico  do  Estado  de  São  Paulo, the 
State’s  Water  and  Sanitation  Utility  established  pursuant  to  the  State’s  Law  No.  119 
published in the Official Gazette on June 30, 1973. 

“São  Paulo  Metropolitan  Region”  means  the  territory  comprising  the  39  municipalities 
listed in the Operational Manual and any other municipality as the Borrower and/or the 
Sate  may  propose  based  on  subsequent  administrative  subdivisions  and  the  Bank  may 
agree.  

“SMA” means the State’s Secretariat for the Environment. 

“SSE” means the State’s Secretariat for Water, Sanitation and Energy. 

“State” means the State of São Paulo. 

 

17 

“UGL” means Unidade de Gerenciamento Local, the unit established within the SABESP 
pursuant to the SABESP’s Board Resolution No. 54/2007 dated February 21, 2007.  

“UGP” means “Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa”, the unit established within the 
Borrower’s SSE, pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 52,663 dated January 24, 2008. 

26. 

 
27. 

 

 

18 

