CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7780-UA  

Loan Agreement 

 

(Programmatic Financial Rehabilitation Development Policy Loan 1) 
 

between 
 

UKRAINE 
 
and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 18, 2009 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7780-UA  
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  September  18,  2009,  entered  into  between  UKRAINE 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of  the 
Program  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).    The  Bank  has  decided  to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  four  hundred  million  dollars 
($400,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 

2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 

2

continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the Borrower, through the MOE, and the Bank shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through the MOE, 
shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the 

 

 

 

(b) 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

3

 
(c) 

progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower,  through  the  MOE,  shall  promptly  inform  the 
Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially reversing 
the  objectives  of  the  Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program, 
including  any  action  specified  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  a 
situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
5.02.  Any amendment to this Agreement shall be executed by agreement of the parties 
hereto  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  10.02  of  the  General 
Conditions.  Such amendment shall become effective as set forth in the amending 
agreement. 

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevsky Street 
Kyiv, 01008 
Ukraine 
 

Telex:   

131450   

 

 

 

 

Facsimile:  

(380 – 44) 425-90-26 
(380 – 44) 425-90-28 

 

 

 

4

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

Facsimile: 

Telex:   

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

UKRAINE  

By /s/ Martin Raiser 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Bogdan Danylyshyn 

Authorized Representative 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I. 

Actions Taken under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 

Adoption  by  the  CoM  or MOF  of  resolutions  or  orders, as  the  case  may  be,  to 
establish the institutional framework for a transparent bank recapitalization with 
public funding, to define criteria for accessing public funding for recapitalization, 
to  layout  the  recapitalization  process,  including  bond  structure  and  liquidity 
requirements,  and  to  specify  monitoring/governance  framework  of  banks 
recapitalized with public funding. 

Implementation by the MOF and NBU of the newly established recapitalization 
process by recapitalizing three banks with public funding (Ukrgazbank, Rodovid 
Bank and Bank Kiev).  

Adoption  by  the  NBU  of  a  regulation  outlining  specific  and  monitorable 
enforcement  actions  and  timeline  to  ensure  compliance  by  undercapitalized 
banks with privately funded recapitalization program. 

Amendment  of  the  legislative  framework  to  introduce  more  efficient  bank 
resolution techniques, including, amongst others: transfer of assets and liabilities 
without  prior  creditor  approval  (including  depositors)  before  and  after  bank 
license revocation; powers of the Government to provide financial assistance to 
banks  under  resolution  and/or  to  acquirers  of  such  banks;  creation  of  bridge 
banks owned by the Borrower; simplification of the grounds for introduction of 
temporary administration in problem banks by the NBU; civil liability protection 
for the NBU, the DGF and MOF officials, temporary administrators, auditors and 
contractors  when  discharging  functions  related  to  their  official  duties;  and  
change  in  bank  liquidation  requirements  to  provide  a  higher  priority  for 
Government, NBU and DGF funding. 

 

Section II. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

A. 

 
B. 

6

Allocations 

Amount of the Loan 
 

Single Tranche 
Front-end Fee 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

 
     
  

399,000,000 
 1,000,000 
400,000,000 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
2.  

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan 
shall  not  be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.   If  the  Bank  determines  at 
any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is March 10, 2010. 

C. 

 
D. 

E. 
 

7

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

On each January 15 and July 15 
 
 

Beginning January 15, 2015  
through July 15, 2039 

 

2% 

2.  

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

 

 

 

8

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

4. 

 
5. 

 

9

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

2. 

3. 
 

“CoM” means the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower. 
 
“DGF”  means  the  Deposit  Guarantee  Fund  of  the  Borrower,  established  and 
operating pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 996/98 dated September 10, 1998 
and Law No. 2740-III dated September 20, 2001. 
 
 “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728 

728.43  

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 

 

 
4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 
 
8. 

10 

897  

897.3 

971  

 

Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy. 
 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
“NBU” means the National Bank of Ukraine, the Borrower’s central bank. 

“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
support  a  sound  banking  sector  recapitalization  program  and  restructuring 
process, to enhance the bank resolution framework and to strengthen the deposit 
insurance  pay-out  function,  to  promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable 
reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated July 31, 2009  
from  the  Government  of  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  declaring  the  Borrower’s 

11 

commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 

“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the  table set forth in  Part  B  of Section  II  of  Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  

“Section  2.05.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest 
 

(a) 

If  the  Loan  Agreement  provides  for  the  repayment  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  of  an  advance  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  on  or  after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to 
repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding  balance  of  the  advance  as  at  the  date  of 
such  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  and  to  pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 

 
9. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 

 

 

 
7. 

 
8. 

12 

(c) 

“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
…
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

The  definition  of  the  term  “Conversion  Date”  is  modified  to  read  as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

 
(c) 

13 

(d) 

 

 

 
(e) 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph  8  (d)  above)  is  modified  to  read  “Preparation  Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 

 

 

