CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7769-JM 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Rural Economic Development Initiative Project) 
 

between 
 

JAMAICA 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated November 2, 2009  

LOAN NUMBER 7769-JM 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  November  2,  2009,  between  JAMAICA 

(“Borrower”)  and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  fifteen  million  Dollars  ($15,000,000)  (“Loan”),  to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan, 
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable 
Rate. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  the  Project 
Agreement. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

The  Project  Implementing  Entity’s  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the 
Project Agreement. 

(b) 

The legislation or regulations of the Borrower and/or the rules or procedures of 
the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  including  the  EMF  and  the 

-2- 

 

 

 

 

Operational  Manual,  have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or 
waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank after consultation with the Borrower, 
affect materially and adversely the implementation of the Project. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following,  namely  any  event 

specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the 
Project Implementing Entity. 

The Operational Manual has been adopted by the Project Implementing Entity, as 
set  forth  in  Section  I.D  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  approved  by  the 
Bank. 

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the  Subsidiary 
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms. 

 
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  but  in  no  case  later  than 
eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan  which  expire  on  March  3, 
2011. 

(a) 

 
(b)  

 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and the Public Service of the 

Borrower. 

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance and the Public Service 
30 National Heroes Circle 
Kingston 4 
Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
 
876-924-9291 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 

 

-3- 

Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

-4- 

 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States  of  America,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

JAMAICA 

By /s/ Anthony Johnson 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 

Authorized Representative 

-5- 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  market  access  for  micro  and  small-scale  rural 
agricultural producers and tourism product and service providers. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1. Subprojects Implementing the types of Subprojects described below and providing the 
technical  assistance  and  training  required  throughout  the  Subproject  cycle  described  in  the 
Operational Manual. 
 

(a) 

Type A Subprojects:  Rural Subprojects

Type A Agricultural Subprojects
Carrying  out  revenue-generating  activities  in  the  agricultural  sector 
linking  Rural  Enterprises  to  specific  markets  (hospitality  sector, 
supermarkets,  agro-processors,  and  other  buyers),  including:    (A)  on-
farm  investments  and  innovations,  small  group  marketing  infrastructure 
and  equipment;  and  (B)  technical  assistance  and  capacity  building  in 
production, marketing and business management. 

Type A Rural Tourism Subprojects
Carrying  out  revenue-generating  activities  by  Rural  Enterprises  which 
provide 
including  creating  new 
enterprises  or  enhancing  the  competitiveness  and  viability  of  existing 
ones. 

tourism  products  and  services, 

 
(b) 

Type B Subprojects:  Critical Small-Scale Infrastructure, Management and 
Marketing Subprojects

Type B Critical Small-Scale Infrastructure Subprojects
Carrying  out  investments  in  critical  small-scale  infrastructure  (costing 
the  equivalent  of  US$200,000  or  less)  to  increase  the  efficiency  and 
competitiveness of agricultural and rural tourism value chains.  

Type B Management Subprojects
Carrying  out  investments  in  management  improvements  to  enhance 
market  access  for  agricultural  and  rural  tourism  product  and  service 
providers.  

Type B Marketing Services Subprojects
Carrying out investments in marketing services to enhance market access 
for agricultural and rural tourism product and service providers. 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 

-6- 

 

Part 2. National Technical Assistance and Capacity Building

Strengthening the Borrower’s relevant national organizations to enhance their capacity to 
continue  assisting  the  Rural  Enterprises  and  other  Project  partners  and  ensure  the 
sustainability  of  Rural  Enterprises  through  the  provision  of  technical  assistance  and 
capacity building (including consulting fees, training and goods). 
 

Part 3. Project Management

(a)  Managing  the  Project,  through  use  of  technical  expertise  (tourism  and 
agricultural  specialists,  monitoring  and  evaluation),  provision  of  staff  training, 
carrying  out  of  annual  audits,  provision  of  vehicles  and  office  equipment  and 
expenditure of other Operating Costs. 
 
Ensuring  that  effective  fiduciary  arrangements  are  in  place  during  Project 
implementation. 

(b) 

-7- 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements

Section I. 

Subsidiary Agreement 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

3. 

 
C. 

 

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the 
Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between 
the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved 
by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”) including, inter alia: (a) the Loan amount; (b) the 
terms and conditions for the Project Implementing Entity’s receipt of the Loan on a grant 
basis; and (c) the staffing, functions and responsibilities of the PMT. 

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.    Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  (such 
consent not to be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The  Borrower  shall  establish  and  maintain  throughout  Project  implementation  an  inter-
ministerial  steering  committee  (“Inter-Ministerial  Project  Steering  Committee”)  with 
composition,  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the 
Operational  Manual,  including,  inter  alia,  responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  Project  is  in 
line with national development priorities. 

Prior  to  the  selection  of  any  Subproject,  the  Borrower  shall  establish  and  maintain 
throughout  Project  implementation,  two  subproject  evaluation  committees  (one  for 
agriculture  and  one  for  tourism)  (“Rural  Economic  Evaluation  Committees”),  with 
composition,  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the 
Operational  Manual,  including,  inter  alia,  responsibility  to  review  and  recommend 
viable subprojects to  be  forwarded  for approval  to  the JSIF  management  and  Board of 
Directors. 
 
The  Borrower,  through  MOT  and  MOA&F,  shall  and  shall  cause  each  of  RADA  and 
TPDCo. to enter into (and comply with the terms of) a Memorandum of Understanding 
with  JSIF,  which  sets  forth  their  respective  roles  in  Project  implementation,  including, 
inter  alia:
(a)  RADA’s  commitment  to  provide  field  extension  services  for  Type  A 
Agricultural  Subprojects;  and  (b)  TPDCo.’s  responsibility  to  conduct  the  initial 
assessment for proposed Type A Rural Tourism Subprojects to determine marketability 
and to determine the required aspects for product development. 

Anti-Corruption 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

-8- 

Operational Manual 

D. 

1. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  JSIF  to  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an 
operational manual (“Operational Manual”) satisfactory to the Bank, said manual 
to include, inter alia: 

the  composition,  functions  and  responsibilities  (including  terms  of 
reference  and  qualifications)  for  the  PMT,  the  Inter-Ministerial  Project 
Steering Committee, and the Rural Economic Evaluation Committees; 

the  Subproject  cycle,  including  the  eligibility  and  prioritization  criteria 
the  Project,  and  for 
for  Subproject  selection  under  Part  1  of 
Beneficiaries, including the fiduciary requirements for managing funds; 

(iii)  model 

for 

forms 

the  Subproject  Agreements,  JSIF  Subproject 
Arrangements and a combination thereof for cases where implementation 
of  the  respective  Subproject  is  shared  by  JSIF  and  the  relevant 
Beneficiary; 

(iv) 

the Environmental Management Framework; 

(i) 

(ii) 

(v) 

the  environmental  guidelines  and  procedures  to  be  followed  in  the 
environmental  screening,  approval  and  mitigation  compliance  of 
Subprojects  under  the  Project,  including:  (A)  a  negative  list  of 
investments which will not be financed under the Project; (B) a provision 
that Subprojects that will result in significant conversion or degradation 
of  natural  habitats  will  be  evaluated  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
Bank’s Operational Policy 4.04; (C) a provision that in the event that any 
of  the  Subprojects  procure  pesticides  or  result  in  increased  use  of 
pesticides, an appropriate pesticide management plan, as required by the 
Bank’s  Operational  Policy  4.09  will  be  developed,  which  shall  include 
non-chemical  measures  for  pest  management  and  guidelines  for  proper 
selection,  application,  storage,  handling,  transport  and  disposal  of 
pesticides;  and  (D)  a  prohibition  to  finance  under  the  Project  any 
Subproject  that  involves  involuntary  resettlement  as  defined  in  the 
Bank’s Operational Policy 4.12; 

 (vi) 

the  Project  financial  management,  disbursement  and  procurement 
procedures  (standard  bidding  documents,  standard  bid  evaluation  forms 
and  procedures  for  Community  Participation  (as  defined  in  the 
Procurement  Guidelines)  procurement  procedures  under  Subprojects); 
and  

(vii) 

the Performance Indicators. 

 

(b) 

The  Operational  Manual  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior 
approval  of  the  Bank.    In  the  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  terms  of  the 
Operational  Manual  and  those  of  this  Agreement,  the  terms  of  this  Agreement 
shall prevail. 

-9- 

E. 

1. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the  Subprojects 
under Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement. 

 
Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Sub-projects 

Project Reports   

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  or  cause  to  be  monitored  and  evaluated  the 
progress  of  the  Project,  and  shall  prepare  or  cause  to  be  prepared  Project  Reports  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions  and  on  the 
basis  of  the  Performance  Indicators.    The  first  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period 
between the Effective Date and the first June or December following that date, the choice 
of  which  shall  be  specified  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.    The  first  Project 
Report  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  thirty  days  after  the  end  of  that 
period.  Thereafter, each Project Report shall cover a period of six months (i.e., January 
through  June,  or  July  through  December),  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later 
than thirty days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

For  the  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the 
execution  of  the  Project  and  related  plan  required  pursuant  to  that  Section  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the Closing Date. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank not later than forty-five 
days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  un-audited  financial  reports  for the 
Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  the  Financial  Statements  of  the  Project  and  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  audited,  or  cause  the  Financial  Statements  to  be  audited,  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than four months after the end of such period. 

Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods and Works.  All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 

-10- 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  goods  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of 
International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
(d)  Community Participation (only for Subprojects, according to procedures set forth 

in the Operational Manual) 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services. The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Fixed Budget Selection 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f)  Procedure for Individual Consultants 

-11- 

 
D. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
12,182,500 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  
100% 

(1)  Goods,  works,  Training/Workshops, 
consultants’  services  and  Operating  Costs 
for Part 1 of the Project. 
and 
(2)  Goods,  Training/Workshops 
consultants’  services  for  Part  2  of  the 
Project. 
(3) 
Training/Workshops, 
consultants’  services,  and  Operating  Costs 
for Part 3 of the Project. 
(4) Front-end Fee 

Goods, 

1,250,000 

1,530,000 

   37,500 

(5)  Premium  for  Interest  Rate  Caps  and 
Interest Rate Collars 

0

TOTAL AMOUNT 

15,000,000 

100% 

100% 

(b)  of 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in  accordance  with  Section 
2.07 
the  General 
Conditions 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 

-12- 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

 
B. 
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
1. 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date 
but  on  or  after  August  1,  2009  (but  in  no  case  more  than  one  year  prior  to  the  date  of  this 
Agreement), for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3). 

 

2. 
 

The Closing Date is July 31, 2016. 

-13- 

 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

 

 

 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each February 15 and August 15 
 

Beginning August 15, 2015 
through February 15, 2039 

 

On August 15, 2039 
 

2.04% 

2.08% 
 

2.  

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 

 
3. 

(a) 

-14- 

 

4. 

 
5. 

withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

 

-15- 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 

“Beneficiaries” means Type A Beneficiaries and/or Type B Beneficiaries. 

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 

“Environmental  Management  Framework”  or  “EMF”  means  the  policy  framework  for 
environmental  management,  approved  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity’s  Board  of 
Directors  on July  21,  2009,  which  sets forth the  environmental  policies  and  procedures 
that shall apply to the carrying out of the Project. 
 
“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

the  “International  Bank 

“Inter-Ministerial  Project  Steering  Committee”  means  the  committee  referred  to  in 
Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“JSIF  Subproject  Arrangement”  means  any  of  the  arrangements  referred  to  in  Section 
I.C.1 (a) (ii) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

“MOA&F” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. 

“MOT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism. 

“Operating  Costs”  means  reasonable  expenditures  which  would  not  have  been  incurred 
without the Project, for the maintenance and leasing of vehicles and equipment, for fuel, 
office  supplies  and  other  consumables,  insurance,  internet  connection  costs,  salaries  of 
PMT  staff,  utilities  and  travel,  transportation  and  accommodations  (except  for 
Training/Workshops). 

“Operational  Manual”  means  the  manual  for  the  Project  implementation  referred  to  in 
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation set 
forth in the Operational Manual. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 
 
10. 
 
11. 

 
12. 

13. 

 

-16- 

14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

21. 

 
22. 

23. 

 
24. 

25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

“PMT”  means  the  Project  management  team  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  (b)  of  the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated July 
24, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Implementing  Entity”  or  “JSIF”  means  the  Jamaica  Social  Investment  Fund, 
which was established pursuant to the Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation. 

“Project  Communication  Strategy”  means  the  comprehensive  communications  and 
visibility  strategy  that  will  be  developed  to  promote  Project  activities  to  potential 
Beneficiaries  and  other  stakeholders  and  to  disseminate  project  results,  referred  to  in 
Section I.A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

“Project  Implementing  Entity’s  Legislation”  means  the  Memorandum  and  Articles  of 
Association  of  JSIF,  both  dated  February  26,  1996,  by  which  JSIF  was  incorporated 
under the Borrower’s Companies Act. 

“RADA”  means  the  Rural  Agricultural  Development  Authority,  a  statutory  body 
established under the Borrower’s Rural Agricultural Development Authority Act of 1990. 
 
“Rural  Enterprise”  means  a  group  of  people  with  common  economic  interests  (i.e., 
farmers, fisherfolk, agro-processors, tour guides, craft makers, etc.), who have formed a 
legally recognized organization to carry out business activities. 

“Rural  Economic  Evaluation  Committees”  means the  committees  referred to in Section 
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
“Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section I.C.1 (a) (i) 
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

“Subprojects” means Type A and/or Type B Subprojects. 
 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Project Implementing Entity. 

“TPDCo.”  means  the  Borrower’s  Tourism  Product  Development  Company,  which  is 
registered as a private company under the Borrower’s Companies Act of 2004. 

“Training/Workshops” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ services) solely as 
required  for  the  Project,  incurred  for:  (a)  reasonable  travel,  room,  board  and  per  diem 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training; (b) course 
fees;  (c)  training/workshop  facility  and  equipment  rentals;  (d)  training  material 

-17- 

preparation,  acquisition,  reproduction  and  distribution  expenses  not  otherwise  covered 
under  this  paragraph;  and  (e)  study  tours  and  internships  in  the  Borrower’s  territory  or 
abroad. 

“Type A Agricultural Subproject” means a set of investments under Part 1 (a) (i) of the 
Project  which  are  set  forth  in  a  business  plan  recommended  by  the  relevant  Rural 
Economic Evaluation Committee and approved by JSIF’s Board of Directors. 

“Type A Beneficiary” means a Rural Enterprise which:  (a) meets the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual and has been selected in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in  the  Operational  Manual  to  carry  out  a  Type  A  Subproject;  and  (b)  either:  (i)  has 
registered  as  a  cooperative,  benevolent  or  friendly  society  (in  accordance  with  the 
Borrower’s Co-operative Societies Act of 1950 or the Friendly Societies Act of 1966, as 
the case may be); or (ii) has associated with a legally registered community organization, 
provided that such organization is able to demonstrate how the Type A Subproject will 
benefit that community. 

“Type A Rural Tourism Subproject” means a set of investments under Part 1 (a) (ii) of 
the  Project  which  are  set  forth  in  a  business  plan  recommended  by  the  relevant  Rural 
Economic Evaluation Committee and approved by JSIF’s Board of Directors. 

“Type  A  Subprojects”  means  Type  A  Agricultural  Subprojects  and/or  Type  A  Rural 
Tourism Subprojects. 

“Type  B  Beneficiary”  means  a  parish  council,  a  legally  registered  community 
organization,  an  industry  association,  or  any  combination  thereof  which:  (a)  meets  the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and has been selected in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out a Type B Subproject; and (b) 
either:  (i) has registered as a cooperative, benevolent or friendly society (in accordance 
with the Borrower’s Co-operative Societies Act of 1950 or the Friendly Societies Act of 
1966,  as  the  case  may  be);  or  (ii)  has  associated  with  a  legally  registered  community 
organization,  provided  that  such  organization  is  able  to  demonstrate  how  the  Type  B 
Subproject will benefit that community. 

“Type  B  Critical  Small-Scale  Infrastructure  Subprojects”  means  a  set  of  investments 
under  Part  1  (b)  (i)  of  the  Project  which  are  set  forth  in  an  implementation  plan 
recommended  by  the  relevant  Rural  Economic  Evaluation  Committee  and  approved  by 
JSIF’s Board of Directors. 

“Type B Management Subprojects” means a set of investments under Part 1 (b) (ii) of the 
Project which are set forth in an implementation plan recommended by the relevant Rural 
Economic Evaluation Committee and approved by JSIF’s Board of Directors. 

“Type  B  Marketing  Services  Subprojects”  means  a  set  of  investments  under  Part  1  (b) 
(iii)  of  the  Project  which  are  set  forth  in  an  implementation  plan  recommended  by  the 
relevant  Rural  Economic  Evaluation  Committee  and  approved  by  JSIF’s  Board  of 
Directors. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 
31. 

 
32. 

 
33. 

 
34. 

 
35. 

 

-18- 

36. 

“Type  B  Subprojects”  means  Type  B  Critical  Small-Scale  Infrastructure  Subprojects, 
Type B Management Subprojects, and/or Type B Marketing Services Subprojects. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
 

Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  

“Section  2.07.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee  and 
Interest 
 

(a) 

If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of  such  Loan  Party,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  on  or 
after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to  repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall 
pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

... 
(l)  Ineligibility. The  Bank  or  the  Association  has  declared  the  Borrower  (other 
than  the  Member  Country)  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  ineligible  to  receive 
proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or  otherwise  to 
participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project  financed  in  whole  or  in 
part  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a  determination  by  the  Bank  or  the 
Association  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in 
fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive  practices  in  connection  with  the  use  of  the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 

(a) 

 

 
(b) 
 

The  term  “Project  Preparation  Advance”  is  modified  to  read  “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 

 
2. 

3. 

 

-19- 

the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 

 

-20- 

