CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7870-BR 

Loan Agreement 

 
(São Paulo Water Recovery Project-REÁGUA –  
Programa Estadual de Apoio à Recuperação das Águas – REÁGUA) 
 
 
between 
 
 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated September 27, 2010 
 

 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 7870-BR 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

 
Agreement dated September 27, 2010, between STATE OF SÃO PAULO (“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  sixty  four  million,  four  hundred  and  ninety  six 
thousand  Dollars  ($64,496,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 

(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization 

schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time,  in  each  case  with the  prior  no-objection of the 
Guarantor and through the Guarantor’s Secretariat of National Treasury,  request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

 
 (c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  SSE,  with  the  assistance  of  Service 
Providers in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01. 

(a)  

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of 
the  Service  Providers  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  its 
Project and Performance Agreement - PPA. 

(b)  

Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 7.02 of the General Conditions, 
it is understood that, if any of the Service Providers shall have failed to comply 
with the provisions of its PPA the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for expenditures attributable to the respective Service Provider.  

 

 
 

 

- 2 - 

  

- 3 - 

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  the  event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement concurrently occurs with respect to all of the 
Service  Providers  participating  in  the  Project  and is  continuing  for  a  period  of  90  days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 

The Loan has been registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank.  

 
5.02.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on November 4, 
2011. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Finance.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado de São Paulo 
Av. Rangel Pestana, 300 – 5º andar 
01017-911 São Paulo – SP 
Brasil 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3107-6942 
 
With copy to: 
 
Secretaria de Saneamento e Energia 
Rua Bela Cintra, 847 – 14º andar 
01415-903 São Paulo – SP 
Brasil 
 
Facsimile: (55-11) 3218-5629 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

  

AGREED at São Paulo, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
STATE OF SÃO PAULO 
 

By /s/ Alberto Goldman  
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
 

 
 

 
 

Authorized Representative 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

- 4 - 

  

- 5 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

 

 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  increase  clean  water  availability  in  the  Critical 

Watersheds. 

 
The Project consists of the following parts: 

Part 1:    

Water Availability Increase 

Carrying out of activities aimed to control and reduce real water losses within the Critical 
Watersheds,  including  inter  alia:  determination  of  baseline  water  losses,  sectorization 
into district metered areas, installation of pressure controls, implementation of macro and 
micro-metering, development of a technical cadastre, implementation of active control of 
leaks,  management  of  networks  and  infrastructure,  and  improvements  in  the  speed  and 
quality of repairs (the Water Loss Control and Reduction Subprojects). 

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  to  improve  water  consumption  efficiency  in  selected 
public  schools  through  a  more  rational  use  of  water  including,  inter  alia,  diagnosis  of 
water  consumption  practices  and  potential  for  reduction,  installation  of  water-saving 
appliances  such  as  improved  faucets  and  toilets,  and  implementation  of  awareness 
campaigns to educate students and teachers to economize their use of water (the Water 
Rational Use Subprojects).  

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  to  incentivize  the  reuse  of  treated  wastewater  for 
industrial, agricultural and other purposes and develop reuse techniques including,  inter 
alia:  building  of  additional  treatment  facilities  and  networks  to  transport  treated 
wastewater to the end user (the Treated Wastewater Reuse Subprojects). 

 
Part 2:   

Water Quality Enhancement 

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  at  improving  the  quality  of  water  in  the  Critical 
Watersheds,  including,  inter  alia:  preparing  engineering  designs,  obtaining  required 
environmental  and  construction  licenses  and  mobilizing  construction  firms,  building 
service  lines,  and  connecting  households  to  the  networks  (the  Wastewater  Collection 
Network Subprojects).  

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  at  improving  the  quality  of  water  in  the  Critical 
Watersheds,  including,  inter  alia:  installing  gravity  wastewater  pipes  and  forced 
wastewater pipes; and building wastewater pumping stations (the  Wastewater Transport 
System Subprojects). 

Carrying  out  of  activities  aimed  at  improving  the  quality  of  water  in  the  Critical 
Watersheds, including, inter alia: constructing new wastewater treatment plants in areas 
linked  to  the  Critical  Watersheds  where  wastewater  is  currently  untreated  and  where 
treatment  plants  offer  satisfactory  solutions,  and  upgrading  existing 
small-size 

  

wastewater  systems  to  raise  their  effluent  quality  standards  (the  Wastewater  Treatment 
Plant Upgrading and/or Construction Subprojects). 

Institutional and Technical Strengthening 

(a) 

(b) 

Carrying  out  of  activities aimed  to  increase  the  efficiency  of  the  Borrower’s  water  and 
sanitation  sector  by  enhancing  and  consolidating  its  institutional,  legal  and  regulatory 
framework and strengthening of its technical expertise including, inter alia: 

 
the  carrying  out  of  an  impact  evaluation  study  on  the  output-based  financing 
scheme  financed  by  the  Loan  vis-à-vis  the  traditional  input-based  financing 
approach,  specifically  on 
the  output-based  approach  on  the 
construction time period and costs and sustainability; and 

impact  of 

the provision of technical assistance, capacity building, and training to water and 
sanitation  service  providers,  (including  the  Service  Providers)  in  the  design, 
operation,  and  maintenance  of  programs  and  facilities  associated  with  the 
implementation  of  Parts  1  and  2  of  the  Project  including  institutional 
restructuring, corporate governance, and subproject preparation. 
 

Provision  of  support  for  Project  management,  supervision  and  auditing,  including 
provision of experts for the strengthening of the PMU in the management of the Project 
and in the verification of Outputs and the PPA Performance Indicators, publications and 
dissemination activities, and training and capacity building to strengthen the Borrower’s 
capacity in matters related to Project implementation and supervision. 
 

 
 
Part 3:   
 
1. 

2. 

 

- 6 - 

  

- 7 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

Institutional Arrangements  

The Borrower shall: 

Section I. 
 
A. 
 
1. 
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

2. 

 
(b) 

(a) 

Agreements 

 
B. 

1. 

 

maintain throughout Project implementation, a management unit (PMU) with the 
powers and responsibilities set forth in the Operational Manual; and 

no  later  than  two  months  from  the  Effective  Date,  have  said  unit  fully  staffed 
with  personnel  with  experience  and  qualifications  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
including the following key staff: a coordinator and experts, one each to handle 
the  technical,  procurement,  financial  management  and  safeguard  aspects  of  the 
Project. 

 
The  Borrower  shall,  no  later  than  four  months  after  the  Effective  Date  or  before 
submitting  the  first  application  for  withdrawal  for  Subprojects,  whichever  shall  occur 
first,  employ  a  verification  agent  (VA),  under  terms  of  employment  or  contracting 
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include inter alia VA’s obligation:  
 
(a) 

to  assist  the  Borrower  in  the  verification  of  achievement  of  the  Outputs  and 
compliance with the PPA Performance Indicators of the Subprojects; and 

to  carry  out  ex-post  reviews  of  the  completeness,  accuracy,  and  authenticity  of 
the  documentation  provided  by  Service  Providers,  as  well  as  ex-post  physical 
spot  verifications  of  a  meaningful  and  random  sample  of  Outputs  and  PPA 
Performance Indicators. 

The Borrower shall enter into a Project and Performance Agreement (PPA) with 
each of the Service Providers, and the respective Municipality when applicable, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to set forth inter alia: 
 
(i) 
 

the Service Provider’s obligation:  

(I) 

(II) 

(III) 

to  carry  out  the  Subproject  or  Subprojects,  as  the  case  may  be, 
and deliver the Outputs set forth in the PPA in accordance with 
the requirements and schedule included therein;  
 
to meet the PPA Performance Indicators set forth in the PPA; 
 
to  comply  with 
requirements of the Subproject; 
 

the  safeguard, 

fiduciary  and 

technical 

  

- 8 - 

(IV) 

(V) 

to  enable  the  required  financial  and  procurement  audits  to  be 
carried  out  by  the  Borrower,  as  well  as  the  verifications  of 
compliance  of  delivery  of  Outputs  and  PPA  Performance 
Indicators; 
 
to  comply  with  the  reporting  requirements  applicable  to  the 
Subproject and enable the Borrower and the Bank to review the 
documents  related  to  the  Subproject  and  enter  the  construction 
sites of the Subproject; 
 
to comply with the required performance self evaluations;  

to comply with the procurement requirements of the Subproject, 
including  the  procurement  methods  applicable  as  per  the 
the  Anti-Corruption 
to  comply  with 
Procurement  Plan 
Guidelines; and 

 

(VI) 

(VII) 

(VIII) 

to refund payments made for Outputs as follows: 

 

 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

for Wastewater Collection Network Subprojects  refund 
the  payments  made  for  the  first  Output  indicated in  the 
table in paragraph 3 of Section IV of this Schedule if the 
second Output is not delivered; 

for  Wastewater  Transport  System  Subprojects  refund 
any  payments  made  for  Outputs  if  the  first,  second 
and/or  the  third  Output  indicated  in  the  table  in 
paragraph  3  of  Section  IV  of  this  Schedule  and  as  set 
forth in the PPA is not delivered; and  

for  Wastewater  Treatment  Plant  Upgrading  and/or 
Construction Subprojects refund the payments made for 
the  first  and  second  Outputs  indicated  in  the  table  in  
paragraph  3  of  Section  IV  of  this  Schedule  if  the  third 
Output is not delivered. 

to  pay  for  the  Unit  Costs  of  Outputs  in  the  amounts  and  at  the 
intervals  specified  in  the  PPA,  and  including:  (A)  an  initial 
payment  upon  completion of  the  first  Output  or  set  of  Outputs, 
(B)  intermediate payments at the delivery or completion of each 
of  the subsequent Outputs required for the Subproject, and (C) a 
final payment upon the Service Provider’s fulfillment of the PPA 
Performance  Indicators,  all  as  verified  by  the  VA  and  the 
Borrower; and  
 

  

the Borrower’s obligation: 

 
(ii) 
 

(I) 

(II) 

to ensure that the Service Provider complies with the provisions 
applicable to the Subproject as set forth in the Loan Agreement. 

(b) 

Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the PPA or any of its provisions. 

2. 

(a) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above,  the  Borrower  shall 
implementing  Treated  Wastewater  Reuse 
cause 
Subprojects: 

the  Service  Providers 

(i) 

(ii) 

prior to implementation of the Subproject, to enter into an agreement or 
other  legal  arrangement  with  the  prospective  user  of  the  treated  water 
under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  set  forth,  inter 
alia, the terms and quantity of such use; and 

except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to amend, assign, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce the contract or other agreement referred to in (a) 
(i) above, or any of its provisions. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Anti-Corruption 

 

Operational Manual 

Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing, inter alia:  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  functions,  responsibilities  and  training  requirements  for  the  personnel 
responsible  for  the  coordination,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project, 
including the PMU; 

procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for financial 
management,  disbursement  and  audits  of  the  Project  and  the  respective  forms, 
reports and guidelines; 

the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project;  

the  requirements  and  operating  guidelines  applicable 

the eligibility and selection criteria of the Subprojects as set forth in the Call for 
Proposals, 
the 
Subprojects, size of eligible contracts, and in respect of each type of Subprojects, 
the Outputs, the Unit Cost of such Outputs as per the agreed typologies, and the 
PPA Performance Indicators;  

to 

(e) 

a PPA model; 

 

 

 

 
C. 
 
 

 
D. 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

- 9 - 

  

(f)  
 

the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
and 

In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  those  of  the 

(g) 

the counterpart funding requirements of the Project.  

 
 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
E. 
 
1. 
 

The Borrower shall in respect of Parts 1 and 2 of the Project: 

Safeguards 

(a) 

 
(b) 

ensure that no Subproject requiring resettlement is authorized for implementation 
under the Project;  

cause  the  Service  Providers,  in  the  event  that  during  implementation  of  a 
Subproject resettlement is required: (I) to furnish to the Bank for its approval, in 
accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  prior  to  initiating  the 
bidding process for any contract for construction works that call for resettlement, 
any  needed  Resettlement  Plan,  and  (II)  to  carry  out  such  Resettlement  Plan,  in 
accordance with its terms; and 

(c) 

cause the Service Providers to carry out the Subprojects in accordance with the 
Environmental  Management  Plan,  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  any  needed 
documentation as required by such Environmental Management Plan. 

Other Covenants 

For  the  purposes  of  Parts  1  and  2  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall,  through  SSE, 
monitor  the  implementation  of  the  Subprojects,  the  delivery  of  the  Outputs  and 
compliance  with  the  PPA  Performance  Indicators,  on  a  periodic  basis,  all  under  terms 
acceptable to the Bank.  

The  Borrower  shall, through  SSE,  jointly  with  the  Bank  and  not  later  than  twenty-four 
months  after  the  Effective  Date,  review  the  Outputs  and  related  Unit  Costs,  and  adjust 
them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2.  above  the  Borrower  may,  through 
SSE, propose the Bank additional reviews of the Outputs and related Unit Costs earlier or 
later than as set forth in the preceding paragraph, and after such reviews, adjust them as 
necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 

 
 
 

 

 
F. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
 

- 10 - 

  

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  45  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter, 
interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the  Financial 
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.  

Procurement 

 
 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works.   All goods, non-consultant services and 
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

- 11 - 

  

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works 

International  Competitive  Bidding.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below,  goods,  non-consultant  services  and  works  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-Consultant Services and Works.  The 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consultant services and works.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 

Procurement Method 
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding  including  in  respect  of  goods,  works  and  non-
consultant  services,  convite,  tomada  de  preços  and  concorrência  (set  forth  in  the 
Guarantor’s  Law  no.  8666  of  June  21,  1993),  pregão  eletrônico  (set  forth  in  the 
Guarantor’s Law no, 10520 of July 17, 2002), under COMPRASNET, the procurement 
portal  of  the  Guarantor,  or  any  other  e-procurement  system  approved  by  the  Bank, 
subject to the following additional procedure, namely, that the bidding documents shall 
be acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) Shopping  
(c) Direct Contracting 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services.    The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Quality Based Selection 
(d) Fixed Cost Selection 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultants 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

 
D. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

- 12 - 

  

- 13 - 

Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

(a)  

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
2. 

 
 

Category 

(1)  Goods,  Non-consultants’ 

Services, and  
consultants’ services for 
Part 3 of the Project 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

5,000,000 

100% 

100% of the applicable Unit 
Costs of the Outputs included 
in a Subproject paid by the 
Borrower to the Service 
Provider as per the terms of 
the PPA 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 

Amount due under Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement 

(2) Subprojects 

55,000,000 

(3) Unallocated 

4,334,760 

(4) Front-end Fee 

161,240 

(5)  Premia for Interest Rate 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 

 
 

(b) 

 

 

64,496,000 

 

The  term  “Non-consultants  Services”  means  the  costs  of  publications  and 
dissemination  activities,  training  and  capacity  building,  except  consulting  fees, 
under Part 3 of the Project. 

0 

  

- 14 - 

The Outputs eligible for financing for each type of Subproject are as follows: 

3. 
 

Subproject 
Water Loss Control and Reduction 
Subprojects 
Water Rational Use Subprojects 

Treated Wastewater Reuse Subprojects 

Wastewater Collection Network Subprojects 

Wastewater Transport System Subprojects 

Output 
Cubic meters of recovered water as measured 
against the baseline set forth in the PPA 
Water saving appliances installed and 
environmental campaign executed 
1.  Wastewater reuse facilities (treatment plant, 
transport and reservoirs) built and operational 
2.  Wastewater reuse facilities operating in 
accordance with operational standards set forth 
in the PPA 
1.  Engineering designs, required licenses and 

contractor’s mobilization  

2.  Service lines and connections built 
3.  Active connections operating in accordance 
with operational standards set forth in the 
PPA. 

1.  Meters of gravity wastewater pipes installed 
2.  Meters of forced wastewater pipes installed 
3.  Wastewater pumping stations installed  
4.  Wastewater transport system operating in 
accordance with operational standards set 
forth in the PPA 

plant completed 

3.  Construction  completed  and  wastewater 

treatment plant in testing mode 

4.  Wastewater  treatment  plant  operating  in 
accordance with environmental standards set 
forth in the PPA 

Wastewater  Treatment  Plant  Upgrading 
and/or Construction Subprojects 

1.  Earthworks and foundation works completed 
2.  Physical  structure  of  wastewater  treatment 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after March 8, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures. 

(a)  

If the Bank shall have determined at any time after the expiration of the terms of 
a  PPA  that  a  Service  Provider  has  failed  to  deliver  any  of  the  Outputs  of  a 
Subproject that would enable the Borrower to call for a refund of earlier financed 
Outputs as mentioned in Section I.B.  1 (a) (i) (VIII) of this Schedule, the Bank 
may  at  that  time  obtain  a  refund  to  the  Bank  from  the  Borrower  of  an  amount 
equal to the amount of Loan proceeds disbursed to finance those earlier Outputs. 

  

(b)  

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be credited 
to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 

The Closing Date is  November 30, 2015. The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing  Date  after  the  Guarantor’s  Ministry  of  Finance  has  informed  the  Bank  that  it 
agrees with such extension. 

 

 

 
3. 

- 15 - 

  

- 16 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 

 
1. 

 
 
2.  

 
 

 

 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each June 15 and December 15 
 
 

Beginning June 15, 2015 
through December 15, 2039 

 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

2% 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion 
applies. 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 

  

on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved 
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction 
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the 
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 

4. 

 
5. 

- 17 - 

 

  

- 18 - 

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 

“Call for Proposals” means Edital para a Seleção de Ações de Saneamento Ambiental no 
Âmbito  do  Programa  REÁGUA,  the  call  for  proposals  for  Subprojects  issued  by  the 
Borrower on November 27, 2008.  

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“Critical  Watersheds”  means  the  following  watersheds  in  the  Borrower’s  territory: 
Piracicaba/Capivari/Jundiaí;  Alto  Tietê;  Sapucaí  Mirim/Grande;  Mogi  Guaçu;  and 
Sorocaba/Médio Tietê. 

the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
“Consultant  Guidelines”  means 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 

“Environmental  Management  Plan”  means  the  plan  for  assessment  and  management  of 
the  environmental,  cultural  property,  and  natural  habitats  aspects  of  the  Project  dated 
April 3, 2009 and set forth in the Operational Manual. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended  through 
February 12, 2008). 

the  “International  Bank 

“Municipality”  means  any  municipality  in  the  Borrower’s  territory,  located  within  the 
geographical  boundaries  of  any  of  the  Critical  Watersheds,  and  which  owns  a  Service 
Provider that will execute one or more activities under Parts 1 and 2 of the Project. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and approved by the Bank on March 9, 2010, as the same may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 

“Output”  means  any  of  the  construction  phase  or  operation  phase  outputs  eligible  for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in paragraph 3 of Section IV. A of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement for each type of Subproject and in the numbers and 
typology included in the respective PPA. 

“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section I. A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 55494, dated February 26, 2010. 

“PPA” means any of the Project and Performance Agreements referred to in Section I. B. 
1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

  

- 19 - 

“PPA Performance Indicators” means the targets and the indicators set forth in a PPA to 
be fulfilled by the Service Provider as conditions of sustainability of a Subproject for the 
final payment of the Unit Cost of Outputs. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 

“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated March 
10, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 
1.24  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Resettlement  Plan”  means  any  plan  prepared  following  the  requirements  of  the 
Resettlement Policy Framework and approved by the Bank. 

“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework dated April 3, 2009 and set forth 
in  the  Operational  Manual  defining  the  procedures  for  the  involuntary  resettlement  of 
population in connection with Subprojects. 

“Reuse  Water  Agreement”  means  any  of  the  agreements  or  other  legal  arrangements 
referred to in Section I. B. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Service Provider” means a public utility owned by the Borrower or a Municipality or a 
public  municipal  agency  which  provides  water  and/or  sanitation  services  in  any  of  the 
Critical  Watersheds,  has  received  a  favorable  financial  management  and  procurement 
assessment  by  the  Bank  for  purposes  of  the  Subproject  and  is  otherwise  eligible  to 
participate  in  the  implementation  of  Subprojects  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and 
requirements of the Operational Manual. 

“SSE” means the Borrower’s Secretariat for Water Supply, Sanitation and Energy. 

“Subprojects”  means  collectively  Water  Loss  Control  and  Reduction  Subprojects, 
Wastewater  Collection  Network  Subprojects,  Water  Rational  Use  Subprojects,  Treated 
Wastewater  Reuse  Subprojects,  Wastewater  Transport  System  Subprojects,  and 
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrading and/or Construction Subprojects. 

“Treated Wastewater Reuse Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 1.3 of the 
Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds eligible 
for  financing  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and  other 
requirements of the Operational Manual. 

“Unit Cost” means the unit cost of goods, works, non-consultant services and consultant 
services  required  for  implementation  of  each  of  the  Outputs  of  a  Subproject  in  the 
typology specified in the PPA, all as set forth in the Operational Manual and the PPA. 
 
“VA”  means  the  verification  agent  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 
 
21. 

 
22. 

 
23. 

24. 

 

  

25. 

 
26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

29. 

“Wastewater Collection Network Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 2.1 
of the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and 
other requirements of the Operational Manual. 

“Wastewater Transport System Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 2.2 of 
the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  a  Service  Provider  in  any  of  the  Critical  Watersheds 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and 
other requirements of the Operational Manual. 

“Wastewater  Treatment  Plant  Upgrading  and/or  Construction  Subproject”  means  the 
activities referred to in Part 2.3 of the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in 
any of the Critical Watersheds eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the criteria and other requirements of the Operational Manual. 

“Water Loss Control and Reduction Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 
1.1 of the Project to be carried out by a Service Provider in any of the Critical Watersheds 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and 
other requirements of the Operational Manual. 
 
“Water Rational Use Subproject” means the activities referred to in Part 1.2 of the Project 
to  be  carried  out  by  a  Service  Provider  in  any  of  the  Critical  Watersheds  eligible  for 
financing  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and  other 
requirements of the Operational Manual. 

- 20 - 

  

