CONFORMED COPY 
 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7910-CN 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
 
(Sustainable Development in Poor Rural Areas Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated August 25, 2010  
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

 
AGREEMENT  dated  August  25,  2010,  between  PEOPLE’S  REPUBLIC  
OF  CHINA  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I – GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the  Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II – LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  one  hundred  million  Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”), with the exception of Part D of the Project which will 
be financed by the Co-financing. 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 

 

 

- 2 - 

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;  
 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and  
 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

ARTICLE III – PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  (Chongqing 
Municipality,  Henan  Province,  and  Shaanxi  Province)  to  carry  out  their 
Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 

 

 

 

 

 

- 3 - 

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered  and all conditions 
precedent  to  its  effectiveness  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of  this  Agreement) 
have been fulfilled. 

 
4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

5.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
  
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 
 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

 

- 4 - 

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People’s  Republic  of  China,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 

By /s/  Zheng Xiaosong 
 
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/  Klaus Rohland 
 

Authorized Representative 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

- 5 - 

 SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

 
The  objectives  of  the  Project  are:  (a)  to  explore  and  pilot  more  effective  and 
innovative  ways  of  providing  poverty  reduction  assistance  to  the  poorest  communities 
and households in  Henan Province, Shaanxi Province and Chongqing Municipality (the 
Project  Provinces)  through  community-driven  development  and  participatory  approach; 
and  (b)  to  pilot  sustainable  land  management  and  adaption  measures  to  address 
vulnerability to climate change in poor rural areas in the Project Provinces.  
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 
 

Part A:  Community-Driven Development  
 
1. 

Development of basic rural infrastructure in poor villages through the provision 
of  investment  support  and  related  technical  assistance  for  the  construction  and 
improvement of, inter alia, village access roads, drinking water supply systems, 
rural  sanitation  infrastructure,  electrification,  communication  infrastructure, 
school  building  construction  and  repair,  small-scale  agriculture  production 
infrastructure, and basic housing repair.   

 
Part B:  Community  Development  Financing  and  Capacity  Building  for  CDD  and   

CDF   

Provision of Community Development Financing to Community Cooperatives to 
finance  CDF  Sub-grants  and/or  CDF  Sub-loans  in  support  of  household-level 
productive activities, including improved and diversified crop production, animal 
husbandry, and other income generating activities.   

Provision  of  technical  assistance  and  capacity  building  support  at  the  village 
level  to  support  the  CDD  and  CDF  activities  under  Parts  A.1  and  B.1  of  the 
Project, including:  
 
(a) 

information  dissemination,  mobilization  of  villagers,  formulation  of 
investment  plans  and  village  medium-term 
community  annual 
development 
evaluation, 
implementation  and  inspection  of  the  above-mentioned  CDD  activities; 
and 

preparation, 

technical 

plans; 

and 

 
(b)   

the  development,  implementation,  management  and  supervision  of 
technical  and 
productive  activities, 
vocational  skills,  infrastructure  operation  and  management,  and  skills 
training for women; support for extension services in the areas of  access 

including  farmer 

training 

in 

 

 

 
1.  

 
2. 

- 6 - 

to  market  information,  and  awareness  campaigns  about  off-farm  labor 
opportunities for farmers. 

 
Part C: Rural Migrants Support   
 
1.  

 
Part D:  Sustainable Land Management and Adaptation  

in  Chongqing, 

Carrying out activities to improve the condition of rural migrant workers in urban 
areas 
including  construction/improving  migrant  worker 
dormitories and migrant workers service centers, provision of vocational training 
and job placement assistance; establishing migrant community service centers to 
provide social services.  

Provision of MLMS Financing to MLMAs to finance MLMS Sub-grants and/or 
MLMS  Sub-loans  in  support  of  migrant  workers  and  migrant  workers’  micro-
enterprises. 

Strengthening  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  system  relating  to  the  welfare  of 
migrant  workers;  carrying  out  research  to  examine  the  relationship  between 
migration  and  poverty  alleviation;  and  conducting  training  and  study  tours  to 
strengthen the capacity of the Chongqing municipal government in administering 
migrant workers’ affairs.  

 
Designing  and  implementing  sustainable  land  management  and  adaptation  pilot 
activities  based  on  community  participation  through  promoting  adaptation 
measures  in  small  infrastructure  and  agricultural  improvement  projects;  and 
providing technical assistance to communities and township technical staff in the 
design, implementation, and monitoring of the above-mentioned pilot activities.  

Disseminating the experience of implementation of the pilot activities referred to 
in  D.1  above  and  promoting  the  integration  of  such  interventions  in  the  CDD 
activities under Part A of the Project.   

Supporting policy  studies analyzing the linkages between poverty, vulnerability 
to  climate  change,  and  adaptation;  and  conducting  consultation  workshops  to 
facilitate experience exchanges among agencies with responsibilities in land and 
water resources  management,  agriculture,  forestry,  and  other  aspects  of  climate 
change adaptation. 

Part E: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
1.  

Strengthening the capacity of the Project implementing agencies at all levels in 
Project management, monitoring, and evaluation through the provision of  office 
furniture  and  equipment,  vehicles  (where  applicable),  related 
technical 
assistance, workshops, and international training and study tours. 

 
2.  

 
3.  

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

 

 

- 7 - 

Designing and implementing a comprehensive  Project  management information 
impact 
including  reporting  progress,  financial  management  and 
system, 
monitoring  and  evaluation,  and  domestic  training  (including  workshops)  and 
study tours. 

2. 

 

 
 
 

 

- 8 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Financing and Institutional  

Section I. 
 
A. 
 
 

Financing Arrangements 

The  Borrower  shall  make  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Categories for each such 
Entity  as  set  forth  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  this  Schedule  on  the  following 
principal terms: 
 
 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
(i) 
 
 
(ii) 
The  following  shall  be  recovered  over  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  years 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years:  
 
(a)  
 
(b)  

an amount equal to the fee paid pursuant to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement. 

the principal amount so made available; and  

(iii) 

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest 
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  throughout  the  period  of  implementation  of  the 
Project the Central Project Coordination Office (CPCO) with powers, functions, 
staff  and  resources,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for,  inter  alia,  overseeing  the 
implementation  of  the  Project,  coordinating  among  the  project  implementing 
agencies  at  the  local  levels  for  the  efficient  and  timely  implementation  of  the 
Project, and carrying out Part D.3 of the Project.  
 
Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in  accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

 

 

 

 

 
B. 
 
 

C. 
 
 

- 9 - 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 

 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

Project Reports 

The Borrower, through the CPCO, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on 
the  basis  of  the  indicators  set  forth  in  Annex  1  to  the  Schedule  to  the  Project 
Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than three (3) months after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  

The  Borrower,  through  the  CPCO,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provision  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower, 
through the CPCO, shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report not later than ninety (90) days 
after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for 
the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.    Each  audit  of  the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 

Procurement 

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consultant  Services.    All  goods,  works    and  non- 
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule.   

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
2. 

 

 

- 10 - 

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultants 
Services 

International  Competitive  Bidding  (ICB).    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in 
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and non-consultant services  shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and 
Appendix  2  thereto  shall  apply  to  goods  manufactured  in  the  territory  of  the 
the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Borrower  (other 
Administrative  Region  or  the  Macau  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
Borrower). 

than  goods  manufactured 

in 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consultant 
Services.  The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and 
non-consultant services.   The  Procurement  Plan  shall specify  the  circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 

(a) 

National Competitive Bidding.   
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall 
be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People’s 
Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  on  August  30,  1999,  with  the  following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a 
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower’s  country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods  contracts  that  are 
estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which 
may  be  advertised  in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such 
advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective 
bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum 
of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement 
the  deadline  for 
submission  of  bids,  and  the  advertisement  and  bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   

in  such  newspaper  and 

 

3. 

 
B. 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 

- 11 - 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 

All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification  document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there  shall 
be no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing 
Entity, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the 
contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the required 
form and amount of such security.    

Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The 
time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 

All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered 
an  opportunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 

 
(vii)  All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of pass/fail requirements. 

 
(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price 
falls  outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or 
bracket  of  average  bids  established  by  the  Borrower  or  the 
Project Implementing Entity, as the case may be. 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards  of  capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been 
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding 
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents  or  otherwise  to  modify  the  bid  as  originally 
submitted. 

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at  its  request,  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

 
(v) 

 
(vi) 

 
(ix) 

 
(x) 

 

 

 

- 12 - 

the performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 

 
(xi) 

Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal of goods and works if 
they  can  establish  that  they:  (i)  are  legally  and  financially 
autonomous;  (ii)  operate  under  commercial  law;  and  (iii)  are 
not  a  dependent  agency  of  the  agency  conducting  the 
procurement. 

 
(xii)  Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3), and rejection of all bids or rebidding 
shall  not 
the  Bank’s  prior  written 
concurrence. 

take  place  without 

 
(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be 
published in the national press or provincial press (as provided 
under sub-paragraph (i) above) or official gazette or  a free and 
open  access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered 
price  of  the  winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and 
summary scope of the awarded contract.  

 
(xiv)  Project Implementing Entities shall have in place provisions for 

bidders to protest. 

 
Shopping  

(b)  
 
(c)        Community Participation in Procurement 
 

(d)        Direct Contracting 

(e)        Commercial Practices 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection. 
  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  
paragraph  2  below,  consultants’  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded  on  the  basis  of  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.    For  purposes  of 
paragraph  2.7  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  the  short  list  of  consultants  for 
services  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  per  contract  may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

- 13 - 

Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Methods 
 
(a)  Quality-based Selection  
 
(b)   Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)   Single-source Selection 
 
(d)   Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant 

Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 

 
(e)    Sole-source Selection 
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  determine  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  the 
following  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Prior  Review  by  the  Bank:  (a)  each 
contract for goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000  or  more;  (c)  all  contracts  for  goods,  works  and  non-consultant 
services  to  be  procured  based  on  Direct  Contracting  method,  regardless  of 
contract  value  thereof;    (d)  each  contract  for  consultants’  services  estimated  to 
cost  the  equivalent  of  US$100,000  or  more  for  firms,  and  $50,000  or  more  for 
individuals;  and  (e)  each  contract  proposed  to  be  awarded  under  Single-source 
Selection  and  Sole-source  Selection  procedures.  All  other  contracts  shall  be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

(a) 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of 

 

 

 
D. 
 

 
2. 

 

- 14 - 

the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
 
 
Category 

 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

(1)  Chongqing 

(a)  CDD Grants under Part A.1 

11,160,000 

(c)  MLMSFs, goods (except 

7,870,000 

76% 

4,040,000 

370,000 
 
 
 
 
500,000 

 

 

10,240,000 

of the Project 

(b)  CDFs and goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services and Incremental 
Operating Costs under  
Part B.2 of the Project 

vehicles), works, consultant 
services, and Incremental 
Operating Costs under Parts 
C.1 and C.3 of the Project 

(d)  (i) International Training, 

goods (except vehicles), and 
consultant services under  
Part E.1 of the Project 

 
 

  (ii) Domestic Training, goods 
(except vehicles), works, 
consultant services and  
non-consultant services, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under Part E.2 of the Project.  

of the Project 

(b)  CDFs and goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services and Incremental 
Operating costs under  
Part B.2 of the Project 

(2)  Henan 

(a)  CDD Grants under Part A.1 

23,940,000 

 

55% 

88% 

100% 
 
 
 
 
94% 

 

68% 

68% 

 

 

 

3.   Shaanxi 

 

(a)  CDD Grants under Part A.1 

21,870,000 

- 15 - 

960,000 
 
 
 
 
770,000 

16,030,000 

1,080,000 
 
 
 
 
920,000 

250,000 
 
 
 
 
0 

(c)  (i) International Training, 
goods, and consultant 
services under Part E.1 of the 
Project 
 
(ii) Domestic Training, goods 
(except vehicles), works, 
consultant services and  
non-consultant services, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under Part E.2 of the Project 

 

of the Project 

(b)  CDFs and goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services and Incremental 
Operating Costs under  
Part B.2 of the Project 

(c)  (i) International Training, 

 

goods (except vehicles), and 
consultant services under Part 
E.1 of the Project 
 
(ii) Domestic Training, goods 
(except vehicles), works, 
consultant services and non-
consultant services, and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under Part E.2 of the Project 

4.  Front-end Fee 

5.  Premium for Interest Rate Cap 

on Interest Collar 

TOTAL 

         100,000,000 

 

 

 

100% 
 
 
 
 
16% 

 

53% 

100% 

100% 
 
 
 
 
31% 

Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of 
the General Conditions 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement and  
Section 4.05(c) of the 
General Conditions 

 

 

- 16 - 

(b) 

For the purpose of this Schedule:  

the  term  “Incremental  Operating  Costs”  means  the  reasonable  costs 
incurred  by  the  Borrower’s  implementing  agencies  at  the  provincial, 
county and village levels, on account of Project management, monitoring 
and evaluation, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent 
the Project, including costs incurred for office supplies and consumables, 
repairs of equipment and vehicles, transportation costs and per diem for 
staff travel, rental of office space, fuel costs, communication costs, and 
bank  charges,  but  excluding  the  salaries  and  salary  supplements  of  the 
Borrower’s civil servants.   
 
the  term  “International  Training”  means  the  reasonable  cost  of  travel, 
lodging  and  per  diem  for  trainees  attending  training,  study  tours  and 
seminars abroad. 

the  term  “Domestic  Training”  means  the  reasonable  cost  of  travel, 
lodging  and  per  diem  for  trainees  attending  training,  study  tours, 
workshops  and  seminars  abroad  and  cost  of  delivering  training  and 
workshops  such  as  rental  of  training  space  and  training  equipment  and 
other logistic costs. 

Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period  

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $10,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made within twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement, but on or after May 27, 2009, for Eligible 
Expenditures;  

for  payments  made  for  CDFs  under  Categories  1(b),  2(b),  and  3(b) 
unless the Bank shall have approved the CDF Manual; and  

for payments made for MLMSFs under Category 1(c) unless the Bank 
shall have approved the MLMSF Manual. 

 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2015. 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 
B. 
 
1. 

2. 
 
 
 

 

- 17 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

 
Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 

On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 

Beginning September 15, 2015  
through March 15, 2040 

 
 

2% 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.  

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 

 
3. 

(a) 

 
1. 

 
2.  

 

 

 

 

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

- 18 - 

 

4. 

 

 

 

  
 

 

- 19 - 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means 
the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“CDD” means community-driven development. 
 
“CDD Grant” means a community-driven development grant made by a Project 
Implementing Entity to a CDD Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan for 
the  financing  and  carrying  out  of  a  CDD  Sub-project  under  Part  A.1  of  the 
Project  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Project  Agreement,  the  CDD  Manual 
and  the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and  the  term  “CDD  Grants”  means, 
collectively, all such CDD Grants. 

“CDD  Grant  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  a 
County  PMO  and  a  CDD  Beneficiary  for  purposes  of  providing  a  CDD  Grant 
pursuant to paragraph 11 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Bank; and “CDD Grant Agreements” means, collectively, all of said CDD Grant 
Agreements. 

“CDD  Beneficiary”  means  an  administrative  village  of  a  Project  Implementing 
Entity eligible to carry out a CDD Sub-project pursuant to the CDD Manual; and 
the term “CDD Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such CDD Beneficiaries. 
 
“CDD Manual” means the manual dated August 21, 2008, setting out, inter alia, 
the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  all  agencies  involved  in  the  implementation  of  
Part  A  of  the  Project,  accounting  and  financial  management  requirements, 
procurement  procedures,  community-based  governance  and  monitoring 
framework  and  a  negative  list  of  the  activities  not  eligible  for  financing  under 
Part  A.1  of  the  Project,  and  referred  to  paragraph  8  of  Section  I  of  the  Project 
Agreement;  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior 
agreement of the Bank. 

“CDD Sub-projects” means, collectively, the basic rural infrastructure investment 
activities  under  Part  A.1  of  the  Project  included  or  to  be  included  in  the 
community  annual  investment  plans,  to  be  prepared  and  carried  out  by  a  CDD 
Beneficiary and to be financed from the proceeds of CDD Grants in accordance 
with the provisions of the CDD Manual and the relevant provisions of the Project 
Agreement;  and  the  term  “CDD  Sub-project”  means  any  of  the  CDD  
Sub-projects. 

 

 
2. 

3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 

 

- 20 - 

“CDF”  or  “Community  Development  Financing”  means  a  community 
development financing made by a Project Implementing Entity to a Community 
Cooperative out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing and carrying out of 
a CDF Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the 
CDF  Manual,  the  Project  Agreement,  and  the  Financial  Management  Manual; 
and  the  term  “Community  Development  Financing”  or  “CDFs”  means, 
collectively, all such community development financing. 
 
“CDF Beneficiary” means  a household  or a group of households selected to be 
eligible  to  carry  out  a  CDF  Sub-project  pursuant  to  the  CDF  Manual;  and  the 
term “CDF Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all such CDF Beneficiaries. 

“CDF  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  a  County 
PMO and a Community Cooperative for purposes of providing a CDF to a CDF 
Beneficiary  for  carrying  out  a  CDF  Sub-project  referred  to  in  paragraph  15  of 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; as the same may be amended 
from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  the  term  “CDF 
Agreements” means, collectively, all such CDF Agreements.  
 
“CDF Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 13 of Section I of the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
“CDF  Sub-grant”  means  a  community  development  Sub-grant  made  by  a 
Community  Cooperative  to  a  CDF  Beneficiary  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Community Development Financing for the financing and carrying out of a CDG 
Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project 
Agreement,  the  CDF  Manual  and  the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and  the 
term “CDF Sub-grants” means, collectively, all such CDF Sub-grants. 

“CDF Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Community  Cooperative  and  a  CDF  Beneficiary  for  purposes  of  providing  a 
CDF  Sub-grant  pursuant  to  paragraph  15(j)  of  Section  I  of  the  Schedule  to  the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  “CDF  Sub-grant  Agreements”  means,  collectively, 
all of said CDF Sub-grant Agreements. 

“CDF  Sub-loan”  means  a  community  development  Sub-loan  made  by  a 
Community  Cooperative  to  a  CDF  Beneficiary  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the 
Community Development Financing for the financing and carrying out of a CDF 
Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project 
Agreement,  the  CDF  Manual  and  the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and  the 
term “CDF Sub-loans” means, collectively, all such CDF Sub-loans. 

 

8. 

9. 

 
10. 

11. 

12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 

 

- 21 - 

“CDF  Sub-loan  Agreement”  means the agreement to be  entered  into between  a 
Community  Cooperative  and  a  CDF  Beneficiary  for  purposes  of  providing  a 
CDF  Sub-grant  pursuant  to  paragraph  15(j)  of  Section  I  of  the  Schedule  to  the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; and “CDF Sub-loan Agreements” means, collectively, all 
of said CDF Sub-loan Agreements. 

“CDF  Sub-project”  means  a  sub-project  for  productive  and  income  generating 
activities under Part B.1 of the Project to be prepared and carried out by a CDF 
Beneficiary under a community-driven development approach and to be financed 
from the proceeds of a CDF Sub-grant or CDF Sub-loan in accordance with the 
provisions  of  the  CDF  Manual  and  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Project 
Agreement; and the term “CDF Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such CDF 
Sub-projects. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Central Project Coordination Office” and the acronym “CPCO” mean the office 
established by the Borrower and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
paragraph B.1of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Chongqing” means the Borrower’s Chongqing Municipality, and any successor 
thereto. 

“Co-financier” means the Global Environment Facility. 

“Co-financing”  means  an  amount  of  four  million  two  hundred  and  sixty  five 
thousand Dollars ($4,265,000) to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in the 
financing of Part D of the Project. 

“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
People’s Republic of China and the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency for 
the Global Environment Facility, providing for the Co-financing. 
 
“Community  Cooperative”  means  the  community  cooperative  established  or  to 
be established in accordance with the Borrower’s relevant laws.  

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.  
 
“County  Project  Leading  Group”  and  its  abbreviation  “CPLG”  mean  the  group 
referred  to  in  paragraph  1(c)  of  Section  I  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project 
Agreement. 

 

15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 
 
21. 

 
22. 

23. 

 
24. 

25. 

 

- 22 - 

 
“County  Project  Management  Office”  and  its  abbreviation  “CPMO”  mean  the 
office  referred  to  in  paragraph  1(c)  of  Section  I  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project 
Agreement. 

“Displaced  Person”  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or  (ii)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and 
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 

“Environmental and Social Management Framework” and the acronym “ESMF” 
mean  the  document  dated  September  3,  2008  adopted  by  the  Project 
Implementing Entities, setting forth, inter alia, the assessment of environmental 
and  social  impacts  of  the  Project,  recommendations  for  mitigation  of  adverse 
impacts and enhancement of positive impacts based on such assessment, and the 
guidelines 
and  monitoring  of  Project 
screening 
implementation; as said ESMF may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank.  

environmental 

for 

“Financial  Management  Manual”  means  the  Financial  Management  Manual 
adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entities,  dated    January  21,  2010,  which 
sets out the policies and procedures for establishing and maintaining a financial 
management system to be implemented by the Project Implementing Entities in 
the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  including  guidelines  on  financial  management, 
internal  controls,  accounting  procedures,  fund  and  asset  management  and 
withdrawal  application  procedures,  consistent  with  the  provisions  set  forth  in 
Section II, B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  

“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Migrant Labor Micro-enterprises Association” or the acronym “MLMA” means 
the  association  established  or  to  be  established  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
laws of the Borrower. 

 

26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 
31. 

32. 

 

 

- 23 - 

“MLMS  Financing”  and  its  acronym  “MLMSF”  mean  a  migrant  labor  micro-
enterprise support financing made by Chongqing to a MLMA out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to be utilized by the MLMA for providing a MLMSF Sub-grant or 
MLMSF Sub-loans for the financing and carrying out of a MLMSF Sub-project 
under Part C.2 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, 
the  MLMSF  Manual  and  the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and  the  term 
“MLMS Financing ” means, collectively, all such MLMS Financing. 

“MLMS Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between Chongqing 
and  a  MLMA  for  purposes  of  providing  MLMSF  Sub-grants  and/or  MLMSF 
Sub-loans to MLMSF Beneficiaries for carrying out MLMSF Sub-projects. 

“MLMSF Beneficiary” means a migrant worker, a migrant worker household, or 
a  micro-enterprise  in  Chongqing  eligible  to  carry  out  a  MLMSF  Sub-project 
pursuant to the MLMSF Manual; and the term “MLMSF Beneficiaries” means, 
collectively, all such MLMSF Beneficiaries. 
 
“MLMSF  Manual”  means  the  manual  prepared  for  the  migrant  labor  micro-
enterprise  support  grant  component  under  Part  C.2  of  the  Project,  dated 
December 28, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 16 of Section I of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
“MLMSF Sub-grant” means a micro-enterprise development sub-grant made by 
a MLMA to a MLMSF Beneficiary out of the proceeds of a MLMS Financing for 
the  financing  and  carrying  out  of  a  MLMSF  Sub-project  under  Part  C.2  of  the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, the MLMSF Manual 
and  the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and  the  term  “MLMSF  Sub-grants” 
means, collectively, all such MLMSF Sub-grants. 

“MLMSF  Sub-grant  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into 
between  a  MLMA  and  a  MLMSF  Beneficiary  for  purposes  of  providing  a 
MLMSF  Sub-grant  pursuant  to  paragraph  18(j)  of  Section  I  of  the  Schedule  to 
the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
prior  agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  “MLMSF  Sub-grant  Agreements”  means, 
collectively, all of said MLMSF Sub-grant Agreements. 

“MLMSF Sub-loan” means a micro-enterprise development sub-loan made by a 
MLMA to a MLMSF Beneficiary out of the proceeds of a MLMS Financing for 
the  financing  and  carrying  out  of  a  MLMSF  Sub-project  under  Part  C.2  of  the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement, the MLMSF Manual 
and  the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and  the  term  “MLMSF  Sub-loans” 
means, collectively, all such MLMSF Sub-loans. 

 

33. 

 
34. 

 
35. 

36. 

37. 

 
38. 

 
39. 

 

 

- 24 - 

“MLMSF Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
a MLMA and a MLMSF Beneficiary for purposes of providing a MLMSF Sub-
loan  pursuant  to  paragraph  18  (j)  of  Section  I  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project 
Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior 
agreement  of 
the  Bank;  and  “MLMSF  Sub-loan  Agreements”  means, 
collectively, all of said MLMSF Sub-loan Agreements. 

“MLMSF Sub-project” means a sub-project for micro-enterprise development in 
Chongqing  under  Part  C.2  of  the  Project  to  be  prepared  and  carried  out  by  a 
MLMSG  Beneficiary  under  a  community-driven  development  approach  and  to 
be financed from the proceeds of a MLMSF Sub-grant  or MLSMF Sub-loan  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  MLMSF  Manual  and  the  relevant 
provisions  of  the  Project  Agreement;  and  the  term  “MLMSF  Sub-projects” 
means, collectively, all such MLMSF Sub-projects. 

“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 

“Policy  Framework  for  Resettlement  and  Land  Acquisition”  means  the  policy 
framework,  dated  September  4,  2008,  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing 
Entities,  which  sets  out  the  policies  and  procedures  for  land  acquisition, 
resettlement,  compensation  and  rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons,  and for the 
the 
preparation  of  resettlement  action  plans  whenever  required  during 
implementation  of  the  Project,  as  said  policy  framework  may  be  revised  from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank.  

“Procurement  Guidelines” means  the  “Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Procurement  Plan  for  the  Project,  adopted  by 
Chongqing,  Henan,  and  Shaanxi  dated  April  16,  2010  and  referred  to  in 
paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of  the 
Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  

“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Borrower’s 
Municipality  of  Chongqing,  and  the  Henan  and  Shaanxi  Provinces  and  any 
successors  thereto,  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement. 

“Project Counties” means the counties selected to participate in the Project. 
 

 

40. 

 
41. 

  
42. 
 
43. 

 
44. 

 
45. 

 
46. 

 
47. 

 

- 25 - 

“Project Implementing Entities” means Chongqing Municipality, Henan Province 
and  Shaanxi  Province,  and  any  successors  thereto,  and  “Project  Implementing 
Entity” means of any of the Project Implementing Entities. 
 
 “Project  Villages”  means  the  administrative  and  natural  villages  selected  to 
participate in the Project. 

“Provincial  Project  Leading  Group”  and  the  acronym  “PPLG”  mean  provincial 
project leading group established by each Project Implementing Entity and to be 
maintained  according  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1(a)  of  Section  I  of  the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

“Provincial  Project  Management  Office”  and  the  acronym  “PPMO”  mean  the 
office  established  by  each  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  to  be  maintained 
according to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Section I of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 

“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of: (i) the Borrower, Part D.3 
of  the  Project;  (ii)  Chongqing,  all  Parts  of  the  Project  to  be  implemented  by 
Chongqing in its jurisdiction; (iii) Henan, Parts A, B, D, and E of the Project to 
be  implemented  by  Henan  in  its  jurisdiction;  and  (iv)  Shaanxi,  Parts  A,  B,  D  
and E of the Project to be implemented by Shaanxi in its jurisdiction.  
 
“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi, and any successor thereto. 
 
“Township  Project  Working  Stations”  means  the  stations  referred  to  in  
paragraph 1(d) of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  
 
. . . . 
 
(l) 
Ineligibility.  The  Bank  or  the  Association  has  declared  the  Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive  proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or 
otherwise  to  participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project 
financed  in  whole  or  in  part  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a 
determination  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive 

 

48. 

49. 

 
50. 

 
51. 

 
52. 

53. 

54. 

 

- 26 - 

practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” in the Appendix is modified to read 
as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
 

 

 
2. 

 

