CONFORMED COPY 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7948-MX 

Loan Agreement 

 

(School-Based Management Project- Phase II) 
 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated November 9, 2010

LOAN NUMBER 7948-MX 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  November  9,  2010,  between  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES 
(“Borrower”)  as  represented  by  its  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Public  Credit,  and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).   
 

Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as 
set forth in the table in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the 
project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  (“Project”)),  shall  be  used  in 
conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt 
laws  and  the  terms  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby  agree  as 
follows: 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred twenty million Dollars 
($220,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 
Section  IV  of  Schedule  2 
the  Borrower’s 
representative  designated  in  Section  6.01  of  this  Agreement  otherwise  informs 
the  Bank,  the  Borrower’s  representative  for  purposes  of  taking  any  action 
required  or  permitted  to  be  taken  pursuant  to  this  Section  is  the  Director  de 
Organismos  Financieros  Internacionales  of  NAFIN  or  any  person  or  persons 
whom such representative shall designate in writing. 

this  Agreement.  Unless 

to 

 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

The Borrower may (or may cause NAFIN) at any time request any of the 
following  Conversions  of  the  terms  of  the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate 
prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or 
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all 
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower (or NAFIN at the request of 
the Borrower) has requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds 
of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the  Borrower,  withdraw from 
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any 
premium  payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General 
Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for the purpose 
in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

-2- 

 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.   To  this 
end, the Borrower (through SEP) shall, and shall cause the States to, carry out the 
Project,  in  coordination  with  the  Eligible  Schools,  all  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as  the  Borrower  (through  SEP)  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the 
Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01 

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any of 
the parties to the Contrato de Mandato or to the Coordination Agreements shall 
have failed to perform any of their obligations under the Contrato de Mandato or
under  the  Coordination  Agreements  or  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  other 
commitment  undertaken  vis-à-vis  the  Borrower  with  respect  to  this  Project 
(including the transparency commitments referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement).  
 

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period  of  60  days  after  notice  of  the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the 
Borrower. 

 

 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto;  

(a) 
 
(b) 

the  Borrower,  through  SHCP  and  SEP  (in  a  separate  legal  opinion 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  issued  by  Borrower  counsel  acceptable  to  the 
Bank), and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, 
issued  by  NAFIN  counsel  acceptable  to  the  Bank),  indicate  that  the 
Contrato  de  Mandato  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and 
executed  and  delivered  on  behalf  of,  the  Borrower,  and  NAFIN  and  is 
legally  binding  upon the  Borrower,  and  NAFIN  in  accordance  with the 
Contrato de Mandato’s terms; and 

-3- 

 

(c)  

the Oficio referred to in Section I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
has been issued and at least one State has deposited funds in the relevant 
FEEC as a tacit acceptance of the Oficio’s transparency provisions or at 
least  one  State  has  issued  a  note  to  SEP  agreeing  to  comply  with 
transparency provisions acceptable to the Bank. 

 
5.02  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on December 17, 2011. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  Except  as  set  forth  in  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower’s 
Representative  is  the  Titular  de  la  Unidad  de  Crédito  Público  of SHCP.    The 
authorized  representative  to  make  requests  for  Conversions  or  for  an  IBRD 
Hedge (as defined in the Hedging Guidelines) on behalf of the Borrower shall be 
the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP or any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing for this particular purpose. 

 
6.02.  The  Borrower’s  Address  for  the  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of  the  General 

Conditions: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
Palacio Nacional 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 
Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

-4- 

 

 

 

 

 
 

AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 

UNITED MEXICAN STATES 

By /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa  
 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 

Authorized Representative 

-5- 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(a)  

The objective of the Project is to strengthen PEC by increasing overall coverage 
and  social  participation  in  Eligible  Schools  while  putting  greater  emphasis  on  public 
marginalized schools and on the indigenous population, as well as a reorientation of the 
School Grants to improve public schools’ internal efficiency and learning outcomes. 
 

The  Project  constitutes  the  second  phase  of  the  Program,  and  consists  of  the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
 
Part 1: School Grants

Provision of support to PEC, through the provision of School Grants to Eligible Schools 
to implement school improvement plans. 
 
Part 2: Monitoring and Oversight

Provision  of  support  for:  (i)  the  continuous  operation,  maintenance  and 
upgrading  of  the  PEC  national  management  information  system;  and  (ii)  the 
accreditation  and  strengthening  of  State  programs  to  manage  information 
systems,  to  ensure  that  the  information  obtained  through  the  referred  State 
systems is compatible with the national management information system referred 
under Part 2 (a) (i) above and provides all the technical and fiduciary information 
required for the satisfactory implementation of the Project in the relevant State.  

Provision  of  technical  assistance  to  monitor  and  oversee  the  Project  through, 
inter  alia: (i)  the  carrying  out  of  supervision  visits;  (ii)  the  organization  and 
carrying out of seminars and workshops at state level; and (iii) the coordination 
of regional and national meetings attended by PEC’s federal and state authorities.  

(c) 

Design  and  implementation  of  an  information  campaign  to  disseminate  Project 
objectives, activities and results.  

 
Part 3: Policy Development and Evaluation

Carrying out of evaluations and assessments to create a strong analytical basis for 
development  and  improvement  of  PEC,  including:  (i)  an  external  evaluation  of 
PEC’s  performance  and  preparation  of  an  annual  report;  (ii)  a  qualitative 
evaluation  to  determine  the  non-quantifiable  benefits  accruing  from  PEC;  (iii) 
SEP  student  learning  achievements  assessments  using  national  education 
standards for each school year; and (iv) one impact evaluation of the Project. 

(b) 

Carrying  out  of  Project-related  policy  studies  including,  inter  alia,  (i)  studies 
focusing  on  improving  the  coordination  of  PEC  with  other  SEP  programs, 

-6- 

 

including  a  study  to  improve  the  coordination  of  PEC  with  the  program 
administered by CONAFE, and a study to improve the coordination of PEC with 
the  Oportunidades  Program,  and  (ii)  studies  focusing  on  improving  the  equity 
and efficiency of PEC. 

 

-7- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

(a)   Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower (through SEP) and the Bank may 
otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall,  and  shall  cause  the 
States  to,  in  coordination  with  the  Schools,  carry  out  the  Project  in 
accordance  with  the  Operational  Manual.    Except  as  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce 
any provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior written 
approval.  In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  terms  of  the  Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 

(b) 

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this 
Agreement  and  any  other  provisions  for  Project  implementation  set 
forth in this Agreement, with respect to Part 3(a) (i) of the Project, the 
Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  (i)  hire  consultants  (acceptable  to  the 
Bank  and  who  will  work  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank)  to  carry  out  the  external  evaluation  of  PEC’s  performance 
referred under Part 3(a)(i) ab initio of the Project, and (ii) prepare, with 
internal staff of PEC, the annual report referred under Part 3(a)(i) in fine 
of the Project.  

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  maintain  an  operational  manual, 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  containing,  inter  alia,  specific  provisions  on 
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project, including:  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

the  procurement,  disbursement  and  financial  management 
requirements for the Project;  
 
the IPP;  
 
the Key Performance Indicators; 

the  PEC  operational  rules,  including:  (A)  the  different  type  of 
School Grants to be provided under PEC; (B) the conditions for 
Schools  to  receive  grants  under  PEC;  (C)  the  selection  criteria 
and  priorities  established  by  SEP  and  to  be  followed  by  the 
AEEs in the award of School Grants (including Eligible Schools 

 

 

 

 
2. 

(a) 

-8- 

 

 

 

 

 
4. 

with  students  which  come  from  families  that  benefit  from  the 
Oportunidades Program); and (D) the criteria for the school plan 
to  be  prepared  by  Eligible  Schools  in  support  of  School  Grant 
proposals; 

(v) 

(vi) 

the environmental and health regulations to be observed in case 
minor construction or rehabilitation activities need to be carried 
out in the context of School Grants; and 

transparency and anticorruption provisions, including a provision 
stating  that  part  of  the  funds  for  the  PEC  are  provided  by  the 
Bank  through  this  Agreement,  and  therefore  establishing  audit, 
information  and  investigation  rights  for  the  Borrower  (through 
SEP) which the Borrower hereby agrees to share with the Bank 
as set forth in Section D below.   

(b) 

The Borrower shall not amend the Operational Manual without the prior 
agreement with the Bank; provided, however, that the Borrower will be 
able  to  modify  the  section  of  the  Operational  Manual  that  includes  the 
PEC Operational Rules when such modification does not, in the opinion 
of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  adversely  affect  the  performance  or  the 
objectives of the Project.  

 
3. 

(a)  

 

 

(b) 

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  enter  into  a  separate  Coordination 
Agreement,   satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of the Project, with 
each of the States, whereby: 

1. 

 

2. 

the Borrower (through SEP) shall agree to provide or cause to be 
provided,  in  a  timely  manner  as  needed  and  as  provided  for  in 
the Operational Manual, the funds required for implementing the 
Project within each State; and 

the State shall agree to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Project. 

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  ensure  that  each  Coordination 
Agreement be duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
by,  the  Borrower  (through  SEP)  and  each  State  and  be  legally  binding 
upon the Borrower (through SEP) and each State in accordance with the 
relevant Coordination Agreement’s terms. 

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  cause  each  State  to  abide  by  all  applicable 
Project  provisions  laid  out  in  this  Agreement,  including  the  carrying  out  of  the 
Project in accordance to the Operational Manual (including the IPP and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines). 

-9- 

 

5. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 
6. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  cause  each  State  to  ensure  that  each 
Eligible  School  carries  out the  activities  under  the  relevant  School  Grant 
proposal in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.   

In order for an Eligible School to receive a School Grant: (i) the Eligible 
School shall have entered into, and be in compliance with, an agreement 
with  the  relevant  State  (through  its  AEE)  whereby,  in  exchange  for 
deposits  by  the  State of  funds  in a  bank  or  other  account  controlled  by 
the  Eligible  School,  said  Eligible  School  agrees  to  use  such  proceeds 
solely  for  purposes  of  Part  1(a)  of  the  Project,  to  abide  by  the  relevant 
provisions of the Operational Manual and to allow audits and review of 
records by, or on behalf of, the Borrower (through SEP) and the relevant 
State of the use of such proceeds. 

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its 
obligations  under  the  Coordination  Agreements  in  such  manner  as  to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.   

(b) 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  (through  SEP) 
shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the 
Coordination Agreements or any of their provisions in a manner that in 
the  opinion  of  the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  adversely  affects  the 
performance or the objectives of the Project. 

Consistently with Section 7 of the Disbursement Guidelines:  
 
(a) 

if  the  Bank  determines at any  time,  through regular Project  supervision 
and auditing, that an amount of the Loan, disbursed pursuant to Category 
(1) in the table in Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, was not 
used  by  an  Eligible  School  to  acquire  goods,  works  or  services  for 
purposes of the Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank additional evidence, as 
the Bank may request, to justify the use of said amount of the Loan, (in 
the case of such a request made by the Bank within one month before the 
Closing  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  have  up  to  four  months  after  the 
Closing  Date  to  furnish  the  requisite  additional  evidence  to  the  Bank); 
and 

 
(b) 

in  the  event  that  the  evidence  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of  this 
paragraph is not furnished to or found satisfactory by the Bank, the Bank 
reserves  the  right  at  all  times  to  request  a  refund  of  the  corresponding 
portion of the Loan for inclusion in the Loan Account. 

 
7. 

 

-10- 

 

8.  

The Borrower (through SEP) shall: 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 

(b)  

 
(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(a) 

maintain at all times during Project implementation a team acceptable to 
the Bank, which shall be responsible for overall planning, coordination, 
implementation,  supervision,  technical  support  for  basic  education, 
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project,  and  which  shall  have,  inter 
alia, the  responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  the  financial  statements, 
financial reports and Project Reports, and maintenance of the records and 
accounts referred to in Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ensure that the team referred in Section I.A.8 (a) of this Schedule is at all 
times staffed with at least a Project coordinator, a procurement specialist 
and  a  financial  management  specialist,  all  with  terms  of  reference  and 
experience acceptable to the Bank;  

ensure  that  the  team  referred  in  Section  I.A.8  (a)  of  this  Schedule  2  is 
provided with adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out its 
responsibilities; 

with  the  collaboration  of  the  relevant  State,  maintain  records  and 
separate  accounts  adequate  to  reflect,  in  accordance  with  sound 
accounting  practices,  the  funds  and  other  resources  it  (and/or  any 
Eligible  Schools  or  States)  has  received,  allocated  and/or  spent  in 
connection with the Project;  

carry out, and/or cause any Eligible School or State to comply with the 
provisions  of  Section  III  of  this  Schedule  with  respect  to  Part  1of  the 
Project; and 

cooperate  fully  with  NAFIN  so  as  to  allow  NAFIN  to  comply  with 
NAFIN’s obligations referred to in this Agreement. 

 
Contrato de Mandato

B. 

1. 

The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato), 
satisfactory to the Bank, among SEP and NAFIN, whereby, inter alia:

NAFIN  agrees  to  act  as  financial  agent  of  the  Borrower  with  regard  to 
the  Loan,  meaning  that,  inter  alia, NAFIN  agrees  to  represent  the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications  to  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  sufficient  to  justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees 
to  maintain  and  operate  the  designated  account  (referred  to  in  the 
additional  instructions  cited  in  Section  IV.A.1  of  this  Schedule  2)  in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement;  

-11- 

 

 

2. 

 
C. 

(b) 

NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 

 

 

(c) 

(d) 

the Borrower (through SEP) agrees to carry out the Project in accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  including  the  IPP,  the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines,  and  the  Operational  Manual  (including  the 
Project’s financial management and procurement arrangements);   

the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or 
corruption (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the 
early termination of the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its 
effects,  or,  if  applicable,  require  the  restitution  of  funds  transferred  to 
NAFIN under said Contrato de Mandato; and  

(e) 

the  Borrower  (through  SEP)  agrees  to  cooperate  fully  with  NAFIN  to 
ensure  that  NAFIN  is  able  to  comply  with  all  of  NAFIN’s  obligations 
referred to in Section I.B.1(a) and (b) herein.  

 
The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the 
Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  The Borrower shall not amend, waive or 
fail to enforce the Contrato de Mandato or any provision thereof, except as the 
Bank  may  otherwise  agree.    In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  terms  of  the 
Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement 
shall prevail. 

Trust Agreements (Fideicomisos)

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The Borrower (through SEP) shall transfer the funds to finance Parts1 of 
the Project through the FNEC and through the relevant FEEC.   

The Borrower shall ensure and shall cause the States to ensure, through 
the exercise of the Borrower’s voice and voting rights and the exercise of 
the  State’s  voice  and  voting  rights  in  the  technical  committees  of  the 
FNEC or the FEECs, as it may correspond, that the Project is carried out 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement (including the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines provisions and the IPP). 

The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the  FNEC  and  under  the  FEECs  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except 
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, waive 
or fail to enforce any provision of the FNEC or of any of the FEECs. In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the FNEC or of the FEECs and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

-12- 

 

D. 

1. 

 

 
2. 

3. 

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.  In  this  regard,  the  Borrower, 
through SEP or through any other entity as the Borrower may deem appropriate, 
shall, inter alia, ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

by  requiring  the  States  to  take  appropriate  measures  to  prevent,  inform 
on, respond to and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and 
obstructive  practices  with  respect  to  their  payment  (or  that  of  their 
agents) of School Grants; 

by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents 
of  any/or  all  the  States  relating  to  the  Project  upon  the  Bank’s  request 
and in the company of SEP representatives; 

by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and 
other documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank’s 
terms  of  reference  for  such  purpose,  with  the  collaboration  of  the 
Borrower, through SEP; and 

restitution  and 

by agreeing to obtain restitution from any/or all of the States, as the case 
may  be,  of  any  amount  of  the  Loan  with  respect  to  which  fraud  and 
corruption  has  occurred,  all  the  above  pursuant  to  audit,  transparency, 
the 
control, 
Coordination  Agreements  and  its  annual  annexes,  the  Operational 
Manual,  letters  from  the  State  to  the  Borrower  (to  SEP),  the  Oficio 
referred  under  Section  I.D.2  below,  and/or  any  other  means  (including, 
but  not  limited  to  the  Borrower’s  rights  under  the  Federal  Budget  and 
Fiscal  Responsibility  Law,  the  General  Public  Debt  Law,  and  the 
Monitoring and Accountability Law). 

information  sharing  clauses  within 

The Borrower (through SEP) shall issue a notice (Oficio) acceptable to the Bank 
asking  the  States to comply  with  transparency  provisions,  and stating  that  once 
the  States  have  deposited  funds  in  the  relevant  FEEC,  such  deposit  will  be 
interpreted as a tacit acceptance of the Oficio’s transparency provisions. 
 
The Borrower (through SEP) shall issue a notice to the financial institutions that 
administer  the  funds  under  the  FNEC  and  the  FEECs  informing  them  of  the 
existence of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines (and accompanying a copy thereof), 
and notifying them that if any of those financial institutions incur in any of the 
sanctionable offences described under the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, the Bank 
may  sanction  the  relevant  financial  institution  in  accordance  with  the  Bank’s 
sanctions regime. 

-13- 

 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall,  and  shall  cause  the  States,  to  monitor  and 
evaluate  the  progress  of  the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
Key Performance Indicators.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  sixty  (60) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall,  and  shall  cause  the  States,  to  maintain  or 
cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower 
(through SEP) shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the pertinent semester, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 

The Borrower (through SEP) shall have the Project Financial Statements audited 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the  Borrower,  commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  Project  becomes 
effective.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period. 

 
Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Services  (other  than  Consultants’  Services).   All  goods, 
works  and  Services  (other  than  Consultants’  Services)  required  for  the  Project 
and to be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under 
the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or 

-14- 

 

 
B. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

B. 

 
1. 

 
2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  and  with  the 
provisions of this Section. 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Special  Provisions.    The  Borrower  (through  SEP)  shall:  (a)  supply  the  SEPA 
with  the  information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan  within  45  days 
after the Project has been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement 
Plan  at  least  once  a  year,  or  as  needed  through  the  duration  of  the  Project,  to 
reflect  the  actual  Project  implementation  needs  and  progress  and  supply  the 
SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the  updated  Procurement  Plan 
immediately thereafter. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services) 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods,  works  and  services  (other  than  Consultants’  Services)  shall  be 
procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  International  Competitive 
Bidding procedures. 

Other  Methods  of Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Services  (other  than 
The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of 
Consultants’  Services).
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for  goods,  works  and  services  (other  than  Consultants’  Services).    The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 

-15- 

 

Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualification 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2,  5.3  and  5.4  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines for the selection of Individual Consultants 

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 

The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on 
or after the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to 
Section  3.01  of  the  General  Conditions.    The  remaining  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank and so reflected in the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A.1 
immediately  above.    Consistently  with  Section  2.05  of  the  General  Conditions, 
the Borrower shall use an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided 
under the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the 
Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, 
and  the  percentage  of  expenditures  to  be  financed  for  Eligible  Expenditures  in 
each Category. 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

-16- 

 

Category

under 

(1)  Goods,  Works  and 
Services 
Consultants’ 
School 
financed 
Grants  
(2) Operating Costs 
(3) Consultant Services  
 
(4) Front-end Fee  

Interest 

(5) Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps  and 
rate 
Collars (amounts due under 
section  2.07  (c)  of 
this 
Agreement) 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

 

 

 

 

 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD)

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)

211,720,000 

90% 

3,300,000 
4,430,000 

550,000 

0 

100% 
100% 

Amount  payable  pursuant 
to  Section  2.03  of 
this 
Agreement  in  accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

220,000,000 

 

4. 

For  purposes  of  this  Section  IV.A  the  following  term  shall  have  the  following 
meaning: 

 

(a) 

 
B. 

1. 

(a) 

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs related to (i) conferences, 
workshops  and  training  related  expenditures  (including  space  and 
equipment rental,  and  utilities), (ii) transportation  and  supervision  costs 
(including reimbursement of travel costs and reasonable per diems), (iii) 
dissemination costs (including printing costs, and public events), and (iv) 
minor office supplies. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal 
shall  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, 
except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed 
$44,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  this 
date but after June 30, 2009 but in no case made more than twelve (12) 
months prior to the date of this Agreement; and. 

-17- 

 

(b) 

for payments made under Category (1) of the table under Part A of this 
Section  unless  the  State  for  which  School  Grants  will  be  financed  has 
either (i) deposited funds under the relevant FEEC as a tacit acceptance 
of the transparency provisions requested under Section I.D.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement or (ii) sent a note to SEP committing to comply with 
transparency provisions acceptable to the Bank.   

2. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 

-18- 

 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December 

 

15, 2027. 
 

-19- 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

7. 

8. 

 
9. 

APPENDIX 

Section I.  Definitions

“AEE”  means  Autoridad  de  Educación  Estatal, the  education  authority  (Public 
Education Secretariat or equivalent) of each State. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“CONAFE” means the Borrower’s National Council for Educational Development 
(Consejo  Nacional  de  Fomento  Educativo),  regulated  under  a  Decree  of  the 
Borrower, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on September 10, 1971 (as 
amended by a Decree published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on February 11, 
1982). 
 
“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 

“Contrato  de  Mandato” means  the  Agreement  to  be  entered  into  among  the 
Borrower,  through  SHCP,  SEP  and  NAFIN,  pursuant  to  Section  I.B.1  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Coordination  Agreement”  means  any  of  the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section 
I.A.3 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
 
“Eligible  School”  means  a  public  school  located  in  the  Borrower’s  territory, 
where basic education (pre-school and grades 1 through 9) level classes are held, 
which  school  meets  eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  (as 
hereinafter  defined)  to  participate  as  a  beneficiary  school  under  PEC  (as 
hereinafter defined). 

“FEEC” means each of the trust funds (fideicomiso) duly established in each of 
the  States  or  any  subaccount  established  in  the  FNEC  and  managed  by  the 
relevant State as part of the implementation structure of PEC, with the objective 
of  channeling  PEC  funds  in  the  form  of  School  Grants  to  Eligible  Schools,  as 
said trust funds may be amended with the agreement of the Bank.  
 

-20- 

 

10. 

11. 

 
12. 

13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 
 
16. 

 
17. 

18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

21. 

“Federal  Budget  and  Fiscal  Responsibility  Law”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ley 
Federal  de  Presupuesto  y  Responsabilidad  Hacendaria, as  said  law  and  its 
subsequent  amendments  have  been  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  through 
December 31, 2008. 
 
“FNEC”  means  the  Borrower’s  national  trust  fund  (fideicomiso) established  as 
part of the implementation structure of PEC (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to 
the trust fund agreement dated August 22, 2001 with the objective of channeling 
PEC funds to the FEECs, as said trust fund may be amended with the agreement 
of the Bank. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
“General  Public  Debt  Law”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ley  General  de  Deuda 
Pública, as said law and its subsequent amendments have been published in the 
Official Gazette through December 21, 1995. 

“Hedging Guidelines” means the Bank’s Guidelines for Using Hedging Products 
dated March 23, 2009 or any later guidelines issued by the Bank to replace said 
guidelines. 

“IPP” means the Borrower’s Indigenous Peoples Plan dated January 2010. 

“Key Performance Indicators” means the indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives. 

“Monitoring and Accountability Law” means the Borrower’s Ley de Fiscalización 
y Rendición  de  Cuentas  de  la  Federación, as  said  law  and  its  subsequent 
amendments have been published in the Official Gazette through May 29, 2009. 
 
“NAFIN”  means  Nacional  Financiera,  S.N.C., a Mexican  development  bank 
serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 

“Official  Gazette”  means  the  Recipient’s  official  gazette  (Diario  Oficial  de  la 
Federación). 

“Oficio”  means  the  notice  referred  in  Section  I.D.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 
 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, dated April 26, 2010, as said manual may be amended from 
time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 

-21- 

 

22. 

23. 

 
24. 

 
25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

 
31. 

“Oportunidades Program” means the Borrower’s program to assist poor families 
through  the  provision  of  cash  transfers  conditional  on  compliance  with  the 
conditions referred to in the operational rules in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
on December 29, 2009. 
 
“PEC”  means  the  Borrower’s  Programa  Escuelas  de  Calidad, which  program 
operates under the operating rules published in the Official Gazette on December 
24, 2009, with the objective of, inter alia: strengthening and promoting schools’ 
autonomy,  parental  participation  accountability,  and  the  active  involvement  of 
the schools’ community in the delivery of basic education services, through the 
provision of School Grants. 

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  April  14,  2010,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
“Program” means the Borrower’s School-Based Management Program detailed in 
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated October 12, 2005. 
 
“School Grant” means a grant not to exceed $9,000 equivalent per Eligible School 
per year, made or proposed to be made under PEC, through FNEC and FEEC, out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, to Eligible Schools for the financing of goods, works 
and services to implement school improvement plans, under Part 1 of the Project. 
 
“SEP” means Secretaría de Educación Pública, the Borrower’s Public Education 
Ministry. 
 
“SEPA”  means  the  Bank’s  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans  Execution 
System. 
 
“SHCP”  means  Secretaría  de  Hacienda  y  Crédito  Público,
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.  

the  Borrower’s 

“State” means the Federal District (Distrito Federal) and any of the other thirty one 
geopolitical subdivisions (Estados) of the Borrower. 
 

-22- 

 

Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
 

Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  

“Section  2.07.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest 
 

(a) 

If  the  Loan  Agreement  provides  for  the  repayment  out  of  the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  of  an  advance  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  on  or  after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to 
repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding  balance  of  the  advance  as  at  the  date  of 
such  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  and  to  pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

... 
(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive  proceeds  of  any  financing  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  or 
otherwise  to  participate  in  the  preparation  or  implementation  of  any  project 
financed  in  whole  or  in  part  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association,  as  a  result  of  a 
determination  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project 
Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in  fraudulent,  corrupt,  coercive  or  collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(b) 

 

The  definition  of  the  term  “Conversion  Date”  is  modified  to  read  as 
follows: 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
the  Conversion  Guidelines.” 
in 
and 

specified 

further 

as 

 
2. 

3. 

 

-23- 

 

-24- 

 

