CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7894-EG 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Third Financial Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 

ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 

between 
 

and 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated May 26, 2010 
 

LOAN NUMBER 7894-EG 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  May  26,  2010,  entered  into  between  ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF 
EGYPT (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of  the 
Program  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).    The  Bank  has  decided  to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already  taken  under its  Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

 
2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at 
a rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  

2

2.05.  The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 

(b) 

 

2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation), the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

 
2.09.  The  Central  Bank  of  Egypt  is  designated  as  the  representative  of  the  Borrower 
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions  of  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  II  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

2.10.  The  Borrower  represents  that  it  has  designated  its  Ministry  of  Finance  for  the 
purpose  of  handling  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,  debt  service  payments  with 
respect of the Loan. 

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower,  through  the  Central  Bank  of  Egypt  and  the  Ministry  of 
Investment, declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To 
this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

(a) 

the  Borrower,  through  the  Central  Bank  of  Egypt  and  the  Ministry  of 
Investment, and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 

 

 

 

3

 

party,  exchange  views  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the 
Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  exchange  views  with  the  Bank  on  any 
proposed  action  to  be  taken  after  the  disbursement  of  the  Loan  which 
would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program,  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 

 
4.01.  This agreement shall become effective once the Bank has received evidence that 
all  the  necessary  constitutional  procedures  have  been  taken  by  the  Borrower 
according to Section 9.01 of the General Conditions. 

 
4.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the  date  of  this  Agreement,  or  such  later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish  in 
accordance with Section 9.04 of the General Conditions.  

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

5.01.  The  Minister  of  International  Cooperation  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Assistant  to 
the Minister for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 

 
5.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8 Adly Street 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable address:   
 

 

 

Ministry of International Cooperation 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 

 

 

 
 

 

Facsimile: 

(202) 2391-2815 
(202) 2391-5167 

4

5

 

5.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above 

written. 

ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 

 

 

 
 

 

Authorized Representative  

By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ A. David Craig 

 

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Section I.

Actions Taken Under the Program

The  Borrower  has  adopted  a  series  of  measures  and  policies  designed  to  deepen  the 
reforms undertaken by the Borrower over the last several years to increase the efficiency 
of its financial sector as reflected in the Program which include the following actions: (i) 
taken  appropriate  action  to  empower  state-owned  enterprises  to  settle  non-performing 
loans  due  by  the  said  state-owned  enterprises  to  state-owned  commercial  banks;  (ii) 
ensured that Principal Bank for Development and Agriculture Credit is regulated by the 
Borrower’s Law No 88 of 2003; (iii)  taken  measures required for implementation of the 
provisions of   Law No 118 of 2008 governing transactions pertaining to life and non-life 
insurance  portfolios;  (iv)  adopted  revamped  and  streamlined  procedures  to  facilitate 
access to relevant financial products and to capital markets by underserved segments of 
the  population;  (v)  established  the  Egyptian  Financial  Supervisory  Authority;  (vi) 
established  an  adequate  regulatory  framework  to  foster  appropriate  delivery  of  
microfinance, leasing and factoring services; (vii) enacted adequate legislation governing 
the operations of private pension funds; (viii) adopted an adequate regulatory framework 
governing  the  conduct  of  mobile  phone  payments;  (ix)  concluded  appropriate 
arrangements to foster adequate implementation of the Basel II protocols; (x) established 
an  adequate  framework  to  sustain  the  production  and  regular  dissemination  of  its 
financial stability report; and (xi) established an automatic clearing house. 
 
Section II.

Availability of Loan Proceeds

A. 

 
B. 

 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional arrangements as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the 
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of  the  Loan  proceeds.    The  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations 

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 

Amount of the Loan  
Allocated 
(expressed in United States Dollars) 
498,750,000 

(2) Front-end Fee 

1,250,000 

 

 
 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

500,000,000

7

C. 
 

D. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
E. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  

Withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche considering the fact 
that:  (a)  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  have  exchanged  views  on  the  actions 
undertaken  under  the  Program;  and  (b)  the  Borrower  has  maintained  an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:  
 
all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower’s  budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

 Excluded Expenditures.

The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  not  be  used  to 
finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If  the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that  an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon 
such request shall be cancelled. 

F. 

 Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 

8

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

1. 

 

2. 

 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each June 1 and December 1 
 

Beginning June 1, 2017 
through December 1, 2037 

 
On June 1, 2038 
 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

2.33% 
 
2.14% 
 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 

9

 
(a) 

3. 

amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 

4. 

 
5. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

10

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
 

 “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

Group 

Sub-group 

112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718  

728 
897  

971  

 
 

 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728.43  
897.3 

Description of Item 
 

Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

(c) 

 

11

(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements  to  which  the  Borrower  is  a  party,  and  any  other  goods 
designated  as  environmentally  hazardous  by  agreement  between  the 
Borrower and the Bank); 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 

 “Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
deepen the reforms undertaken by the Borrower to increase the efficiency of its 
financial sector (the second generation of the Financial Sector Reform Program) 
as set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits) are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 

 

 
7. 

12

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

…
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

The  definition  of  the  term  “Conversion  Date”  is  modified  to  read  as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

13

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

(c) 

 
(d) 

 

 

