CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 7954-PE 

Loan Agreement 

 
(Fourth Programmatic Fiscal Management and Competitiveness 
Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated September 23, 2010 

 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement  dated  September  23,  2010,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC  OF  PERÚ 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing  financing  in  support  of  the 
Program  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).    The  Bank  has  decided  to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section  I of Schedule 1 to 
this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an  appropriate  macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 

 
ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions  or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $100,000,000 (one hundred million 
Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 

 
2.02. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

The  Borrower’s  Director  of  Public  Indebtedness,  or  any  person 
designated in writing, is designated as the representative of the Borrower 
for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article II of the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 

- 2 - 

 

 

 

 

shall be determined  in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (d)  of  the  General 
Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  
 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

(a) 

 

- 3 - 

 

 

(b) 

 
(c) 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program,  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that 
a  situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or 
 
 
a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out 
the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework. 

 
5.02.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on February 27, 2012. 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01.  Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.02  (b)  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower’s 
representative  is  its  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance,  provided  that  the 
Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the 
Borrower  to  sign  amendments  to  this  Agreement  which  are  considered  of  an 
administrative  and  non-financial  nature.    The  signing  by  such  Director  of  an 
amendment  shall  constitute  a  representation  by  the  Borrower  that  any  such 
amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.   

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile: 

(511) 626-9921 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

- 4 - 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 
 
 
AGREED at Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 

REPUBLIC OF PERÚ 
 
 
 
By /s/ Ismael Benavides 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

- 5 - 

Section I. 
 
A. 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information 
 

Actions Taken under the Program 

The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under  the  Program  to  promote  sound  fiscal 
management  by,  inter  alia:  (i)  increasing  the  sustainability  and  transparency  of 
fiscal  policy;  (ii)  enhancing  the  neutrality  and  stability  of  the  tax  system;  (iii) 
strengthening  budget  planning  and  reporting;  (iv)  increasing  equity  in  inter-
governmental  transfers;  and  (v)  improving  the  efficiency  and  impact  of  public 
spending, include the following: 

Issuance  of  various  legal  instruments  pertaining  to  performance-based 
transfer  of  resources  from  the  Executive  to  Municipalities,  including, 
inter alia, the following:  

(a) 

 
(b)  

 
(c)  

Decree (Decreto de Urgencia No. 119-2009 Modifican Artículos 
de 
las  Leyes  Nos.  29332  y  29465  y  Dictan  Medidas 
Extraordinarias  Para  el  Financiamiento  de  la  Continuidad  de 
las Inversiones durante el Año Fiscal 2010) dated December 23, 
2009  and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El 
Peruano) on December 24, 2009.   

Decrees No. 002-2010-EF and 003-2010-EF, both dated January 
11,  2010  and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El 
Peruano)  on  January  12,  2010,  establishing  the  procedures 
regulating performance measurement criteria and targets and the 
allocation of resources to Municipalities. 

Resolution No. 008-2010-EF/76.01 issued by the Directorate of 
Public  Budget  on  March  30,  2010  and  published  in  the 
Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El  Peruano)  on  April  1,  2010, 
approving  the  results  of  compliance  by  Municipalities  of 
performance  targets  as  reported  by  said  Municipalities  by 
February 2010.  

 
Issuance  of  Resolution  No.  036-2010/SUNAT  dated  January  29,  2010 
and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El  Peruano)  on 
January  31,  2010,  providing  for  procedures  aimed  at  improving  tax 
compliance,  through,  inter  alia,  the  establishment  of  online  tax  filing 
procedures (Formulario Virtual para la Declaración y Pago de Renta de 
Segunda Categoría) in regard to income taxes (impuesto a la renta). 

 

 

 

1. 

 

2. 

- 6 - 

Enactment  by  the  Legislature  of  the  Borrower’s  Law  No.  29537  dated 
June  7,  2010  and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El 
Peruano)  on  June  8,  2010,  mandating  the  timely  preparation  and 
disclosure  of  consolidated  government  financial  statements  (Cuenta 
General de la República) and audit reports aimed at strengthening further 
the Borrower’s budget reporting capacity. 

Issuance of Supreme Decree No. 060-2010-EF dated February 17, 2010 
and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El  Peruano)  on 
February 18, 2010, setting forth a new methodology for the allocation of 
FONCOMUN  resources  to  Municipalities,  thereby  promoting  equity  in 
transfers of resources from the Executive to the Municipalities. 

taken  by 

the  Program 

the  Borrower  under 

to  strengthen 
The  actions 
competitiveness  by, inter alia: (i)  expanding and  facilitating  international trade; 
and (ii) promoting sustainable financial deepening, include the following: 
 
1. 

The  closure  of  the  negotiation  process  of  a  proposed  trade 
agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  the  EU,  as  evidenced  by 
the signing of the Joint Declaration on May 19, 2010. 

(a)  

(b) 

The issuance of Supreme Decree No. 096-2010-EF dated March 
26,  2010  and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El 
Peruano) on March 27, 2010 establishing October 1, 2010 as the 
completion date for the progressive implementation of simplified 
customs procedures.  

The  adoption  of  Resolution  CONASEV  No.  068-2009/94.01.1  dated 
September 24, 2009 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El 
Peruano) on September 29, 2010, aimed at strengthening the Borrower’s 
regulatory framework for asset securitization and therefore promoting the 
development of the Borrower’s capital markets.  
 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

 

3. 

 

4. 

 
B. 

 

 
2. 

Section II. 
 
A. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
B. 

 

 
C. 

 
D. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 

 
F. 

 
G. 
 
H. 

- 7 - 

Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The  Loan is allocated  in a single tranche, from 
which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation 
of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

 
 
Allocations 

 Single Withdrawal Tranche 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
100,000,000 
 
100,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions 

No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of  the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the 
Bank  is  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being  carried  out  by  the  Borrower; 
and  (b)  with  the  appropriateness  of  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

 
2.  

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures.    The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 

Access to Information.  The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any 
information  related  to  the  Legal  Agreements  in  accordance  with  its  policy  on 
access to information, in effect at the time of such disclosure.  

- 8 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

 
Principal Payment Date 
October 15, 2021 
April 15, 2022 
October 15, 2022 
April 15, 2023 
October 15, 2023 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
20 % 
35 % 
15 % 
20 % 
10 % 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

 
1. 

 
2.  

 

 

 

 

- 9 - 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

4. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in  the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

 

2. 

 
3. 

4. 
 

- 10 - 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“CONASEV” means Comisión Nacional Supervisora de Empresas y Valores, the 
Borrower’s  commission  for  the  supervision  of  enterprises  and  securities 
established and operating within the Ministry of Economy and Finance pursuant 
to  the  provisions  of  the  Borrower’s  Law  Decree  No.  19648  dated  December  5, 
1972  and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El  Peruano)  on 
December 7, 1972, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
“Directorate  of  Public  Budget”  means  Dirección  General  de  Presupuesto 
Público,  the  Borrower’s  budget  general  directorate  within  the  Ministry  of 
Economy and Finance. 

“European  Union”  or  “EU”  means  a  political  and  economic  integration 
mechanism  promoting  cooperation  among  its  states  established  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  of  the  Maastricht  Treaty,  dated  July  29,  1992,  and  published  in  the 
EU’s Official Journal No. C.191 on July 29, 1992, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

Sub-group 
 
 

 

 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 

 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

- 11 - 

Group 
667 

Sub-group 
 

718 

728 
897 

718.7 
 

728.43 
897.3 

971 

 

Description of Item 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
Tobacco processing machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

 
“Executive” means the Borrower’s executive branch of government  
 
“FONCOMUN”  means  Fondo  de  Compensación  Municipal,  the  Borrower’s 
municipal  compensatory  fund  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the 
provisions  of  the  Borrower’s  Legislative  Decree  No.  776  dated  December  30, 
1993  and  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (El  Peruano)  on 
December 31, 1993, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 

 
(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 
 
(j) 

 
(k) 

(l) 

 
(m) 

 
(n) 

- 12 - 

“Joint  Declaration”  means Declaración  de  Conclusión  de  las  Negociaciones  de 
un Acuerdo Comercial entre la República del Perú, la República de Colombia y 
la  Unión  Europea,  the  joint  declaration  signed  between  the  Borrower 
(represented  by  its  Ministers  of  External  Relations  and  Foreign  Trade  and 
Tourism),  the  Republic  of  Colombia  and  the  EU  (represented  by  the  EU 
Commissioner for Trade) dated May 19, 2010.  
 
“Law  No.  29332”  means  Ley  No.  29332  que  Crea  el  Plan  de  Incentivos  a  la 
Mejora de la Gestión Municipal, the Borrower’s Law dated March 20, 2009 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on March 21, 2009, as 
amended  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  establishing  the  Borrower’s  plan  of 
financial incentives to improve managerial practice, at the Municipality-level. 
 
“Law No. 29465” means Ley No. 29465 de Presupuesto del Sector Público para 
el  Año  Fiscal  del  2010,  the  Borrower’s  Law  dated  December  7,  2009  and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on December 8, 2009, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement, establishing the Borrower’s Programa 
its 
de  Modernización  Municipal,  a  program  for 
Municipalities. 
 
“Legislature” means the Borrower’s legislative branch of government. 

the  modernization  of 

“Ministry of Economy and Finance” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, 
the Borrower’s ministry responsible for economy and finance, and its successor 
or successors thereto. 

“Municipality” means municipalidad, a political subdivision of the Borrower. 
 
“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  July  7,  2010  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 

“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

 “SUNAT” means Superintendencia Nacional de Administración Tributaria, the 
Borrower’s regulatory agency responsible for tax administration established and 
operating  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Borrower’s  Law  No.  24829  dated 
June 7, 1988 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on 
June 8, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 

- 13 - 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  

(a) 

“Section  2.05.  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest 
 
If  the  Loan  Agreement  provides  for  the  repayment  out  of  the 
 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  of  an  advance  made  by  the  Bank  or  the  Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from  the  Loan  Account  on  or  after  the  Effective  Date  the  amount  required  to 
repay  the  withdrawn  and  outstanding  balance  of  the  advance  as  at  the  date  of 
such  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  and  to  pay  all  accrued  and  unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 

 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 

 

 

 

- 14 - 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
… 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:  

The  definition  of  the  term  “Conversion  Date”  is  modified  to  read  as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

(b) 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   

(a) 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

 
 

 
 

- 15 - 

 

(e) 

 

 

The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (d) above is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows: 

“‘Preparation  Advance’  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  the  Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 

