CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 7914-ID 

Loan Agreement 

(Local Government and Decentralization Project) 
 

 

between 
 

and 
 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated June 23, 2010 
 

AGREEMENT 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
23, 
INDONESIA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).   
 

2010, 

dated 

June 

between  REPUBLIC  OF          

The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions 
for Loans, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) (“General 
Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred twenty million United 
States Dollars (US$220,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07  of  this  Agreement  (“Loan”),  to  assist  in  financing  Part  1  of  the  project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the  General  Conditions.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment 
continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 

2

Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(d)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the 
principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the 
establishment  of  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the 
Variable Rate. 

 

 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.   To  this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the Ministry of Finance, as 
the  executing  agency,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the 
General  Conditions,  and  BPKP  shall  carry  out 
the  Verification  and 
Reimbursement Procedures in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference, and 
the Verification Arrangement. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Events  of  Suspension  consist  of  the  following:  (a)  any  of  the 
DAK  Implementing  Regulations  have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the implementation of 

3

5.01.  The  Additional  Conditions  of  Effectiveness  consist  of 

the  following:                  

the Project; or (b) BPKP at any time shall have ceased to perform the function of 
the  VO  in  accordance  with  the  VO  Terms  of  Reference  or  shall  have  failed  to 
perform  its  obligations  under  the  Verification  Arrangement,  without  the 
Borrower  having  put  in  place  replacement  arrangements  for  verification 
satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank;  or  (c)  the  TA  Funds  shall  not  have 
been  made  available  in  accordance  with  Section  I.C  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement in any Fiscal Year of Project implementation.  

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Events  of  Acceleration  consist  of  the  following:  (a)  the  event 
specified in Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement occurs; or (b) the event specified 
in  (b)  or  (c)  of  Section  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

(i) the Borrower, through the MOF, shall have adopted the Operations Manual, in 
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  including  the 
requirements  of  Section  I.B.1  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  shall  have 
established  the  PIU  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  Section  I.A.1  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) MPW shall have issued a Ministerial Circular 
Letter 
the  Supplemental  Technical  Guidelines 
(Environmental and Social Safeguards) acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank 
to  all  Pilot  Local  Governments;  and  (iii)  VO  Terms  of  Reference  have  been 
agreed between the Borrower and BPKP, and between the Bank and BPKP, and 
BPKP and the Bank shall have entered into the Verification Arrangement. 

the  use  of 

requiring 

 
5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

 
 
 
 
 

4

Cable address:   

 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

FINMINISTRY 45799    
 
Jakarta   

 

DJMLN-IA 
44319 DEPKEU-IA 

 

(21) 381 2859 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Cable address:   

Telex:   

 

 Facsimile: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

 

248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

5

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 

By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 

Authorized Representative 

6

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the accountability and reporting of the central 
government’s  Specific  Purpose  Grants  (DAK)  for  the  infrastructure  sub-sectors  within 
Pilot Local Governments. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:   DAK Reimbursement  

Reimbursing  the  Borrower  for  Outputs  produced  by  Sub-projects  undertaken  by  Pilot 
Local Governments financed by annual DAK Transfers and annual LG Contributions for 
road, water and sanitation, and irrigation. 

Part 2:  Institutional Strengthening for Central and Local Governments and Project 
Management Support  

2.1. 
Developing  a  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  System.  Designing  and 
implementing  a  monitoring  and  evaluation  system  for  financial  and  technical/output 
reporting  on  DAK  by:  (i)  strengthening  MOF’s  monitoring  of  financial  reports  and 
building  capacity  of  Pilot  Local  Governments  in  developing  an  integrated  system  of 
financial  and  physical  reports  that  can  be  automatically  generated  and  linked  to  the 
Borrower’s existing systems; (ii) developing a strategy for monitoring and evaluation of 
DAK and building capacity in MPW and strengthening MPW’s management information 
system  to  provide  information  on  activities  and  physical  outputs;  and  (iii)  developing 
instruments to monitor progress and provide feedback on the quality of service delivery 
and implementation, and to detect problems for timely correction. 

2.2.  Web-Based Monitoring and Reporting System. (i) Expanding and enhancing 
MOF’s  web-based  transfer  monitoring  system  to  become  a  Web-Based  Reporting 
System,  which  will  be  used  to  report  all  transfers  from  MOF  to  Local  Governments, 
including DAK allocations, disbursement of DAK transfers and verification of physical 
progress and Outputs; and (ii) making the Web-Based Monitoring and Reporting System 
accessible  to  and  providing  training  in  its  use  by  MOF,  Local  Governments  MPW, 
MOHA and BAPPENAS.  

Technical  Assistance  for  Central  and  Local  Governments.

2.3. 
Providing 
technical  assistance  and  capacity  building  for:  (i)  strengthening  of  the  operational 
institutional framework at the central level (other than with respect to development of a 
monitoring and evaluation system); and (ii) strengthening Local Governments’ ability to 
meet requirements for DAK planning, usage and reporting. 

7

Project  Management  Support. Provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and 
2.4. 
other  material  support  to  strengthen  the  PIU  and  support  the  management  of  the 
incremental activities generated by the Project. 

Part 3.  Verification of Outputs. BPKP undertaking its own strengthening of capacity 
to conduct verification of Outputs, which includes technical (engineering), procurement, 
financial management and environmental and social safeguards. 

8

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements 

The Borrower, through MOF, shall: 

A. 

1. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

(d) 

establish  and  maintain  until  completion  of  the  Project,  a  steering 
committee comprising representatives of MOF, MPW, BAPPENAS and 
MOHA; 
 
establish  and  maintain,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  the  PIU  in  the 
Directorate  General  of  Fiscal  Balance  of  MOF  responsible  for  the 
management and monitoring of the Project, headed by a project manager 
and  including  qualified  staff  in  adequate  numbers  (including  a  general 
coordinator  and  administrative  support  staff)  and  supported  by  expert 
consultants in the following areas:  (i) an environmental-social-technical 
coordinator;  (ii)  a  civil  works  monitoring/supervising  engineer;  (iii)  a 
financial  management  specialist;    and  (iv)  a  procurement  specialist,  in 
each case with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Borrower 
and Bank; 

ensure that the PIU is at all times provided with adequate funds and other 
resources  as  shall  be  necessary  to  accomplish  the  objectives  of  the 
Project; and 
 
ensure that the PIU shall coordinate the management of the Project with 
designated  staff  in  BPKP  and  MPW,  in  each  case  meeting  the 
requirements  of  paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)  of  this  Section  I.A  of  this 
schedule 2, respectively. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  until  completion  of  the  Project,  an 
arrangement  with  BPKP  pursuant  to  which  MOF  has  requested  and 
BPKP has agreed to undertake verification of Outputs for the Project in 
accordance  with  the  VO  Terms  of  Reference,  which  shall  include  the 
Verification  and  Reimbursement  Procedures  set  out  in  paragraph  5  of 
Section I.B of this Schedule 2.   
 

 
2. 

BPKP 

(a) 

9

3. 

 
MPW 

(a) 

BPKP  and  the  Bank  shall  enter  into  the  Verification  Arrangement 
pursuant  to  which  BPKP  shall  undertake,  until  the  completion  of  the 
Project,    verification  of  Outputs  for  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the 
VO Terms of Reference, including the Verification and Reimbursement 
Procedures set out in paragraph 5 of Section I.B of this Schedule 2. 
 
The following institutional arrangements at BPKP are conditions for the 
Bank  to  provide  any  Advance  Payment  or  Reimbursement  to  the 
Borrower  under  the  Project.    BPKP  shall  at  all  times  during  Project 
implementation,  maintain  adequate  staffing  arrangements  (including  in 
technical,  procurement,  financial  management  and  environmental  and 
social safeguards capacity) with qualified personnel, technical assistance 
consultants  and/or  arrangements  with  personnel  of  MPW  or  other 
agencies  of  the  Borrower  in  order  to  accomplish  the  verification  of 
Outputs in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference.  

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  MPW  shall  enter  into  an  arrangement, 
with  BPKP,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  as  necessary,  to  define  and  agree 
MPW’s  participation  in  verification  activities  conducted  by  BPKP  in 
accordance with the VO Terms of Reference and Section I.A.2(c) of this 
Schedule  2,  prior  to  BPKP  commencing  such  verification  activities  for 
the first time. 

The Borrower shall ensure that MPW shall, in consultation with the PIU 
and  BAPPENAS,  undertake  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project, 
including:  (i) preparing  annual  monitoring  and evaluation  reports  based 
in  each  year  of  Project 
on  Outputs  delivered  by  March  31 
implementation;  and  (ii)  with  the  PIU,  conducting  the  mid-term  review 
in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section II.A of this Schedule 2. 

that,  at  all 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure 
times  during  Project 
implementation,  MPW  shall  maintain  adequate  staff  and/or  technical 
assistance consultants in adequate numbers and be provided at all times 
with adequate funds and other resources as shall be necessary: (i) in the 
Inspectorate  General  of  MPW  to  undertake  activities  to  support 
Verification  of  Outputs,  including  technical,  environmental  and  social 
safeguards  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  Sub-projects;  and  (ii)  in  the 
Secretary  General  of  MPW,  to  support  Pilot  Local  Governments  in  the 
technical,  environmental  and 
safeguards  planning  and 
implementation of Sub-projects, in each case as necessary to accomplish 
the objective of the Project. 

social 

(b) 

(c) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

10 

4. 

Local  Governments.    The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  ensure  that  each 
Local Government shall submit a Commitment Letter to the PIU , satisfactory to 
the Bank, as a condition for such Local Government to participate in the Project 
as a Pilot Local Government.  No Advance Payment or Reimbursement may be 
made  with  respect  to  any  Local  Government  which  has  not  entered  into  a 
Commitment Letter.  Each Commitment Letter shall set out, inter alia: 
 
(a) 

for 

the 

and 

planning, 

budgeting, 

procurement, 

the  Pilot  Local  Government’s  obligations  to:  (i)  deliver  the  Outputs  in 
accordance  with  the  financial  and  technical  conditions  and  the 
standards 
contract 
management  and  financial  management  set  out  in  the  Technical 
Guidelines;  (ii)  comply  with  environmental  and  social  safeguards 
technical  and  reporting  requirements  set  out  in  the  Technical 
Guidelines 
Supplemental  Technical  Guidelines 
(Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards);  (iii)  comply  with  the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  Loan  proceeds 
other  than  the  Borrower  and  the  Anti-Corruption  Action  Plan;        
(iv)  monitor  outputs,  indicators,  and  comply  with  the  reporting 
requirements  applicable  to  each  activity;  (v)  enable  the  required 
audits and the verification of the Outputs and performance conditions 
by  BPKP;  (vi)  provide  the  LG  Contribution;  and  (vi)  enable  the 
Borrower and the Bank to review the documents related to the Sub-
projects and enter the sites to review the implementation of the Sub-
projects;  and 
 

the provision that in the event that any Sub-project is not implemented in 
accordance  with  the  Technical  Guidelines  and  the  Supplemental 
Technical  Guidelines  (Environment  and  Social  Safeguards),  then 
Outputs  from  such  Sub-project  shall  not  be  eligible  for  Advance 
Payment or Reimbursement.  
.

Implementation Arrangements for Reimbursement 

Project Operations Manual.  The Borrower, through the PIU, shall: 
 
(a) 

adopt  and,  thereafter  ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in 
accordance with,  an Operations Manual, acceptable to the Bank, which 
shall  include:  (i)  the  Technical  Guidelines  and  the  Supplemental 
Technical  Guidelines  (Environment  and  Social  Safeguards)  and 
safeguards  compliance  indicators  form;  (ii)  restrict  any  Sub-project 
contract with value of $400,000 or more equivalent;  (iii) the Reference 
Unit Costs; (iv) the Eligibility Criteria for Outputs; (v) the VO Terms of 
Reference;  (vi) 
the  Verification  and  Reimbursement  Procedures, 
including  the  method  of  Sample  (which,  except  as  may  be  otherwise 

(b) 

B. 
 
1. 

11 

agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank, will include every 
Pilot Local Government and twenty percent (20%) of total contracts per 
Pilot  Province),  determination  of  Qualifying  Percentage  and  calculation 
of  Advance  Payment  and  Reimbursement;  (vii)  the  form  of  and 
requirements  for  Verification  Reports;  (viii)  the  Borrower’s  current 
annual DAK Transfer schedule; OêüP the form of Commitment Letter and 
a copy  of  each  Commitment  Letter  after  signature  by  MOF  and  the 
respective  Pilot  Local  Government;  (x)  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines 
and  the  Anti-Corruption  Action  Plan;    (xi)  the  procurement  procedures 
set  forth  in  Section  III  of  this  Schedule  2;  (xii)  reporting  requirements, 
financial  management  procedures  and  audit  procedures  as  set  forth  in 
Section  II  of  this  Schedule  2;  (xiii)  the  Performance  Indicators  agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and (xiv) the other implementation 
obligations set forth in this Schedule 2; and 

2. 

3. 

4. 

(b) 

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provisions  of  the 
Operations Manual without the prior written agreement of the Borrower 
and the Bank. 

that  each  Sub-project  shall,  at  all 

 
Sub-project Technical Guidelines.  The Borrower, through the PIU and MPW, 
times  during  Project 
shall  ensure 
implementation,  be  implemented  by  a  Pilot  Local  Government  in  accordance 
with  the  planning,  budgeting,  engineering,  procurement,  financial  management 
and social and environmental safeguards requirements as set out in the Technical 
Guidelines and the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social 
Safeguards).  In the event that any Sub-project is not implemented in accordance 
with  the  Technical  Guidelines  and  the  Supplemental  Technical  Guidelines 
(Environment and Social Safeguards), then Outputs from such Sub-project shall 
not be eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement. 

Reference Unit Costs for Outputs Produced by Sub-projects.   The Borrower 
shall ensure that MPW shall provide to the Bank and BPKP a list of Reference 
Unit Costs for Outputs produced by Sub-projects acceptable to the Borrower and 
the  Bank  for  each  Fiscal  Year  of  Project  implementation  by  no  later  than 
February 15 of such Fiscal Year, starting with February 15, 2011.  In the event 
that the Bank does not receive such acceptable list of Reference Unit Costs by 
February 15 of any Fiscal Year, then no Outputs from that Fiscal Year shall be 
eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement. 
 
Eligibility Criteria for Reimbursement of Outputs.   Outputs shall consist of 
measurable  results  produced  by  roads,  irrigation  and  water and  sanitation  Sub-
projects undertaken by Pilot Local Governments and financed by DAK Transfers 
and LG Contribution.  The requirements for Outputs financed by DAK and LG 
Contribution  to  be  eligible  for  Advance  Payment  or  Reimbursement  in  any 

12 

Fiscal  Year  shall  be  included  in  the  Operations  Manual  and  shall  at  all  times 
during Project implementation include the following, except as may be otherwise 
agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank.  

 

 

 
5. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

 
(f) 

(g) 

(a) 

The  physical  realization  of  Outputs  is  evidenced  by  construction 
completion  certificates  and  compliance  with  technical  specifications  as 
set out in the Technical Guidelines. 
 
The  Sub-projects  which  produced  the  Outputs  have  been  procured  in 
compliance with the procurement provisions set out in Section III.B of 
this Schedule 2.  
 
The  Sub-projects  which  produced  the  Outputs  are  in  compliance  with 
environmental  and  social  safeguards  set  out  in  the  Supplemental 
Technical  Guidelines  (Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards),  as 
evidenced  by  a  duly  completed  and  satisfactory  compliance  indicators 
form in the form set out in the Operations Manual. 
 
The Sub-projects which produced the Outputs were included on the list 
of Sub-projects that the Pilot Local Government submitted to BPKP for 
verification, from which list BPKP shall have selected a Sample of Sub-
projects to verify and shall have carried out verification for technical and 
financial compliance in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Section. 

The  Sub-project  was  not  for  a  contract  value  of  $400,000  or  more 
equivalent. 

The Sub-project which produced the Outputs were undertaken by a Pilot 
Local Government which has concluded a Commitment Letter. 
 
Any  Output  that  does  not  meet  the  Eligibility  Criteria  shall  not  be 
eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement. 

Output  Verification  and  Reimbursement  Procedures.    Reimbursement  of 
Outputs  (and  confirmation  of  Advance  Payment)  is  conditional  upon  the 
verification  procedures  set  out  below  having  been  followed,  except  as  may  be 
otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank. 

 
BPKP  Verification  Activities.  BPKP  shall  verify  the  timeliness  and 
accuracy of the financial and technical reports submitted, respectively, to 
MOF and MPW by Pilot Local Governments to ensure that Outputs have 
been  achieved  in  compliance  with  the  Technical  Guidelines  and  the 
Supplemental  Technical  Guidelines 
(Environmental  and  Social 
Safeguards). 

13 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

 
(e) 

BPKP shall undertake the verification process during each Fiscal Year of 
Project implementation in accordance with the VO Terms of Reference 
in all Pilot Local Governments, in each case on a representative Sample 
basis, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.    

BPKP  shall  complete  and  submit  to  the  PIU  a  Verification  Report,  for 
each  Fiscal  Year  of  Project  implementation  in  accordance  with  the  VO 
Terms of Reference, by April 30 of the subsequent Fiscal Year (or such 
other  date  as  may  be  agreed  in  writing  between  the  Borrower  and  the 
Bank).  The PIU shall submit the Verification Report to the Bank.  Each 
Verification Report shall follow the template specified in the VO Terms 
of  Reference,  shall  report  on  the  compliance  with  Output  Eligibility 
Criteria and shall propose the amount of Reimbursement for such Fiscal 
Year  determined  in  accordance  with  the  reimbursement  procedures 
meeting the requirements of sub-paragraph (d) – (k) of this paragraph 5. 
The  PIU  shall  use  such  report  as  the  sole  basis  to  request  a 
Reimbursement. 

DAK  Transfers  made  by  the  Borrower  to  Pilot  Local  Governments.  
The  Borrower  shall  annually  allocate  a  total  amount  of  DAK  funds  for 
Pilot Local Governments for each Fiscal Year of Project implementation 
in  accordance  with  the  schedule  set  out  in  the  DAK  Implementing 
Regulations,  and  shall  notify  the  Bank  of  this  amount  by  no  later  than 
March  31  in  such  Fiscal  Year,  commencing  with  March  31,  2011 
(Annual  DAK  Allocation).    MOF  shall  make  payments  of  DAK  funds 
(DAK  Transfers)  from  the  Borrower’s  budget  to  each  Pilot  Local 
Government  in  accordance  with  the  DAK  Regulations  in  each  Fiscal 
Year of Project implementation.   

Advance  Payments  against  Outputs.    The  Borrower  may  request 
withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan as an Advance Payment against 
Outputs  in  each  Fiscal  Year  of  Project  Implementation,  beginning  with 
Outputs produced in Fiscal Year 2011.  Each Advance Payment shall be 
subject to the procedures and conditions set out below, except as may be 
otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(i) 

The amount of the Advance Payment in any Fiscal Year shall not 
exceed  the  sum  of  the  Rupiah  values  of  the  first  of  the  DAK 
Transfers  made  by  MOF  to  each  Pilot  Local  Government  by 
March  31  in  such  Fiscal  Year  as  such  transfers  are  verified  by 
BPKP,  provided  however  that  in  no  event  shall  the  Advance 
Payment  exceed  thirty  percent  (30%)  of  the  Annual  DAK 
Allocation for that Fiscal Year.   

14 

(ii) 

The  Advance  Payment  in  any  given  Fiscal  Year  may  be  made 
prior to the verification of Outputs; provided, however that it is 
subject  to  set-off,  as  set  out  in  sub-paragraph  (g)  of  this 
paragraph, following the receipt by the Bank of the Verification 
Report for Outputs for that Fiscal Year to ensure that proceeds of 
the  Loan  are  not  disbursed  in  excess  of  the  Value  of  Total 
Reimbursement  for  all  Pilot  Local  Governments  for  that  Fiscal 
Year.  

(f) 

Reimbursement  of  Verified  Outputs.    The  Borrower  may  request 
withdrawal  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as  a  Reimbursement  against 
Outputs  in  each  Fiscal  Year  of  Project  implementation,  beginning  with 
Outputs  produced  in  Fiscal  Year  2011.    Each  Reimbursement  shall  be 
subject to the procedures and conditions set out below, except as may be 
otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

BPKP shall verify that each Pilot Local Government has entered 
into a Commitment Letter. 
 
BPKP shall verify that the Reference Unit Costs were provided 
by February 15 in the subject Fiscal Year. 
 
BPKP  shall  list  all  Outputs  reported  by  each  Pilot  Local 
Government by December 31 of the subject Fiscal Year. 
 
BPKP  shall  calculate  the  Value  of  Potential  Reimbursement 
for  each  Pilot  Local  Government  by  multiplying  the  volume  of 
Outputs  produced  by  Sub-projects  undertaken  by  Pilot  Local 
Government by their Reference Unit Costs. 
 
BPKP  shall  verify  a  Sample  of  the  Sub-projects  in  each  Pilot 
Local  Government  in  accordance  with  the  VO  Terms  of 
Reference to determine compliance with the Eligibility Criteria.  
Based  on  the  Outputs  in  the  Sample  for  each  Pilot  Local 
Government  that  meet  the  Eligibility  Criteria,  BPKP  shall 
calculate  the  Qualifying  Percentage  for  that  Pilot  Local 
Government for that Fiscal Year. 

BPKP shall calculate the Value of Qualifying Reimbursement 
for  each  Pilot  Local  Government  for  that  Fiscal  Year  by 
multiplying the Qualifying Percentage by the Value of Potential 
Reimbursement.  
 

 

15 

(vii)  BPKP shall calculate the Value of Total Reimbursement  that 
may be  made by the Bank to the Borrower for that Fiscal Year 
which  shall  be 
the  Value  of  Qualifying 
Reimbursement for all Pilot Local Governments.   
 

the  sum  of 

(ix) 

(viii)  BPKP shall calculate the Value of Final Reimbursement  that 
may be made by the Bank to the Borrower for that Fiscal Year, 
by  subtracting  the  Advance  Payment  made  in  that  Fiscal  Year 
from the Value of Total Reimbursement. 
 
BPKP  shall  calculate  the  LG  Reimbursement  for  each  Pilot 
Local  Government  by  multiplying  the  Value  of  Qualifying  
Reimbursement  for  that  Pilot  Local  Government  for  that  Fiscal 
Year  by  ten  percent  (10%);  it  being  understood  that  this 
percentage  may,  by  prior  written  agreement  between  the 
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  be  revised  for  the  purposes  of 
calculating  the  LG  Reimbursement.      Upon  receipt  by  the 
Borrower of Reimbursement from the Bank in any Fiscal Year, 
the  MOF  shall  transfer  to  each  Pilot  Local  Government  its 
respective LG Reimbursement. 
 
Notwithstanding 
of  Total 
Reimbursement made by the Bank to the Borrower in any Fiscal 
Year shall in no event exceed the Annual DAK Allocation made 
by the Borrower for such Fiscal Year plus 10% (attributable to a 
portion of the LG Contribution). 
 

the  Value 

foregoing, 

the 

(x) 

Set-Off.    In  the  event  that  the  amount  of  the  Advance  Payment  in  any 
Fiscal Year exceeded the amount eligible for reimbursement by the Bank 
(the Value of Total Reimbursement) at the end of the Fiscal Year as set 
out in the Verification Report for that Fiscal Year, then the amount of the 
Advance Payment will be reduced in the subsequent Fiscal Year by the 
amount  of  overpayment  in  that  Fiscal  Year  (Advance  Payment  minus 
Value  of  Total  Reimbursement).   The  Bank  may,  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower,  reduce  the  amount  of  the  Advance  Payment,  or  decline  to 
provide  any  Advance  Payment,  for  any  subsequent  year  of  Project 
implementation  in  the  event  that  this  clause  was  invoked  in  any  Fiscal 
Year. 

  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing 
Review  of  Verification  Reports. 
provisions of this paragraph 5, the Bank retains the right to review any 
Verification  Report  and,  based  on  such  review,  to  not  disburse,  or  to 
disburse a lesser amount of the proceeds of the Loan for, any particular 
requested Advance Payment or Reimbursement. 

(g) 

 
(h) 

16 

(i) 

 
(j) 

 
(k) 

Without limiting the provisions of Article VII of the General Conditions, 
if the  Bank  shall  have  determined  at any  time  that  any  Outputs  did  not 
comply  with  the  Technical  Guidelines  or  the  Supplemental  Guidelines 
(Environmental and Social Safeguards) or that a Pilot Local Government 
has  failed  to  deliver  all  the  Outputs  of  a  Sub-project,  the  Bank  may  at 
that time: (A) in any year of Project implementation except the last year, 
offset  future  Advance  Payments  and/or  Reimbursements  by  the  amount 
equal to the amount of Loan proceeds disbursed to finance Outputs not 
delivered by such Pilot Local Government; or (B) obtain a refund to the 
Bank  from  the  Borrower  of  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  Loan 
proceeds disbursed to finance Outputs not delivered by such Pilot Local 
Government.    Refunds to the  Bank  pursuant to  sub-paragraph (B)  shall 
be  credited  to  the  Loan  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal  or  for 
cancellation  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.  

The  Verification  Report  shall  provide  reasonable  details  satisfactory  to 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  of  any  cases  of  corrupt  practice,  collusive 
practice, fraudulent practice, coercive practice or obstructive practice (in 
each case as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) which come to 
BPKP’s  attention in  the  carrying  out  of  the  activities  set  out in the  VO 
Terms of Reference. 

Provision  of  TA  Funds.    Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of 
this paragraph 5:  
 
(i)  

if  either  of  the  PIU  or  BPKP  has  not  provided  to  the  Bank  the 
Work  Plan  and  documentation  of  TA  Funds  for  the  period       
July 1 – December 31, 2010 in accordance with paragraph 2(a) 
or  (b),  respectively,  of  Section  I.C  of  this  Schedule,  then  the 
Bank  will  not  make  any  Advance  Payment  or  Reimbursement 
for Outputs produced in Fiscal Year 2011; and  

 
(ii)  

for each Fiscal Year beginning with Fiscal Year 2011, if either of 
the  PIU  or  BPKP  has  not  provided  the  Work  Plan  and 
documentation of TA Funds or BPKP budget in accordance with 
paragraph  3(a)  or  (b),  respectively,  of  Section  I.C  of  this 
Schedule, then the Bank will not make any Advance Payment or 
Reimbursement for Outputs produced in such Fiscal Year. 

 

17 

C. 

1. 

Implementation Arrangements for Part 2 and Part 3 of the Project 
 
(a) 

Except as may be otherwise agreed in writing between the Borrower and 
the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall  make  available  TA  Funds  in  an  amount 
equal  to  not  less  than  $8,500,000  equivalent  over  the  period  of  Project 
implementation  on  the  schedule  agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  the 
Bank in accordance with this paragraph for the purpose of carrying out 
the activities under Part 2 of the Project.   

2. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(b) 

 
(a) 

3. 

The TA Funds referred to in the foregoing sub-paragraph (a) exclude the 
capacity building requirements of BPKP.  BPKP shall provide the budget 
and  staffing  requirement  for  its  own  capacity  activities  under  Part  3  of 
the Project, which shall be as set out in the VO Terms of Reference and 
agreed between BPKP and MOF and between BPKP and the Bank. 
 
The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  submit  to  the  Bank  by  the  date 
which is no later than 30 days after the Effectiveness Date, a Work Plan, 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, for Project-related activities to 
be  undertaken  by  MOF  (Project  management  and  support  to  Local 
Governments),  and MPW (evaluation  and  verification  support  activities 
and support to Local Governments) for the period July 1 – December 31, 
2010.  Such plan shall include the needs assessment, work plan, staffing 
and  procurement  plan  and terms  of  reference  and TA  Funds  budget,  as 
evidenced by revised DIPA for each such agency.   
 
In  accordance  with  the  VO  Terms  of  Reference,  BPKP  shall  submit  to 
the  Bank,  by  the  date  which  is  no  later  than  30  days  after  the 
Effectiveness  Date,  a  Work  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for 
verification  activities,  including  technical  and  environmental  and  social 
safeguards  capacity,  for  the  period July  1  –  December  31,  2010.    Such 
plan shall include the needs assessment, work plan, staffing, procurement 
plan and BPKP budget. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  submit  to  the  Bank,  by  no  later 
than October 31 of each Fiscal Year (beginning with October 31, 2010), 
a Work  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  for  Project-
related  activities  to  be  undertaken  by  MOF  (Project  management  and 
support to Local Governments), and MPW (verification support activities 
and support to Local Governments) for the upcoming Fiscal Year.  Such 
plan  shall  include  the  needs  assessment,  work  plan,  staffing  and 
procurement  plan  and  terms  of  reference  and  TA  Funds  budget,  as 
evidenced by the SAPSK budget document, for each such agency.  The 
PIU  shall  also,  at  the  request  of  the  Bank,  provide  evidence  of  the  TA 
Funds of each such agency in the DIPA during the subject Fiscal Year. 

18 

(b) 

In  accordance  with  the  VO  Terms  of  Reference,  BPKP  shall  submit  to 
the  Bank,  by  no  later  than  October  31  of  each  Fiscal  Year  (beginning 
with  October  31,  2010),  a  Work  Plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for 
verification  activities,  including  technical  and  environmental  and  social 
safeguards  capacity,  for  the  upcoming  Fiscal  Year.    Such  plan  shall 
include the needs assessment, work plan, staffing, procurement plan and 
BPKP budget.  

 
Web-Based Monitoring and Reporting System.  In carrying out Part 2.2 of the 
Project,  the  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  develop  the  Web-Based 
Monitoring  and  Reporting  System  under 
terms  of  reference  and  with 
specifications acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank to increase transparency 
of  and  access  to  information  regarding  allocation  and  transfer  of  DAK  by  the 
Borrower  and  contribution  to,  disbursement  of  and  outputs  from  DAK  by  the 
Local Governments, including providing public access to information. 

Environmental and Social Safeguards 
 
The  Borrower  shall  take  all  actions  necessary  to  ensure  that  each  Pilot  Local 
Government  shall  undertake  Sub-projects in  accordance  with  the  Supplemental 
Technical  Guidelines  (Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards)  setting  out 
requirements for Sub-projects in Pilot Local Governments, including:  
 
(a)  

avoiding  and,  if  it  is  unavoidable,  limiting  land  acquisition  and 
resettlement;  

4. 

 
D. 

1. 

 
(b)  

 
(c)  

setting  forth  the  measures  and  actions  to  be  taken  during  the 
implementation  of  the  Project  for  the  provision  of  compensation, 
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, including 
the requirement to submit a land acquisition and resettlement action plan 
(LARAP)  and/or  the  Indigenous  Peoples  Plan  (IPP),  satisfactory  to  the 
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  to  the  local  planning  agency  (BAPPEDA)  for 
approval prior to submission of the Sub-project to be proposed for DAK 
financing  during the planning and programming stage;  

setting  forth  the  measures  and  actions  to  be  taken  during  the 
implementation  of  the  Project  for:  (i)  the  informed  involvement  of 
Indigenous Peoples or Isolated Vulnerable Peoples, through a process of 
free, prior and informed participation, in the design and implementation 
of  each  Sub-project  to  be,  or  being,  carried  out  in  a  location  in  which 
such  people  reside  or  use  for  their  livelihood;  and  (ii)  designing  and 
implementing  measures  to  provide  benefits  which  are  socially  and 
culturally  acceptable  to  them,  and  reduce,  mitigate  and  offset  adverse 
impacts of Sub-projects;   

19 

 

(d)  

 
(e) 

 
(f)  

 

setting  forth  the  measures  and  actions  to  be  taken  during  the 
implementation  of  the  project  for:  (i)  identifying  potential  adverse 
environmental  and  social  impacts  and  safeguard  instruments  required 
through  an  environmental screening  process and social  assessment;  and 
(ii)  designing  environmental  management  and  monitoring  measures  to 
prevent,  minimize,  or  mitigate  potential  adverse  environmental  and 
social impacts and to enhance positive impacts;  

setting  forth  the  negative  list  of  types  of  Sub-projects  the  Outputs  of 
which shall not be eligible for Advance Payment or Reimbursement out 
of  the  Proceeds  of  the  Loan,  including,  without  limitation,  each  as 
defined  in  the  Supplemental  Guidelines  (Environmental  and  Social 
Safeguards): 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 
(v) 

(vi) 

Sub-projects  using  or  producing  ozone-depleting  substances, 
pesticides, tobacco or tobacco products; 
transporting 
Sub-projects  using  or  producing,  storing  or 
hazardous materials (toxic, corrosive or explosive) or generating 
”B3“ (hazardous) wastes; 
Sub-projects located in a Protected Area or that may change the 
purpose and/or designation of a Protected Area; 
Sub-projects involving conversion of critical natural habitat; 
Sub-projects  that  would  degrade  or  damage  cultural  property, 
including not only physical artifacts and structures but also sites 
considered sacred or otherwise having spiritual importance; or 
Sub-projects 
swamp 
continuation of existing swamp reclamation network; and 

reclamation  network  or 

for  new 

additional  procedures  for  monitoring,  reporting  and  evaluation  of 
environmental  management  and  social  safeguard  plans,  and  monitoring 
measures 
to  prevent,  minimize,  or  mitigate  potential  adverse 
environmental  and  social  impacts,  as  specified  in  the  Supplemental 
Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards). 

The  Supplemental  Guidelines  (Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards) 
may be amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of 
the Bank and the Borrower. 

E. 

 
Anti-Corruption 
 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Action Plan. 
 

20 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08  of  the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of    Performance  Indicators 
agreed  with  the  Bank.    Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  (1) 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days  after  the  end  of  the  period  covered  by  such  report.    Project  Reports  shall 
include  reporting  required  by  the  Technical  Guidelines  (Environmental  and 
Social Safeguards). 

The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  prepare,  under  terms  of  reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by no later than December 31, 
2012, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Section II.A, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said  report  and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of 
the  Project  Report  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  
Each  audit  of  the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  (1)  fiscal 
year  of  the  Borrower.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 

21 

Section III. 

Procurement

General 

A. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
B. 

 
1. 

 
D. 

1. 

2. 

Goods,  Works  and  Services  other  than  Consultants’  Services.      All  goods, 
works and services other than consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I (excluding paragraph 1.16) 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Services  other 
than Consultants’ Services 

Performance-Based  Procurement.  Contracts  for  goods,  works  and  services 
other  than  consultants’  services  shall  be  awarded  in accordance  with  paragraph 
3.14  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  using  competitive  procurement  methods 
acceptable to the Bank.. 

C. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

Improvement of Procurement Systems by Pilot Local Governments 

The  Borrower, through  the  PIU,  shall  ensure  that  each  Pilot  Local  Government 
shall undertake procurement for Sub-projects through its respective procurement 
services unit (ULP).  The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no later than December 
31, 2011, a decree for establishing the ULP has been issued by each Participating 
Local  Government  Dinas  head;  (b)  by  no  later  than  December  31,  2012,  each 
such  ULP  has  been  properly  staffed  and  budgeted;  and  (c)  by  no  later  than 
December  31,  2012,  all  procurement  using  DAK  funds  shall  be  carried  out  in 
each Participating Local Government by its respective ULP.    
 
The  Borrower, through  the  PIU,  shall  ensure  that  each  Pilot  Local  Government 
shall  develop  an  annual  procurement  plan  stating  at  least  the  following 
information:  contract  packages  and  amount,  procurement  methods,  and 
procurement  schedule  prior  to  commencing  any  procurement  process.  The 
Borrower shall have adopted a template for such procurement plan acceptable to 
the Borrower and the Bank by December 31, 2011. 

22 

3. 

A. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

B. 
 
1. 

The Borrower, through the PIU, shall ensure that each of the procurement plans 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Section D, together with documents pertaining 
to the  procurement  and  contracting  process,  shall be retained in the  Pilot  Local 
Government’s  files  and  shall  be  subject  to  review  by  BPKP  as  the  VO,  and  a 
copy of which, shall, at the request of the Bank, be provided to the Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

(1)  Payments for Outputs 
of Sub-projects under 
Part 1 of the Project 

 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 

 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

220,000,000 

the  Value  of  Total 

100%  of 
Reimbursement 
 

220,000,000 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee.  

23 

2. 

3. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for any Outputs produced prior to January 1, 2011. 

For each Fiscal Year of Project implementation, the Borrower agrees that it shall 
not submit any application for withdrawal for that Fiscal Year unless: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Bank  has  received  a  Verification  Report  for  that  Fiscal  Year  in 
accordance with the VO Terms of Reference, acceptable to the Borrower 
and the Bank;  

the Borrower has made the TA Funds for such Fiscal Year available in 
accordance  with  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  Section  I.C  of  this  Schedule  2; 
and 

BPKP remains the VO for that Fiscal Year, the VO Terms of Reference 
remain in effect as between BPKP and MOF, and BPKP and the Bank, 
respectively,  and  the  requirements  stipulated  in  Section  I.A.2(c)  of  this 
Schedule 2 are fulfilled as of the date of the withdrawal request. 

4. 

The Closing Date is June 30, 2014.   

24 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

 
1. 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 

October 1, 2019 
April 1, 2020 
October 1, 2020 
April 1, 2021 
October 1, 2021 
April 1, 2022 
October 1, 2022 
April 1, 2023 
October 1, 2023 
April 1, 2024 
October 1, 2024 
April 1, 2025 
October 1, 2025 
April 1, 2026 
October 1, 2026 
April 1, 2027 
October 1, 2027 
April 1, 2028 
October 1, 2028 
April 1, 2029 
October 1, 2029 
April 1, 2030 
October 1, 2030 
April 1, 2031 
October 1, 2031 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 
3.93 

25 

April 1, 2032 
October 1, 2032 
April 1, 2033 
October 1, 2033 
April 1, 2034 
October 1, 2034 

4.02 
4.12 
4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

2.  

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

(b) 

 

26 

4. 

 
5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

27 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.   
 
1. 

Definitions  

“Advance Payment” means the amount of the proceeds of the Loan that may be 
withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  Category  1  of  the  table  in  Section  IV.A  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  against  expected  Outputs  for  a  particular  Fiscal 
Year  during  Project  implementation,  calculated  in  accordance  with  paragraph 
5(e) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement (as some of these expressions 
are defined hereafter). 

“Annual DAK Allocation” means the allocation made in the Borrower’s national 
budget  (APBN)  in  each  Fiscal  Year  of  Project  implementation  for  DAK 
Transfers to Pilot Local Governments (as some of these expressions are defined 
hereafter). 

“Anti-Corruption  Action  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  plan,  included  in  the 
Operations  Manual,  designed  to  integrate  the  contents  of  the  Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines and to give effect thereto, and giving details of a program of actions, 
measures and policies designed to reduce or eliminate fraud and corruption in all 
its  forms  under  the  Project,  including:  enhanced  information  disclosure 
provisions; expansion and enhancement of Web-Based Monitoring and Reporting 
System for allocation and transfer of DAK by the Borrower and contribution to, 
disbursement of and outputs from DAK by the Local Governments; civil society 
oversight provisions focused on awareness and possibilities for use of the Web-
Based  Reporting  System;  and  a  complaint  handling  mechanism,  focused  on 
establishment  and  integration  of  a  complaints  handling  system  into  the  Web-
Based Reporting System; and an appropriate regime of sanctions and remedies, 
as  applicable  to  each  Sub-project,  as  the  Anti-Corruption  Action  Plan  may  be 
updated from time to time by  written agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank (as some of these expressions are defined hereafter). 

 “Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 

“APBN” means Anggaran Pendapatan Belanja Negara, the Borrower’s national 
budget  in  any  given  Fiscal  Year  (as  some  of  these  expressions  are  defined 
hereafter). 

“BAPPENAS”  means  Badan  Perencanaan  Pembangunan  Nasional,
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 

the 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 

28 

the 
“BPKP”  means  Badan  Pengawasan  Keuangan  dan  Pembangunan, 
Borrower’s  Financial  and  Development  Supervisory  Board,  or  any  successor 
thereto as may be agreed in writing between the Borrower and the Bank for the 
purposes of the Project. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
“Circular”  means  an  instruction  to  be  issued  by  the  Minister  of  Public  Works 
with respect to the Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environment and Social 
Safeguards). 

“Commitment  Letter”  means  each  letter  to  be  submitted  by  each  Pilot  Local 
Government  to  the  PIU  setting  forth  the  obligations  in  the  implementation  of 
Sub-projects in accordance with paragraph 4 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  

“DAK”  means  Dana  Alokasi  Khusus, or central  government’s  specific  purpose 
grants,  the  Borrower’s  system  of  inter-governmental  transfers  to  Pilot  Local 
Governments to fund investment expenditures considered to be national priorities 
of the Borrower as listed in the Technical Guidelines. 

“DAK Implementing Regulations” means, collectively, the regulations pursuant 
to  which  the  DAK  is  budged,  allocated  and  implemented  pursuant  to:                
(a)  Government  Regulation  No.  55/2005  on  Balance  Funds,  pursuant  to  which 
the Ministry of Finance must provide the DAK allocation for a given Fiscal Year 
within two (2) weeks of the issuance of the APBN and pursuant to which MPW 
must  issue  technical  guidelines  to  govern  implementation  of  DAK  in  the 
infrastructure  sector;  (b)  PMK  21/PMK.07/2009  on  Implementation  and 
Accountability  of  Transfer  to  Regions  Fund;  (c)  the  Technical  Guidelines;  and 
(d) the Supplemental Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards), as such 
regulations may be supplemented or amended from time to time. 

“DAK Transfer” means a transfer by the Borrower of DAK funds to a Pilot Local 
Government  for  infrastructure  in  accordance  with  the  DAK  Implementing 
Regulations, including  the schedule and  number  of  transfers to  be  made  in  any 
Fiscal Year; and “DAK Transfers” means more than one DAK Transfer. 

“Dinas”  means  each  Local  Government  (as  defined  hereafter)  public  works 
department. 

“DIPA”  means  Daftar  Isian  Pelaksanaan  Anggaran, a government  budget 
document. 

7. 

 
8. 

9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 

29 

“Displaced  Person”    means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and 
protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of  such  person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons.   

“Eligibility  Criteria”  means  the  criteria  for  determining  Outputs  set  out  in 
paragraph 4 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  1,  2005  (as  amended 
through February 12, 2008). 

“Indigenous People or Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in 
Indonesia that have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible 
to being disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any 
part thereof. 

“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division of the Borrower. 

“Kota” means an urban district, an administrative division of the Borrower. 

“LG  Contribution”  means  the  funds  required  to  be  contributed  by  a  Local 
Government  toward  activities  for  which  a  Local  Government  uses  DAK 
Transfers received by it from the Borrower. 

“LG Reimbursement” means the portion of a Reimbursement made by the Bank 
to  the  Borrower  which  is  attributable  to  a  Pilot  Local  Government  and  which 
shall  be  transferred  by  MOF  to  the  Pilot  Local  Government  in  as  set  out  in 
paragraph 5(f)(ix) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Local  Government”  or  “LG”  means  a  government  of  a  Kabupaten,  Kota  or 
Province. 

“Ministry  of  Finance”  and  “MOF”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Finance, 
and any successor thereto. 

16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 
 
22. 
 
23. 

 
24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 

 

30 

“Ministry  of  Home  Affairs”  and  “MOHA"  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of 
Home Affairs and any successor thereto. 

“Ministry of Public Works” and “MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of 
the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 

“Operations Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, through 
MOF,  pursuant  to  Section  5.01(i)  of  this  Agreement  and  to  be  used  by  the 
Borrower in implementing the Project, meeting the requirements of paragraph 1 
of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such expression includes all 
schedules  and  annexes  to  said  manual;  as  such  Operations  Manual  may  be 
amended  or  updated  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the 
Bank and the Borrower. 

“Output”  means  any  of  the  units  referred  to  in  that  constitute  a  Sub-project      
(e.g.,  kilometers  or  other  units  of  measurement)  meeting  the  Eligibility  Criteria 
and meeting the requirements to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with this Agreement and verified by BPKP, as set forth in paragraphs 
2 – 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and “Outputs” means more 
than one Output. 

“Part” means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 

“Performance  Indicators”  means  the  performance  indicators  for  the  Project 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank through letter dated as of the date of 
this  Agreement,  as  such  indicators  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the 
written agreement of the Borrower and the Bank. 

“Pilot Local Government” means the government of each Pilot Province and of 
each  Kabupaten  and  Kota  in  a  Pilot  Province  which  has  entered  into  a 
Commitment Letter, and which shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a Sub-
project in accordance with this Agreement and the Technical Guidelines and the 
Supplemental Technical Guidelines (Environmental and Social Safeguards), and 
“Pilot Local Governments” means more than one Pilot Local Government. 

“Pilot  Province”  means  each  of  the  five  Provinces  in  the  Project:    Jambi,  East 
Java, Central Kalimantan, West Sulawesi and North Maluku, as such list of Pilot 
Provinces may be changed from time to time by prior written agreement of the 
Borrower and the Bank, it being understood that any such change must be agreed 
prior to January  1 in any Fiscal  Year  in  order  for  such  change  to  be  applied to 
such Fiscal Year and “Pilot Provinces” means more than one Pilot Province. 

27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 
31. 
 
32. 

 
33. 

 
34. 

 

31 

35. 

 
36. 

37. 

38. 

 
39. 

 
40. 

 
41. 

42. 

“PIU”  means  the  central-level  Project  management  unit  established  in  the 
Directorate General of Fiscal Balance of MOF and operating in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“PMK”  means  a  Peraturan  Menteri  Keuangan, a regulation  issued  by  the 
Ministry of Finance. 
 
“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October, 2006. 

“Protected Areas” means those areas identified in the Minister of the State for the 
Environment  Decree  Number  KEP-11/MENLH/2006,  entitled  “Concerning  the 
Types of Businesses Activities Required to Complete an Environmental Impact 
Assessment  and 
forest  protection  areas;  marine/freshwater 
conservation areas; nature tourism parks; areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs; 
coastal  mangrove  areas;  national  parks;  coastal  edges;  forest  parks;  cultural 
reserves;  areas  surrounding  springs;  scientific  research  areas;  and  nature 
conservation areas. 

including: 

 “Province”  means  an  administrative  sub-division  of the  Borrower’s  territory  at 
the first level below the national level. 

“Qualifying Percentage” means, for each Pilot Local Government in each Fiscal 
Year,  the  percentage  of  compliance  with  the  Eligibility  Criteria  for  Outputs 
produced  by  Sub-projects  undertaken  by  that  Pilot  Local  Government  and 
verified on a Sample basis by BPKP in accordance with paragraph 5 of Section 
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Reference Unit Cost” means the cost of goods, works, non-consultant services 
and  consultant  services  required  to  produce  units  of  Outputs,  acceptable  to  the 
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  to  be  notified  by  MPW  to  the  Bank  and  to  BPKP  by 
February 15 of each Fiscal Year of Project Implementation and included in the 
Operations Manual. 

 “Reimbursement”  means  an  amount  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  that  may  be 
withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  Category  1  of  the  table  in  Section  IV.A  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  against  verified  Outputs  in  accordance  with  this 
Agreement,  which  shall  not  exceed  in  any  Fiscal  Year  the  Value  of  Total 
Reimbursement for that Fiscal Year. 

43. 

 “Rupiah” and “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower. 

32 

44. 

45. 

46. 

 
47. 

 
48. 

 
49. 

“Sample”  means  the  method,  to  be  set  out  in  the  VO  Terms  of  Reference  and 
agreed  by  the  Bank,  by  which  BPKP  shall  review  an  agreed  sub-set  of  Pilot 
Local  Government’s  Sub-projects  and  Outputs  produced  using  the  proceeds  of 
DAK Transfers from the Borrower to the Pilot Local Government and from the 
Pilot Local Government’s LG Contribution. 

“SAPSK”  means  Satuan  Anggaran  Per  Satuan  Kerja,
the  government’s 
Borrower’s budget approval document at the work unit level in each ministry of 
the Borrower’s government. 

“Sub-project”  means  a  specific  infrastructure  project/contract  (paket  pekerjaan) 
undertaken by a Pilot Local Government or a designee thereof and meeting the 
the  Technical  Guidelines  and  Supplemental  Technical 
requirements  of 
Guidelines  (Environment  and  Social  Safeguards),  which  is  financed  by  DAK 
Transfers and/or LG Contribution, and “Sub-projects” means more than one Sub-
project. 

“Supplemental  Technical  Guidelines  (Environment  and  Social  Safeguards)” 
means  the  supplement  to  the  Technical  Guidelines,  acceptable  to  the  Borrower 
and  the  Bank,  meeting  the  requirements  of  Section  I.D  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement,  to  be  issued  by  MPW,  and  binding  on  all  Pilot  Local  Governments, 
setting out requirements for Sub-projects in Pilot Local Governments.  

“TA Funds” means the budget to be provided by the Borrower for carrying out 
Part  2  of  the  Project,  as  such  TA  Funds  may  be  agreed  by  the  Bank  and  the 
Borrower, as applicable, for each Fiscal Year in accordance with Section I.C of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

including 

“Technical Guidelines” means the guidelines, issued by MPW and binding on all 
Local  Governments, 
the  Supplemental  Technical  Guidelines 
(Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards)  on  the  implementation  of  the  DAK  for 
each  infrastructure  subsector  (Ministerial  Decree  No.  42/PRT/M/2007),  and 
subsequent letters of instruction (surat edaran) which include the list of eligible 
types  of  Sub-projects  (mainly  maintenance,  rehabilitation  and  upgrading  or 
improving  existing 
implementation 
requirements, reporting, monitoring and evaluation requirements, and procedures 
and  requirements  for  environmental  and  social  safeguards  management  during 
the  planning, 
including 
monitoring,  reporting  and  evaluation,  as  such  guidelines  may  be  further 
amended, updated or supplemented from time to time and applied to the Project 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank and the Borrower. 
 

implementation  and  operation  of  Sub-projects, 

infrastructure),  technical  requirements, 

33 

50. 
 
51. 

 
52. 

 
53. 

 
54. 

 
55. 

 
56. 

 
57. 

58. 

“ULP” means a Unit Layanan Pengadaan procurement services unit. 

“Value of Final Reimbursement” means, for each Fiscal Year, the Value of Total 
Reimbursement minus the Advance Payment, which shall not exceed the Annual 
DAK Allocation plus ten percent (10%). 

 “Value of Potential Reimbursement” means, for each Pilot Local Government in 
each  Fiscal  Year,  the  volume  of  Outputs  by  that  Pilot  Local  Government, 
multiplied by their Reference Unit Costs. 

“Value of Qualifying Reimbursement” means, for each Pilot Local Government 
in  each  Fiscal  Year,  the  Value  of  Potential  Reimbursement    multiplied  by  the 
Qualifying Percentage. 

“Value  of  Total  Reimbursement”  means,  for  each  Fiscal  Year,  the  sum  of  the 
Value of Qualifying Reimbursement for all Pilot Local Governments (which may 
also be calculated as the total of (i) the Advance Payment and (ii) the Value of 
Final Reimbursement for all Pilot Local Governments, the Reimbursement to be 
made by the Bank to the Borrower). 

“Verification  Arrangement”  means  the  arrangement  to  be  entered  into  between 
the Bank and BPKP pursuant to paragraph 2(b) of Section I.A of this Agreement 
and  setting  out  the  arrangements  pursuant  to  which  BPKP  will  undertake  the 
activities of the VO Terms of Reference. 

“Verification  and  Reimbursement  Procedures”  means,  collectively, 
the 
procedures for verification of Outputs, Sample, determination of the Qualifying 
Percentage  for  any  given  Project  period,  and  the  reporting  requirements  of  the 
VO as set out in the VO Terms of Reference and meeting the requirements set 
out in paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Audit of Outputs Terms of Reference” or “AO Terms of Reference” means the 
terms of reference document of BPKP setting out the requirements for technical 
(engineering), procurement, financial management and environmental and social 
safeguards  specialists  to  perform  the  output  verification  function  described  in 
paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on the basis of the 
Sample,  acceptable  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  as  such  document  may  be 
updated or amended from  time to time with the prior written agreement of the:   
(i) Borrower and BPKP; and (ii) the Bank and BPKP. 
 
“Verifier of Outputs” or “VO” means BKPK as staffed to meet the requirements 
set out in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including 
the  engagement  of  technical  (engineering),  procurement,  financial  management 

34 

59. 

 
60. 

 
61. 

2. 

 

and  environmental  and  social  safeguards  experts  in  accordance  with  the  VO 
Terms of Reference. 
“Verification  Report”  means  a  verification  report  for  Fiscal  Year  of  Project 
Implementation, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, issued by the VO in 
accordance  with  the  Verification  Procedures,  and  meeting  the  requirements  of 
paragraph 5 of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including certifying 
the Qualifying Percentage and the proposed amount of Reimbursement. 

“Web-Based  Monitoring  and  Reporting  System”  means  the  system  to  be 
established by the Borrower under Part 2 of the Project, through upgrading and 
enhancing the existing web-based transaction monitoring system of the Ministry 
of Finance, to increase transparency and effectiveness of DAK, including as set 
out in the Anti-Corruption Action Plan. 

“Work  Plan”  means:  (i)  the  consolidated  annual  work  plans  of  each  of  MOF, 
BAPPENAS and MPW; and (ii) the work plan of BPKP for supplementing and 
strengthening  technical,  financial  management,  procurement  and  environmental 
and social safeguards capacity required for Project implementation, in each case 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 

Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 

 

“Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank  

(l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Bank has declared the Borrower (other 
... 
than  the  Member  Country)  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  ineligible  to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole 
or in part by the Bank or the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Bank or 
the  Bank  that  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  engaged  in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of 
the proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Bank.” 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read 

(a) 
as follows: 

35 

“‘Conversion  Date’  means,  in  respect  of  a  Conversion,  the  Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and  accepted  by  the  Bank,  on  which  the  Conversion  enters  into  effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 

 

