CONFORMED COPY 

 
LOAN NUMBER 8105-ID 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
(Eighth Development Policy Loan) 
 
 
between 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
 
and 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 

AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

Dated December 2, 2011 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

(“Borrower”) 

INTERNATIONAL 

AGREEMENT  dated,  December  2,  2011,  entered  into  between  REPUBLIC     
INDONESIA 

OF 
FOR 
and 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis,  inter  alia,  of  (a)  the  actions 
which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in 
Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the  Borrower’s  maintenance  of  an 
adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.    The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 

BANK 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 

in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-

 

 

 

2 

payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by 
the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation  and  Consultation),  the  Borrower  shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE III — PROGRAM  

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  

To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of 
either  party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 

prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in 

(b) 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request; and 

without limitation  upon the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b)  of  this 
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of  any  situation 
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially  reversing  the  objectives  of  the 
Program  or  any  action  taken  under  the  Program  including  any  action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.. 

 
(c) 

 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists of the  following:    A  situation  has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  The Bank 
is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out  the 
Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower’s  macroeconomic  policy 
framework. 

 
5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 

 

Cable address:   
 
 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
Jakarta   

 

 
 

Facsimile: 

 

 

(21) 381 2859 

 

 

 

 

4 

 
 
 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
AGREED  at  Jakarta,  Republic  of  Indonesia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

Facsimile: 

Telex:   

 

 

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By: /s/ Shubham Chaudhuri 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

written. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

5 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 

Actions Taken Under the Program 

Section I. 
 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 

The  Borrower,  through  the  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Economic  Affairs,  has 
developed  standard  operating  procedures  within  the  Indonesia  National  Single 
Window  for  regular  private  sector  consultative  meetings  on  Indonesia  National 
Single Window implementation issues, and has started holding the meetings. 
 
The  Borrower,  through  the  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Economic  Affairs,  has 
developed  work  plans  for  the  phased  implementation  of  a  Single  Sign  On 
procedure  for  two  key  agencies  of  Indonesia  National  Single  Window:  BPOM 
and the Directorate General of Customs. 
 
The  Borrower,  through  the  Ministry  of  Trade,  has  issued  a  Ministerial  Decree 
(No.  709/M-DAG/KEP/9/2011)  establishing  a  team  to  formulate  Non-Tariff 
Measures under the Ministry of Trade, with clear standard operating procedures 
for the issuance of Non-Tariff Measures. 
 
The Borrower has issued a Presidential Regulation (No. 32/2011), a Ministerial 
Regulation  (No.  PER-06/M.EKON/08/2011)  and  two  Ministerial  Decrees  (No. 
KEP-35//M.EKON/08/2011  and  No.  KEP-36//M.EKON/08/2011),  that  put  in 
place institutional mechanisms to enhance Connectivity in Indonesia. 
 
The  Borrower  has  based  Ministry/Agency  Budget  and  Work  Plans  (RKA-K/L) 
for 2012 on Government Regulation (No. 90/2010) as evidenced by:  

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 
separate  treatment  of  baselines  and  new  initiatives  in  the  budget 
submission document following new guidelines on RKA-K/L; 
 
a  manual  for  line  ministries  on    formulation  of  new  initiatives,  which 
enables a review of rationale and cost information; and 
 
consistency  between  Government  Work  Plan  (RKP)  and  RKA-K/L 
regarding performance and budget information. 

 
The  Borrower,  through  the  LKPP,  has  completed  the  strategy  and  policy  for 
human  resources  development  for  the  procurement  function  in  government 
agencies. 
 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 

6 

The  Borrower  has  issued  a  Presidential  Instruction  (No.4/2011)  on  government 
internal  audit  systems,  which  clarifies  the  roles  and  responsibilities  in  internal 
controls. 
 
The  Borrower  has  issued  a  Government  Regulation  (No.  71/2010)  on  accrual-
based accounting  
 
The Borrower, through the Directorate General of Treasury, has submitted a draft 
regulation  to  the  Minister of  Finance  detailing  accounting  policies  and  chart  of 
accounts. 

The Borrower, through the National Team, has instructed agencies implementing 
Cluster 1 poverty programs to use the Unified Database. 
 
The  Borrower’s  National  Team  Executive  Secretariat  working  group  has 
submitted  a  policy  note  on  cost  scenarios  for  health  insurance  for  the  poor 
(Jamkesmas) and a proposed health management information system to the chair 
of the National Team. 

 
Section II. 
 
A. 

Availability of Loan Proceeds 

General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 

Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.    The  Loan  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 

Allocations 

 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
C. 

Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 
400,000,000 
 
400,000,000 

Payment  of  Front-end  Fee.    No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.  

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.  No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank  is  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program 
being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   

 
7. 

8. 

9. 

 
10. 

11. 

 
B. 

 

 
D. 

 
 E. 

 

7 

 
1. 

 
2.  

all  withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the 
Loan  into  this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the 
Borrower’s  budget  management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the 
Bank. 

Excluded  Expenditures.    The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is March 31, 2012. 

 

 
F. 

 
G. 
 

 

8 

SCHEDULE 2 

 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
2.17 
2.22 
2.28 
2.34 
2.40 
2.46 
2.52 
2.58 
2.64 
2.71 
2.78 
2.85 
2.92 
2.99 
3.07 
3.14 
3.22 
3.30 
3.38 
3.47 
3.56 
3.65 
3.74 
3.83 
3.93 

 
1. 

 

 

 

 

April 1, 2021 
October 1, 2021 
April 1, 2022 
October 1, 2022 
April 1, 2023 
October 1, 2023 
April 1, 2024 
October 1, 2024 
April 1, 2025 
October 1, 2025 
April 1, 2026 
October 1, 2026 
April 1, 2027 
October 1, 2027 
April 1, 2028 
October 1, 2028 
April 1, 2029 
October 1, 2029 
April 1, 2030 
October 1, 2030 
April 1, 2031 
October 1, 2031 
April 1, 2032 
October 1, 2032 
April 1, 2033 

9 

4.02 
4.12 
4.23 
4.33 
4.44 
4.71 

 
October 1, 2033 
April 1, 2034 
October 1, 2034 
April 1, 2035 
October 1, 2035 
April 1, 2036 
 
2.  

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

 

 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date, the principal amount  of  the  Loan repayable  by  the  Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original 
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

4. 

 
Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule,  upon  a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 

10 

repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion 
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency 
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  

If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for 
each such amount. 

 

 

 
5. 

 

11 

APPENDIX 

 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 

 
“BPOM” means Badan Pengawas Obat dan Makanan, the Borrower’s National 
Agency for Drug and Food Control, or any successor thereto. 

“Cluster  1”  means  the  grouping  of  the  Borrower’s  household-based  social 
assistance  programs,  including  but  not  limited  to  health  service  fee  waivers, 
subsidized  rice  distribution  programs,  cash  transfers  for  poor  students  and 
conditional cash transfers. 
 
“Connectivity”  means  the  connectivity  policy  focus  of  the  Borrower  that 
emphasizes intra-island, inter-island and international connections including, but 
not limited to, infrastructure, transportation, communications, trade and logistics. 
 
“Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs” means Kementerian Koordinator 
Bidang  Perekonomian,  the  Borrower’s  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Economic 
Affairs, or any successor thereto.  
 
“Directorate  General  of  Customs”  means  Direktorat  Jenderal  Bea  Cukai,  the 
Borrower’s  Directorate  General  of  Customs  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  or  any 
successor thereto. 
 
“Directorate  General  of Treasury”  means  Direktorat Jenderal  Perbendaharaan, 
the  Borrower’s  Directorate  General  of  Treasury  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  or 
any successor thereto. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or 
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 

for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published 
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3 
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future 
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the 
Borrower: 

(a)  

 
(b) 

 

 

1. 

 
2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 
 

 

12 

Group 
112 
121 

Sub-group 
 
 

Description of Item 
Alcoholic beverages 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 

 

 

 

 

718.7 
 

728.43  

897.3 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury 
consumption; 

for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 

122 

525 

667 

718  

728 

897  

971  

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

 

 

13 

(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 

“Executive Secretariat” means the executive secretariat of National Team, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, commencing on January 1 and 
ending on December 31 of each such year. 
 
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans”,  dated  July  31,  2010  with  the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

“Government  Regulation”  means  a  Peraturan  Pemerintah,  a  regulation  of  the 
government of the Borrower. 
 
“Government  Work  Plan”  means  the  annual  government  work  plan  of  the 
Borrower (Rencana Kerja Pemerintah, or RKP). 
 
“Indonesia National Single Window” or “INSW” means the Borrower’s national 
trade facilitation system that enables single submission of date and information, 
single and synchronous processing of data and information and single decision-
making for customs release and clearance of cargo. 
 
“Jamkesmas”  means  Jaminan  Kesehatan  Masyarakat,  the  Borrower’s  national 
health insurance scheme. 
 
“LKPP”  means  Lembaga  Kebijakan  Pengadaan  Barang/Jasa  Pemerintah,  the 
Borrower’s National Public Procurement Agency, or any successor thereto. 
 
“Minister  of  Finance”  means  the  Borrower’s  Minister  of  Finance,  the  senior 
official in the Ministry of Finance. 
 
“Ministerial Decree” means a Keputusan Menteri or Kepmen, a decree of a line 
ministry  of  the  Borrower,  and  “Ministerial  Decrees”  means  more  than  one  (1) 
Ministerial Decree. 
 
“Ministerial Regulation” means a Peraturan Menteri, or Permen, a regulation of 
a line ministry of the Borrower. 
 
“Ministry/Agency Budget and Work Plan” means a budget and annual work plan 
(Rencana  Kerja  dan  Anggaran  Kementerian/Lembaga,)  of  a  line  ministry  or 
agency  of  the  Borrower,  and  Ministry/Agency  Budget  and  Work  Plans  means 
more than one such budget and work plan. 
 

 

 
8. 

9. 

10. 

 
11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

 

14 

“Ministry of Finance” means Kementerian Keuangan, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
“Ministry of Trade” means Kementerian Perdagangan, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Trade, or any successor thereto. 
  
“National Team” means Tim Nasional Percepatan Penanggulangan Kemiskinan 
(TNP2K), the National Team for the Acceleration of Poverty Reduction, which is 
a cabinet-level committee chaired by the Vice President of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
“Non-Tariff  Measures”  means  policy  measures  of  the  Borrower,  other  than 
tariffs, that affect trade. 
 
“President” means the head of state of the Borrower. 
 
“Presidential  Instruction”  means  Instruksi  Presiden  or  Inpres,  an  instruction  of 
the President of the Borrower. 
 
“Presidential  Regulation”  means  a  Peraturan  Presiden  or  Perpres,  a  regulation 
of the President of the Borrower. 
 
“Program”  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to 
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or 
referred to in the  letter  dated  October  19,  2011  from  the  Borrower to the  Bank 
declaring  the  Borrower’s  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and 
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support  of  the  Program  during  its 
execution. 

“RKA-K/L”  means  Rencana  Kerja  dan  Anggaran  Kementerian/Lembaga,  a 
budget and annual work plan of a line ministry or agency of the Borrower. 
 
“RKP” means Rencana Kerja Pemerintah, the annual government work plan of 
the Borrower. 
 
“Single  Sign  On”  means  the  mechanism  under  the  Indonesia  National  Single 
Window  whereby  a  single  action  of  user  authentication  and  authorization  can 
permit a user to access all public services by multiple government agencies. 
 
“Single  Withdrawal  Tranche”  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
“Unified  Database”  means  the  database  of  poor  households  and  families 
maintained by the National Team. 

 
20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

 
28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

 

15 

 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   

The last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial  Statements;  Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
… 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures 
under  the  Loan  until  two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 

(c) 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 

(c)  

The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
… 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a 
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably 
request,  on  the  execution of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan 
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or 
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 

 

 

 

16 

The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   

“‘Eligible  Expenditure’  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 

The  term  “Financial  Statements”  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their 
entirety. 

The  term  “Project”  is  modified  to  read  “Program”  and  its  definition  is 
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  “Project”  throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  

“‘Program’  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  

(a) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

