CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 8016-PA 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
 
(Enhanced Public Sector Efficiency Technical Assistance Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
 
 
 
and 

 

 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 

Dated September 26, 2011  
 

 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement dated September 26, 2011, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ (“Borrower”) 
 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an 

integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty five million Dollars ($55,000,000), (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 
days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions. 
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains 
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(e) of the General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms  of  the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management,  namely:  a 
change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any  portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 

 

 

 

 

 

Rate,  or  vice  versa,  or  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a 
Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread. 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is 
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  “Conversion”,  as  defined  in  the 
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  

Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 

(b) 

 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project. To  this end,  the 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

through MEF, carry out Parts 1, 2 (a) of the Project and those Project activities 
under Part 4 of the Project which fall within the jurisdiction of MEF; 

cause CGR to carry out Parts  2 (b), 2 (c) and those Project activities under Part 4 
of the Project which fall within the jurisdiction of CGR; and 

cause DGCP to carry out Part 3 of the Project (in partnership with the Borrower’s 
Procurement  Administrative  Tribunal  with  respect  to  Part  3  (d)  of  the  Project) 
and  those  Project  activities  under  Part  4  of  the  Project  which  fall  within  the 
jurisdiction of DGCP. 

All the above in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement. 

 
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

CGR  Legislation  and/or  DGCP  Legislation  have  been  amended,  suspended, 
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  Bank,  the  ability  of  CGR  and/or  DGCP,  as  the  case  may  be,  to 
perform any of its obligations under the Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement; 
and 

(b) 

CGR and/or DGCP have failed to comply with any  of its obligations under the 
Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement. 

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  any  event 
specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for 
a period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 

 

-2- 

 

 

Borrower,  unless  the  Borrower  establishes,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  the  Tripartite 
Inter-Institutional  Agreement  has  been  assigned  or  transferred  to  successor  entities 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

The Tripartite  Inter-Institutional  Agreement  has  been executed  on  behalf  of the 
parties thereto; and  

The Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, though MEF, CGR 
and DGCP, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

 
5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the  Tripartite Inter-
Institutional  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  are 
legally binding upon MEF, CGR and DGCP, in accordance with its  terms. 

 
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
shall  be the  date ninety  (90)  days  after the date  of this  Agreement,  but  in  no  case later 
than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Financing  which  shall 
expire on September 3, 2012. 

 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsimile: (507) 507-7200 
 

6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423 (MCI) or 
 64145 (MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

-3- 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

AGREED  at  the  District  of  Columbia,  United  States  of  America,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 
above written. 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ 
 

By /s/ Mario E. Jaramillo 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

-4- 

 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  public  agencies  of  the  Borrower  in  producing, 
using  and  disseminating  timely  and  quality  performance  information,  thereby  allowing  a  more 
efficient, transparent and accountable use of the Borrower’s public budget funds. 
 
 
 
Part 1: 
 

Strengthening Performance-Based Budget Management and Evaluation 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

The  provision  of  support  to  MEF,  including,  goods,  IT  equipment,  operating  costs, 

training and technical assistance for the carrying out of activities aimed at:  
 

(a) 

 
(b) 

improving  the  institutional  and  technical  capacities  of  MEF  for  performance-
based  strategic  planning  and  budgeting  in  order  to  create  conditions  for 
enhancing the quality of public spending, including, inter alia: (i) strengthening 
institutional  planning  and  budgeting  frameworks;  (ii) 
and  harmonizing 
organizational strengthening and re-designing of MEF and other sector planning 
and  budgeting  responsible  units  within  the  Borrower’s  central  government 
structure;  (iii)  introducing  annual  and  multi-annual  budget  planning  and 
programming  tools;  (iv)  defining  and  institutionalizing  methodologies  for 
strategic  planning  and  budgeting;  and  (v)  developing  technical,  managerial  and 
organizational capacities for result-based planning and budgeting; and 

supporting the development and institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation 
functions and systems at the national level and in Pilot Sectors, including, inter 
alia: (i) designing and implementing a national monitoring and evaluation system 
under  MEF  coordination  and  leadership;  (ii)  designing  and  implementing  pilot 
monitoring  and  evaluation  systems  in  Pilot  Sectors;  (iii)  enhancing  the 
production, quality, utilization and availability of performance information;  (iv) 
developing 
the 
institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation functions and systems; and (v) 
producing  and  disseminating  methodologies  for  the  institutionalization  of 
monitoring and evaluation functions and systems. 

technical,  managerial  and  organizational  capacities 

for 

New Financial Management Model: Strengthening Budget Execution, 
Treasury, Accounting and Control  

 
Part 2: 

 

The provision of support to  MEF (only with respect to  paragraph (a) below) and CGR, 
including goods, operating costs, training and technical assistance, for the  modernization of the 
Borrower’s current financial management system, through the carrying out of activities aimed at: 
 

(a) 

consolidating  and  integrating  all  core  public  financial  management  processes 
within  the  Borrower’s  central  government,  focusing  on  interoperability  and 
integration  among  selected  MEF  areas  such  as  budgeting,  accounting,  treasury, 
payroll,  public  procurement,  public  investment  and  planning,  including,  inter 
alia:  (i)  conceptual  and  functional  designing  of  a  new  financial  management 

-5- 

 

 

system  to  be  used  by  all  public  sector  agencies;  (ii)  defining  an  applicable 
technological  framework  (software  requirements,  IT  security  policies,  software 
architecture design, server levels agreements for software, hardware and selected 
services);  (iii)  analyzing  alternatives  for  implementing  the  new  financial 
management  model;  (iv)  customizing/constructing 
technology 
systems compatible with the alternative selected under (iii) above; (v) reviewing 
and  updating    normative  framework  supporting  the  new  financial  management 
model; and (vi) supporting the implementation of the new financial management 
model  in  all  public  sector  agencies,  including  the  provision  of  the  relevant 
training to personnel working on such agencies; 

information 

modernizing  control  systems  performed  by  CGR,  through  the  strengthening  of: 
(i)  the  Borrower’s  financial  management  control  framework;  (ii)  the  internal 
control framework and internal audit functions in the public sector; (iii) CGR’s 
institutional  support  functions,  including  human  resources,  IT,  and  learning 
management;  (iv)  the  promotion  of  public  participation  in  the  public  financial 
management  oversight,  including  the  strengthening  of  the  existing  claims  and 
allegations center concerning public financial mismanagement; and (v) the public 
accounting standards in coordination with MEF; and 

supporting  the  Borrower’s  statistical  capacity,  through:  (i)  the  provision  of 
technical  assistance  for  the  improvement  of  national  accounts  and  survey  data; 
(ii)  the  provision  of  training  to  enhance  INEC’s  capacities;  and  (iii)  the 
acquisition  of  the  necessary  software  and  hardware to  upgrade  INEC’s  systems 
and capacity to produce, analyze and disseminate statistics. 

Strengthening Public Procurement and Contracting Capacity 

 
Part 3:  
 

The  provision  of  support  to  DGCP,  including  goods  and  IT  equipment,  training  and 
technical  assistance,  for  the  reform  of  the  Borrower’s  public  procurement  process,  through  the 
carrying out of activities aimed at:  
 

including, 

inter  alia:  (i) 

supporting  the  institutional  strengthening  of  DGCP,  as  well  as  building  the 
capacity  of  public  procurement  officials, 
the 
development  of  a  curriculum  to  support  the  professional  development  of 
procurement  public  officials  in  line  with  the  business  needs  of  the  different 
government  procurement  organizations,  in  partnership  with  INADEH;  (ii)  the 
development  and  implementation  of  an  educational  campaign  for  suppliers  and 
civil  society;  (iii)  the  development  of a  business  continuity  model  including  all 
aspects related to the security and integrity of the system, along with a document 
management  system;  (iv)  the  creation  of  a  supplier  registry  and  the  required 
management tools to ensure its efficient operation and connection  with existing 
government  systems  within  the  Borrower’s  central  government;  and  (v)  the 
development  of  a  demand-driven  approach  to  carry  out  specific  efficiency 
analysis to identify opportunities for savings and efficiency gains; 

supporting the ongoing  legal and regulatory reforms to pursue the modernization 
of the Borrower’s public procurement system and processes, including, inter alia: 
(i) the drafting of a new procurement law, the necessary regulations and manuals; 

-6- 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

 

(ii) the  development  of training  and  educational  materials  on the application  of 
the new legal framework as well as the necessary training to build the capacity of 
legal  and  compliance  teams  throughout  the  public  service;  and  (iii)  the 
development of standard bidding documents; 

supporting  the  ongoing  development  of  the  Borrower’s  e-procurement  platform 
PanamaCompra version2, including, inter alia: (i) the  development  of modules 
to  replace  the  existing  electronic  catalogs;  (ii)  the  interface  with  the  financial 
management  system  and  other  public  sector  management  systems;  (iii)  the 
modernization  of  office  and  management  systems,  including  the  review  and 
update of the security system, as well as the implementation of new measures to 
strengthen  the  integrity  of  the  system;  and  (iv)  the  development  and 
implementation of a complaints management system for DGCP, together with the 
implementation  of  quality  standards  such  as  ISO  and  the  Capability  Maturity 
Model Integration (CMMI); and 

developing  a  research  center  in  the  Borrower’s  Procurement  Administrative 
Tribunal,  including,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  provision  of  the  necessary  hardware  and 
software  for  the  set  up  of  a  virtual  library  that  will  compile  best  practices  in 
public  procurement,  as  well  as relevant  doctrine  and jurisprudence;  and  (ii)  the 
carrying out of capacity building activities for public officials, lawyers and civil 
society stakeholders involved in procurement processes. 

 
(c) 

 
(d) 

 

Part 4:   Creation and Support of Project Management Capacities 

The  provision  of  support  to  MEF,  CGR  and  DGCP  including,  inter  alia,  goods  and  IT 
equipment,  training  and  technical  assistance  for  the  carrying  out  of  adequate  management,  
monitoring, reporting, auditing and evaluation of Project implementation activities, as well as the 
Borrower’s public sector efficiency reform agenda.   
 

 

-7- 

 

 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Implementation Arrangements 

Institutional Arrangements   

The Borrower shall ensure that within MEF: 

Section I. 
 
A. 

 1. 
 

(a) 

(b) 

responsibility is assigned internally for the overall implementation, coordination, 
monitoring and reporting of the Project among selected departments and units of 
MEF described in detail in the Operational Manual and coordinated by DPI; and  

a  team  of  dedicated  professionals  is  established  within  DPI  and  thereafter 
maintained,  throughout  Project  implementation,  to  provide  administrative 
support  to  the  technical  focal  points  in  the  departments  and  units  concerned  of 
Project implementation. Said team  shall further: 
  
(i) 

operate with structure, mandate and resources satisfactory at all times to 
the Bank; and consist of staff, each having qualifications and experience 
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  among  them,  as  the  case  may  be, 
specialists  selected  and  appointed  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
 
be entrusted with exclusive responsibility for ensuring the overall Project 
coordination in collaboration with DGCP and CGR Project implementing 
teams, including in respect of the financial and audit aspects thereof and 
the monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 

(ii) 

 
2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  CGR  and  DGCP  respectively  to  establish  and  maintain 
throughout  Project 
teams  consisting  of 
professionals having qualifications and experience at all times satisfactory to the  Bank, 
including  among  them,  as  the  case  may  be,  specialists  selected  and  appointed  in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

implementation,  Project 

implementing 

The Borrower shall, not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, establish and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a Reform Steering Committee: 

(a) 

(b) 

responsible  for,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  Project  progress  oversight,  orientation  and 
coordination;  (ii)  addressing  constraints  in  Project  implementation;  and  (iii) 
approving annual operating plans for the Project; and  

chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and comprising representatives 
of MEF, CGR and DGCP, all as further set forth in the Operational Manual. 

-8- 

 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
C. 

1. 

Inter-Institutional Agreements 

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  CGR  and  DGCP’s  respective  Parts  of  the  Project,  the 
Borrower, through MEF, shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to CGR, 
and  DGCP,  under  an  inter-institutional  agreement,  entered  into,  on  behalf  of  the 
Borrower,  among  MEF,  CGR  and  DGCP,  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the 
Bank,  (“Tripartite  Inter-Institutional  Agreement”),  which  shall  include,  inter  alia,  the 
following: 
 
(a) 

the arrangement for the harmonization, rationalization and consolidation by MEF 
of all financial managements issues, audit and reporting for the Project; 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

the requirement that CGR and DGCP promptly inform MEF and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with the performance of 
their respective obligations under the Project; and 

the requirement that CGR and DGCP shall comply with the pertinent provisions 
of this Agreement, the Operation Manual and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the  Tripartite 
Inter-Institutional Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.    Except  as  the  Bank  shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail 
to enforce the Tripartite Inter-Institutional Agreement or any of their provisions. 

Operational Manual 
 
The  Borrower,  through  MEF  shall  adopt,  and  shall  cause  CGR  and  DGCP  to  adopt  an 
operational  manual  for  the  Project  (“Operational  Manual”),    satisfactory  in  form  and 
substance  to  the  Bank,  and  consisting  of  different  schedules  setting  forth,  respectively, 
rules,  methods,  guidelines,  specific  development  plans,  standard  documents  and 
procedures  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  including  the  following:  (a)  the  detailed 
operational  strategy  for  Project  coordination;  (b)  the  detailed  description  of  Project 
implementation activities, their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; (c) the qualification, experience, functions, responsibilities, structure  
of key staff of DPI in MEF, CGR and DGCP assigned to Project execution, the detailed 
composition  of  the  Reform  Steering  Committee  under  the  Project,  all  the  institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof and the ensuing assignment of respective responsibilities 
for the Project activities, including, inter alia, the financing, procurement, reporting and 
auditing  aspects  thereof;  (d)  the  Project  administrative,  financial,  accounting,  auditing, 
procurement  and  disbursement  procedures,  including  all  pertinent  standard  documents 
and model contracts in relation thereto; (e) the overview of planned capacity building and 
training activities, including workshops and study tours, to be carried out for purposes of 
the  Project;  (f)  the  final  form  of  the  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  and  Financial 
Statements  for  the  Project  and  the  terms  of  reference  for  the  financial  audits  of  the 
Project; (g) the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the Project; and (h) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 

 

-9- 

 

2. 

 
3. 

 
D. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
E. 
 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 
 

The Borrower shall, through MEF, and shall cause CGR and DGCP to: (a) maintain the 
Operational Manual throughout Project implementation; (b) take all measures necessary 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in conformity with the Operational Manual; and 
(c) only amend the Operational Manual, from time to time, with the Bank’ prior written 
consent. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall cause 
CGR and DGCP not to, (including not allowing any party to any contract or agreement 
entered into with CGR and DGCP for purposes of this Loan), amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provisions thereof. 

In the event of a conflict between any provision of the Operational Manual and any one 
under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 

Other Implementation Arrangements 

 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  DGCP,  not  later  than  3  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  to 
enter into an inter-institutional agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Procurement 
Administrative Tribunal therein allowing DGCP to execute Project activities under Part 3 
(d)  of  the  Project,  on  behalf  and  for  the  benefit  of  the  Procurement  Administrative 
Tribunal,  all  in  compliance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  this  Agreement,  the 
Tripartite  Inter-Institutional  Agreement,  the  Operation  Manual  and  the  Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines.  

MEF  shall  ensure  throughout  Project  implementation  that  DPI  prepares  and  submits 
regular overall Project progress reports to the Reform Steering Committee for its review.  

The  Borrower  shall, through  MEF,  and  shall  cause CGR  and  DGCP  to,  ensure  that  the 

Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 

Anti-Corruption 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 
 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be 
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of  the  period  covered  by 
such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  in  MEF  and  shall  cause  to  be  maintained  in  CGR  and 
DGCP respectively a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall:  

 

-10- 

 

 
3. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

Procurement 

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

(a) 

 
(b) 

through MEF, prepare for the respective parts of the Project implemented 
by  MEF,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  covering  the  semester,  in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 

cause  CGR  and  DGCP  each  to  prepare  for  the  respective  parts  of  the 
Project  that  they  are  implementing  interim  unaudited  financial  reports 
covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
and thereafter through MEF, furnish to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of each calendar semester, as part of the Project Report for 
the Loan, the said unaudited financial reports for MEF together with the 
interim unaudited financial reports for CGR and DGCP respectively.  

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MEF,  have  the  Financial  Statements  for  the  Project, 
including  the  relevant  parts  of  the  Project  implemented  by  MEF,  CGR  and  DGCP 
respectively, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General 
Conditions  for  the  Loan  Agreement.  Each  audit  of  the  Financial  Statements  described 
heretofore  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited 
Financial Statements described heretofore for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  

Goods and Non-consultant services. All goods and Non-consultant services required for 
the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’  Services.    All  consultants’  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.    The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services 

International  Competitive  Bidding.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 
below, goods, and Non-consultant Services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding based on SBDs previously agreed with the 
Bank  and  subject  to  the  following  additional  procedures  which  shall  equally  apply  in 
respect of any procurement of goods and Non-consultant Services carried out using NCB 
and Shopping procedures mentioned in the next paragraph 2 (a) below: 
 

 

-11- 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2. 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a 
prerequisite for bidding; 

no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the time of 
bid opening; 
 
the  invitation  to  bid  shall  not  establish,  for  purposes  of  acceptance  of  bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  

the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid meeting 
as a condition to bid. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-consultant  Services.  The 
following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International 
Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods and  Non-consultant  Services.   The 
Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances  under  which  such  methods  may  be 
used. 

Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB), subject to: (i) the additional procedures set 
forth  in  Section  III  B.  1  above;  and  (ii) the  additional  requirement that  the  time 
allowed for preparation and submission of bids shall not be less than four weeks, 
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank. 

(b) Shopping, subject to: (i) the additional procedures set forth in Section III B. 1 

above and (ii) the additional requirement that a minimum of three quotations shall 
be obtained as a condition to award the contract. 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior consent. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants’  Services.    The  following  table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection.  
(b)  Selection Based on the Consultants Qualifications. 
(c)  Selection under a Fixed Budget. 
(d)  Least Cost Selection. 
(e)  Single Source Selection. 
(f)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for 

the selection of Individual Consultants. 

 

-12- 

 

3. 

D. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
 

Special  Provisions.  With  respect  to  each  method  set  forth  in  this  Section  III.  C,  the 
procurement  of  consultants’  services  shall  be  carried  out  subject  to  the  following 
additional provisions, namely, that foreign consultants shall not be required to:  
 
(a) 

furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax 
status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and  

 

submit their proposals in person. 

(b)   
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions  

The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be subject 
to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank.  

 In case of conflict between the provisions of the Procurement Plan and the provisions of 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.   

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World  Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 

The  proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed in Dollars unless otherwise agreed between 
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  so  reflected  in  the  additional  instructions  referred  in 
Section  IV.  A.  1  immediately  above.  Consistently  with  Section  2.05  of  the  General 
Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  use  an  amount  equivalent  to  the  amount  in  Dollars 
provided under the Loan Agreement to finance Eligible Expenditures. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be 
financed  with  an  amount  equivalent  to  the  amount  in  Dollars  provided  under  the  Loan 
(“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the  amounts  of  the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

 

28,000,000 

Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
  
100% 

(1) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Training, Operating 
costs and consultants’ services for 
Parts 1 and 2 (a) of the Project 

 

-13- 

 

 

B. 
 
1. 
 

 
2. 
 

 

11,500,000 

100% 

15,000,000 

500,000 

100% 

100% 

55,000,000 

 

 

 

(2) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Training, Operating 
costs and consultants’ services 
for Parts 2 (b) and (c) of the 
Project 
(3) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Training, Operating 
costs and consultants’ services 
for Part 3 of the Project 
(4) Goods, Non-consultant 
Services, Operating costs, 
Training and consultants’ 
services for Part 4 of the 
Project 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 

 

 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

(a) 

 
(b) 

“Training”  means  reasonable  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower  for  the 
carrying out of training activities under the Project, including reasonable costs of 
travel  and  per  diem  of  trainers  and  trainees,  rental  of  training  facilities  and 
equipment, refreshments, publishing services and printing training materials. 

“Operating Costs” means incremental expenditures incurred by the Borrower for 
recurrent costs  associated with the implementation  of  the  Project,  including:  (i) 
office  supplies,  rental  of  office  facilities  and  utilities;  (ii)  transportation  costs, 
travel and per diem cost for technical staff which will carry supervisory activities 
under the Project; and (iii) vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance costs. 

“Non-consultant  Services”  means  services  to  be  contracted  for,  inter  alia, 
communication  campaigns,  including  surveys  and  outreach  programs  and  IT 
connections. 

 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made: 

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee; or 

for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $1  million  (one  million  Dollars) 
equivalent may be made for payments made twelve months prior to this date but 
on or after January 24, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures. 

The Closing Date is September 30, 2016. 

-14- 

 

 

 

 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date.

Principal Payment Date 

Beginning May 15, 2015  
through May 15, 2035 

On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
  
On November 15, 2035  
 
2.  

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

2.38% 

2.42% 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 

(a) 

 
(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 

Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment  Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date.  

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and 
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 

 
3. 

(a) 

 

 
 

-15- 

 

(b) 

 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of 
such billing system.  

 

 

-16- 

 

APPENDIX 

 
Definitions 
 
1. 

 

 

2. 

3. 

 
4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.  

“Category”  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

“CGR”  means  Contraloría  General  de  la  República,  the  Borrower’s  Office  of  the 
Comptroller, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 

“CGR Legislation” means Law No. 32 of the Borrower dated November 8, 1984, and its 
subsequent  modifications,  which  establishes  CGR  as  an  independent  entity  discharging 
the duties of general comptroller’s office over Borrower’s funds.  
 
the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
“Consultant  Guidelines”  means 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010. 
 
“DGCP”  means  Dirección  General  de  Contrataciones  Públicas,  an  autonomous  entity 
responsible  for  public  procurement  of  all  public  sector  entities  of  the  Borrower  or  any 
successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 

“DGCP  Legislation”  means  Law  No.  22  dated  June  27,  2006,  and  its  subsequent 
modifications, establishing DGCP as an independent entity subject to the supervision of 
CGR and the Borrower’s policies issued by MEF. 

“DPI” means Dirección de Programación de Inversiones, the Department of Investment 
Planning of MEF. 

“General  Conditions”  means 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 

the  “International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction  and 

“INADEH” means Instituto Nacional de Formación Profesional y Capacitación para el 
Desarrollo Humano, the Borrower’s national institute for profesional training and human 
development. 

“INEC”  means  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadística  y  Censo,  the  Borrower’s  national 
institute of statistics and census. 

“Inter-Institutional  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.D.1  of 
Schedule  2  to  this  Loan  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Procurement  Administrative 
Tribunal allows DGCP to execute Project activities under Part 3 (d) of the Project. 

“ISO” means International Organization for Standardization. 

-17- 

 

 
“IT” means information technology. 

“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 

“Operational Manual” means the manual for the Project referred to in Section I. C. 1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
“Pilot  Sectors”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Health,  Ministry  of  Social 
Development, Ministry of Government and any other ministry proposed by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank. 

“Procurement Administrative Tribunal” means a tribunal of the Borrower, responsible for 
deciding and arbitrating public procurement issues and cases. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 
2010. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated 
January  27,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
“Reform  Steering  Committee”  means  the  committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.  A.  3  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
“Tripartite  Inter-Institutional  Agreement”  means  the  agreement  among  the  Borrower, 
through  MEF,  CGR  and  DGCP  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.  B  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

14. 
 
15. 
 
16. 

17. 

 
18. 

  
19. 

 
20. 

21. 

22. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

-18- 

