CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 8086-HR 

Loan Agreement 

 

(Integrated Land Administration System Project) 
 

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 

between 
 

and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated August 17, 2011  
 

LOAN NUMBER 8086-HR 

 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

Agreement  dated  August  17,  2011,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  CROATIA 
(“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

 

 

 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  sixteen  million  five  hundred 
thousand  Euro  (º(cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:15)(cid:24)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:3) DV(cid:3) VXFK(cid:3) DPRXQW(cid:3) PD\(cid:3) EH(cid:3) FRQYHUWHG(cid:3) IURP(cid:3) WLPH(cid:3) WR(cid:3)
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.07  of  this  Agreement (“Loan”),  to  assist in financing  the  project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.    

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

(b) 

 

 

 

2

2.05.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management, 
namely a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a 
Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa,  or  from  a  Variable  Rate 
based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

 
4.01.  The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the Co-financing Agreement 

is June 30, 2012. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following, namely that 
the Project Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 

3

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Finance 
Katan˛L¸HYD(cid:3)(cid:24) 
10000 Zagreb 
Republic of Croatia 

Telex:   
 
862-21215 
862-21833 

 

 

 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

Facsimile: 

(385-1) 4922-598 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
INTBAFRAD   
Washington, D.C. 
 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED  at  Zagreb,  Republic  of  Croatia,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above 

4

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 

By /s/ Martina Dalic 

Authorized Representative 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

By /s/ Hongjoo Hahm 

Authorized Representative 

written. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

5

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  modernize  the  land  administration  and 
management  system  to  improve  the  efficiency,  transparency  and  cost  effectiveness  of 
government services. 
 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

Training of MOJ staff to prepare for the JIS roll out. 

Preparation of a land registration strategy and associated draft amendments to the 

Scanning  of  LRO  archives,  through  the  provision  of  Technical  Services  and 

 
Part A.  Land Registration System Development 
 
1. 
goods. 
 
2. 
legal framework for land registration, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
 
3. 
Development  of  software application  and  a  data  entry  process  to  re-create  land 
book  information;  and  processing  of  backlogged  land  registry  cases,  through  the 
provision of consultants’ services and Technical Services. 
 
4. 
 
Part B.  Spatial Information and Cadastre System Modernization 
 
1. 
Construction  of  a  scan  center  for  digital  archiving  of  cadastre  documents;  and 
scanning and indexing of cadastre documents, through the provision of works, goods and 
consultants’ services. 
 
2. 
Restructuring  of  the  SGA’s  regional  offices,  through:  the  acquisition  of  new 
office  space  in  Bjelovar  and  Sibenik;  renovation  works  of  existing  office  space;  and 
consultants’ services for strategic planning. 
 
3. 
Modernization  of  the  cadastre  system,  through  the  provision  of:  consultants’ 
services for studies and preparation of technical specifications; and hardware for further 
development of the Geoportal. 
 
4. 
Preparation of draft by-laws and regulations on the utility line cadastre;  piloting 
of SGA data transfer to digital form; development of a central solution for running and 
maintaining  the  utility  line  cadastre;  and  establishment  of  scale  maps,  model 
specifications and a cartographic database, through the provision of consultants’ services, 
Technical Services and goods. 
 

6

Homogenization  of cadastre  maps;  and  harmonization  of cadastre  data,  through 

Development and system roll-out of the JIS, through  the provision of Training, 

Part C.  Improving Digital Services   
 
1. 
the provision of Technical Services. 
 
2. 
Technical Services, consultants’ services and goods.  
 
3. 
Establishment  of  a  permanent  organizational  structure  to  manage  the  JIS 
operation  over  the  long  term;  and  strengthening  of  the  institutional  capacity  to  manage 
the JIS, through the provision of consultants’ services and goods. 
 
Part D.  Project Management, Training and Public Awareness 
 
1. 
of goods, consultants’ services, Training and Operating Costs, including audit. 
 
Development  of  a  curriculum  and  on-going  professional  training  for  licensed 
2. 
land registry  clerks  and  other  LRO  staff,  through  the  provision  of consultants’ services 
and goods. 
 
3. 
staff, through the provision of Training, consultants’ services and goods. 
 
4. 
reform, through the provision of consultants’ services and goods. 

Development  of  a  professional  training  program  for  SGA  and  cadastre  office 

Improving public awareness of the real property registration and cadastre system 

Support to the PIU for the implementation of the Project, through the provision 

7

SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 
 

Section I.

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The  LRMS  shall  be  solely  responsible  for  implementation  of  Part  A  of  the 
1. 
Project and shall have joint responsibility, together with the SGA, for implementation of 
Parts C and D of the Project, as further specified in the Project Implementation Plan.  The 
Project  Coordinator  within  the  LRMS  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  coordination, 
flow  of  information  and  decision-making  related  to  the  activities  under  the  Project  for 
which  LRMS  is  responsible.    To  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project 
Coordinator  position  within  the  LRMS  is  filled  and  adequately  funded  throughout  the 
duration of the Project, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

2. 
The  SGA  shall  be  responsible  for  implementation  of  Part  B  of  the  Project  and 
shall have joint responsibility, together with LRMS, for Parts C and D of the Project, as 
further specified in the Project Implementation Plan.   The Project Coordinator within the 
SGA shall be responsible for day-to-day coordination, flow of information and decision-
making related to the activities under the Project for which SGA is responsible.  To this 
end,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure that  the  Project  Coordinator  position  within the  SGA  is 
filled  and  adequately  funded  throughout  the  duration  of  the  Project,  in  a  manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 

3. 
The  PIU  shall  be  responsible  for  procurement,  financial  management, 
disbursement,  monitoring  and  evaluation  and  safeguards  compliance  under  the  Project.  
To this end, the Borrower shall maintain, adequately fund and staff the PIU, with terms of 
reference and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 

4. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain the Project 
Steering  Committee  with a  composition  and  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  
The  Project  Steering  Committee  shall  be  responsible  for  inter-ministerial  coordination 
and strategic and policy decisions related to Project implementation. 

B. 

Implementation Covenants 

1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
terms  of  the  Agreement  on  the  Implementation  of  the  Integrated  Land  Administration 
System Project, the Project Implementation Plan and the Project Operational Manual, and 
shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision in the Agreement on 
the  Implementation  of  the  Integrated  Land  Administration  System    Project,  the  Project 

8

Implementation Plan or the Project Operational Manual without prior written approval by 
the Bank. 

The  Borrower  shall,  not  later  than  December  31,  2013,  establish  a  permanent 

2. 
management organization for the JIS, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 

3. 
The  Borrower,  through  the  PIU,  shall:  (i)  not  later  than  September  1,  2011, 
submit to the Bank for review and approval an annual training plan for the Project for the 
remainder  of  calendar  year  2011;  and  (ii)  on  December  1  of  each  year,  starting  on 
December 1, 2011, submit to the Bank for review and approval an annual training plan 
for the Project for the following calendar year. 
 
C. 

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 

 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

D. 

Safeguards. 

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out 

1. 
the 
Environmental Management Framework and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal 
or  waive  any  provision  of  the  Environmental  Management  Framework  without  prior 
approval by the Bank. 

in  accordance  with 

its  obligations 

2. 
For purposes of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project and prior to the commencement 
of  works  on  each  proposed  site,  the  Borrower  shall  submit  to  the  Bank  for  the  Bank’s 
approval:  (a)  the  site-specific  environmental  management  plan  and  checklist,  said  site-
specific plan and checklist to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) 
the  proposed  contract  for  said  works  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  provisions  of  the  site-
specific  environmental  management  plan  and  checklist  are  adequately  included  in  the 
respective contract. 

Section II.

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports   

A. 
 

The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General 
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.    Each  Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
B. 
 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

9

The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 

1. 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The  Borrower  shall  have  the  Project’s  Financial  Statements  audited  in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  first  withdrawal  was  made  under  the 
Preparation  Advance  for  the  Project.    The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such 
period shall be: (a) furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of 
such  period;  and  (b)  made  publicly  available  in  a  timely  fashion  and  in  a  manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section III.

Procurement

A. 

General 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.      All  goods,  works  and  non-
1. 
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting 

2. 
Services.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting 
The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than 

International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 

stipulated in the Annex to this Schedule 

 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures 
 
 
(b)  Direct Contracting under procedures set forth in paragraph 3.7 of the 
 
 
(c)  Shopping 
 

Procurement Guidelines 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

C. 
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
1. 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table 
2. 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection, 
which  may  be  used  for  consultants’  services.    The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 

Procurement Method 
 
(a) Single-Source Selection  under procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the 
  Consultants’ Guidelines 
 
(b) Fixed Budget Selection  
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on Consultant Qualification  
 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants under procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 
 
 

5.3 and 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines  

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 

Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 

10 

 

11 

 

Section IV. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General   

A. 
 
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
1. 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional 
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  “World 
Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to 
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such 
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  2 
below. 
 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
2. 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euro) 

14,438,750 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
88% 

Category 

(1)   Goods, works,   consultants’ 
cervices, Training, Technical 
 
Services and Operating 
 
Costs for the Project, 
 
 
including audit 
 
(2)  Purchase of office space 
 
(3)  Refund of the Preparation 
  Advance 

1,000,000 

1,020,000 

88% 

Amount  payable  pursuant 
to  Section  2.07  (a)  of  the 
General Conditions 
 
Amount  payable  pursuant 
to  Section  2.03  of 
this 
Agreement  in  accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

(4)  Front-end Fee 

 

41,250 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

16,500,000

12 

 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 

B. 
 
1. 
made: 
 

(a) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  º(cid:20)(cid:15)(cid:24)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:3) PD\(cid:3) EH(cid:3) PDGH(cid:3) IRU(cid:3)
payments made prior to this date but on or after June 2, 2011, for Eligible Expenditures 
under Category 1; and 
 

(b) 

under  Category  2,  unless  the  Borrower  has  presented  to  the  Bank  an 
executed  purchase  agreement  or  executed  purchase  agreements  in  form  and  substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, documenting the purchase of office space in accordance with the 
provisions of the POM. 
 
2. 
 

The Closing Date is October 31, 2015. 

13 

 

Annex to Schedule 2 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding 
 

For  the  purposes  of  following  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures  in  the 
procurement  of  goods,  services  (other  than  consultants’  services)  and  works  to  be 
financed under the Loan, the following modifications and additions shall apply: 
 
(i) 

Procedures

The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts.  Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (Narodne  Novine) and  in  at  least  one 
widely  circulated  national daily  newspaper  or on  the website  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice 
and/or the State Geodetic Administration, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 

Participation of Government-owned Enterprises

Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower’s territory 
shall  be  eligible  to  participate  in  bidding  only  if  they  can  establish,  to  the  Bank’s 
satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
laws  and  are  not  a  dependent  agency  of  the  Borrower’s  government.    Said  enterprises 
shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(iii) 

Bidding Documents

The Borrower shall use appropriate bidding documents that are acceptable to the 

Bank. 
 
(iv) 

 

 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

 

Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation

Bids  shall  be  submitted  in  a  single  envelope  containing  the  bidder’s 
qualification information, technical and price bids, which shall be opened 
simultaneously at the public bid opening. 

Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline  for 
submission of bids.  The name of the bidder, the total amount of each bid 
and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes 
of the public bid opening. 

The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding documents and a merit point 
system shall not be used. 

14 

 

(4) 

 
(5) 

Extension  of  bid  validity  shall  be  allowed  once  only  for  not  more  than 
thirty  (30)  days.    No  further  extensions  should  be  granted  without  the 
prior approval of the Bank. 

Contracts  shall  be  awarded  to  qualified  bidders  having  submitted  the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 

(6) 

No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 

 

 
(v) 

Price Adjustment

Civil  works  contracts  of  long  duration  (e.g.,  more  than  eighteen  (18)  months) 

shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(vi) 

Rejection of All Bids

 

(1) 

All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s 
prior written concurrence. 

 
(2)  When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding shall not 

be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 

 
(vii) 

Securities

Bid  securities  should  not  exceed  two  percent  (2%)  of  the  estimated  cost  of  the 
contract;  and  performance  securities  not  more  than  ten  percent  (10%).    No  advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 

15 

 

16 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
1. 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the 
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date. 
 

Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 

Principal Payment Date 

On each May 15 and November 15 
 

Beginning November 15, 2015   
through November 15, 2030  

 
 
On May 15, 2031 

3.13% 

2.97% 
 

2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 

(a) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 

(b) 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be 
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such  withdrawal  in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in  paragraph  1  of  this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  (“Original  Installment 
Share”)  and  the  denominator  of  which is the sum  of  all remaining  Original  Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date. 

(a) 

3. 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 

 

on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  

 

17 

 

18 

APPENDIX 

Section I.

Definitions

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 
 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

9. 

 
10. 
 

“Agreement  on  the  Implementation  of  the  Integrated  Land  Administration 
System Project” means the agreement between the MOJ and the SGA dated May 
16, 2011, setting forth the relationship and responsibilities of the MOJ and SGA 
regarding Project preparation and implementation. 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Co-financier” means European Union. 

“Co-financing”  means,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  16  of  the  Appendix  to  the 
General Conditions, an amount of six million eight hundred thousand Euro to be 
provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the Project. 

“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. 

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 

“Environmental  Management  Framework”  means    the  framework  dated  March 
31,  2011,  prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, 
consisting  of:  the  set  of  mitigation,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures 
required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  taken  to  eliminate  adverse  environmental 
impacts,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  as  well  as  actions 
needed  to  implement  said  measures,  including  the  measures  and  information 
required  for  the  preparation  of  site-specific  environmental  management  plans; 
and provisions on physical cultural resources and mitigating measures as required 
pursuant to the Bank’s OP 4.11. 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 

“Geoportal” means the online geoportal maintained by SGA. 

 

11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 
 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 
19. 

 
20. 

 
21. 

“JIS”  means  the  Borrower’s  Joint  Information  System  for  registration  and 
cadastre. 

“LRMS” means the Land Registration Management Sector within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Justice. 

“LRO” means Land Registry Offices within the Borrower’s municipal courts. 

“MEPPPC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment Protection, Physical 
Planning and Construction, and includes any successor thereto. 

“MOF”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Finance, and  includes  any  successor 
thereto. 

“MOJ”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Justice,  and  includes  any  successor 
thereto. 

“Operating  Costs”  means  expenditures  incurred  by  the  Borrower  on  account  of 
the  Project 
implementation  for  office  supplies,  utilities,  bank  charges, 
communication tools, advertisement fees, translation and interpretation services, 
transportation,  travel  costs,  car  rental  and  fuel  costs,  office  rental  and 
maintenance, moving expenses, equipment maintenance and repair, printing and 
publications, and  per diem  allowances and accommodation  costs for PIU,  SGA 
and LRO staff, insurance for goods and salaries for PIU staff, including qualified 
social charges, but excluding salaries for the Borrower’s civil servants.  

“PIP”  means  the  Project  Implementation  Plan  prepared  by  the  Borrower  and 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the detailed implementation schedule and 
arrangements  for  the  Project,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  and  supplemented 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval. 

“PIU”  means  the  Borrower’s  Project  Implementation  Unit,  maintained  by  the 
Borrower in accordance with Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  

“POM” or “Project Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual 
prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  the 
operational  and  administrative  responsibilities,  procedures  and  rules  for  the 
implementation  of  the  Project  and  criteria  for  the  purchase  of  office  space  as 
approved  by  the  Bank's  Land  Acquisition  Committee,  and  including  the 
Environmental  Management  Framework, 
financial  management 
arrangements  for  the  Project,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  and  supplemented 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior written approval. 

and 

“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General  Conditions,  granted  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to the letter 

19 

 

agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on June 29, 2010 and on behalf of the 
Borrower on August 3, 2010. 

“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works 
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 2011. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  June  1,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“Project  Steering  Committee”  means the  project  steering  committee  established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s decision dated May 16, 2011, and maintained by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section I.A.4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and 
comprising  representatives  of  the  MEPPPC,  MOJ,  MOF,  Supreme  Court  and 
SGA. 

“SGA”  means  the  Borrower’s  State  Geodic  Administration,  and  includes  any 
successor thereto. 

“Supreme Court” means the Borrower’s Supreme Court. 

 “Technical  Services”  means  services  for  carrying  out  cadastre  surveying, 
orthophoto mapping, data conversion and digitizing, development of information 
technology  systems,  and  other  technical  services  to  be  contracted  under  the 
Project on the basis of performance of measurable physical outputs. 

“Training”  means  Project  related  study  tours,  training  courses,  seminars, 
workshops  and  other  training  activities,  including  costs  of  training  materials, 
space  and  equipment  rental,  travel,  accommodation  and  per  diem  costs  of 
trainees  and  trainers,  trainers’  fees,  and  other  training  related  miscellaneous 
costs. 

 
22. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 
 
27. 

 
28. 

 

20 

 

