CONFORMED COPY 

LOAN NUMBER 8056-RO 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
 
(Social Assistance System Modernization Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
ROMANIA 
 
 
 
and 

 

 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
 

Dated July 8, 2011  
 
 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

 

 

 
Agreement  dated  July  8,  2011,  between  ROMANIA  (“Borrower”)  and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions  or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  five  hundred  million  Euro  (EUR 
500,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 

Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 

 
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 

- 2 - 

 

 

 

2.06.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with  provisions 

of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

(b) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

ARTICLE III - PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the MoLFSP in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 

The Borrower’s Social Assistance Reform Strategy and Action Plan have 
been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived,  without  the 
Bank’s prior consent, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of  the  Borrower  to  carry  out  the  Project  or  to  perform  any  of  its 
obligations under this Agreement. 

(a) 

 

- 3 - 

 

 

The  Borrower’s  Legislation  regulating  Social  Assistance  Programs  has 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to  effectively 
implement  the  Social  Assistance  Reform  Strategy  to  carry  out  the 
Project. 

(b) 

 

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period  of  60  days  after  notice  of  the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the 
Borrower. 

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Borrower, through MoLFSP, has approved the POM satisfactory to the Bank. 

 
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the 

date of this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 

6.01.  The Borrower’s Representative is the Ministry of Public Finance. 
 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 

 
Ministry of Public Finance 
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest 
Romania 
 
 
 
 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

 

 

Telex:   

11239 

 

 

 

Facsimile: 

4021 312 6792 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

- 4 - 

 
ROMANIA 
 

 
 
AGREED at Bucharest, Romania as of the day and year first above written. 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

By /s/ Francois Rantrua 

 

Authorized Representative 

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/ Gheorghe Ialomitianu 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

- 5 - 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  the  overall  performance  of  the 
Borrower’s  social  assistance  system  by  strengthening  performance  management, 
improving equity, improving administrative efficiency and reducing error and fraud.  
 
 
 

The Project consists of the following: 

 

Provision  of  financing,  through  reimbursement  of  Payments  for  the  Eligible 
Expenditure Program (EEP) already incurred out of the Borrower’s budgetary allocations 
in  support  of  implementation  of  the  Borrower’s  reform  program  aimed  at  improving 
social assistance system. 

 

- 6 - 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements 

The  Borrower,  through  MoLFPS,  shall:  (a)  take  all  necessary  measures  to 
1. 
effectively  implement  the  Social  Reform  Assistance  Strategy  and  Action  Plan;  and  (b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the POM and shall not amend, 
waive or abrogate any provisions of the POM without the Bank’s prior approval.  
 
2. 
The  Borrower,  through  the  General  Directorate  for  Social  Assistance  (GDSA) 
within the MoLFSP, shall ensure coordination of Project’s implementation and shall be 
responsible for: (a) monitoring the achievement of the DLIs; (b) compiling and delivering 
the  documentary  evidence  of  achievement  of  respective  DLIs  to  the  Bank;  and  (c) 
coordinating  with  the  MoPF  in  preparation  and  submitting  to  the  Bank  of  withdrawal 
applications under the Project. 

 
3. 
The  Borrower,  through  MoPF,  MoLFSP  and  NASB,  shall  ensure  the  Project’s 
financial management implementation. The MoPF, MoLFSP and NASB will continue to 
execute  the  budget  payments  related  to  the  EEP  through  the  existing  channels  and 
procedures, while the county branches of NASB, i.e. the CASB, shall regularly report on 
the receipt of payments and utilization of budget funds. In this respect, the MoLFSP and 
NASB  shall  ensure that  the  EEP  reporting  is  regular,  timely  and  is  in  compliance  with 
statutory reporting requirements. 

 
4. 
The Borrower, through MoLFSP, shall take all necessary measures to strengthen 
the institutional capacity for strategic planning, performance monitoring and performance 
management of the GDSA, the Social Inspection and NASB and the National Institute for 
Medical  Expertise  and  Work  Capacity  Recovery,  in  accordance  with  the  Stand-by 
Arrangement between Romania and IMF and the MoU and the Loan Agreement between 
Romania and the EC, respectively. 

 
The Borrower shall ensure that appropriate budget allocations are made available 

5. 
yearly for the Project implementation purposes, throughout the Project duration. 
 
B. 

Anti-Corruption 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 

 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

- 7 - 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

Project Reports   

The Borrower, through MoLFSP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08  of  the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of the  indicators  acceptable  to 
the Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6)  months, and shall 
include:  (a)  expenditure  data  for  the  Social  Assistance  Program  included  in  the 
EEP in compliance with the Borrower’s national economic budget classification; 
(b) Project’s implementation reports in a format and content as described in the 
POM . Such reports shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report.  

Without limitation upon provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the Borrower 
shall,  through  MoLFSP,  NASB  and  CASBs,  retain  all  detailed  expenditure 
information with respect to payments to beneficiaries under the Social Assistance 
Programs included in the EEP within their jurisdiction, which may be requested 
by the Bank for post review. 

During  Project  implementation,  the  Borrower,  through  the  Court  of  Accounts, 
shall  carry  out  annual audits  of the  Social  Assistance  Programs  included  in  the 
EEP, and shall provide such audit reports to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the end of the audited calendar year, starting with the audit of 2011. 

During Project implementation, the Borrower, through MoLFSP, shall cause the 
Social  Inspection  to  carry  out  sample  based  thematic  inspections  of  the 
implementation  of  the  Social  Assistance  Programs  included  in  the  EEP  (except 
the State Child Allowance Program), in such scope and regularity as defined in 
the  POM  and  covering,  without  limitation,  the  level  of  irregularities  and  errors 
occurring  in  administering  social  benefits,  their  causes  and  remedial  actions 
taken. Starting with the calendar year of 2012, during Project implementation, the 
reports of  the thematic inspections shall be provided for the Bank’s review not 
later  than  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  end  of  thematic inspection. The  Borrower, 
through MoLFSP, shall provide the Bank an opportunity to discuss and comment 
on  said  reports  and  shall  promptly  carry  out  the  agreed  recommendations 
provided by the Bank upon such reviews. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

- 8 - 

 

B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
2. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower,  through  MLSPF  and  NASB,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be 
maintained a financial management system in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower, 
through MLSPF and NASB, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the 
Project Report not later than forty five (45) after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports  for the Project  covering the  quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

The  Borrower,  through  MLSPF  and  NASB,  shall  have  Program  Financial 
Statements  relating to the EEP  audited by the Court of Accounts in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of 
the Program Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower,  shall  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  reference 
acceptable to the Bank. The audited Program Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the 
end of such period.  

 
Section III.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to reimburse Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
paid  by  the  Borrower  and  reimbursed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 
(“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage  of  expenditures  to  be  financed,  through  reimbursement  for  Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 

- 9 - 

 
 
B. 
 
1. 
made: 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
2. 

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 

(1)  Payments  under 

the 

500,000,000 

EEP 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

500,000,000 
 

Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
Amount  up  to  withdrawal 
ceiling set forth in the table 
in  paragraph  B.2(a)  of  this 
Section 
 
 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 

(a) 

(b) 

(c)  

from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee;  

for payments under Category (1) with respect to each tranche, as set forth 
in  the  table  in  paragraph  B.2  (a)  of  this  Section,  for  which  withdrawal 
request  has  been  submitted,  unless  the  Borrower,  through  MOPF,  has 
submitted evidence satisfactory to the Bank that Payments under the EEP 
have been made to eligible beneficiaries by the Borrower in accordance 
and  in  compliance  with  the  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Borrower’s 
applicable laws and regulations; and 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed Euro one hundred 
million (EUR 100,000,000 equivalent) may be made for reimbursements 
of payments made by the Borrower prior to this date but on or after July 
10, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1) provided that the 
Borrower  shall  have  submitted  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that 
respective DLIs have been met. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section and without limitation to 
the provision set forth in paragraph 1 above, withdrawals under Category above 
may be made by the Borrower as follows:  

(a) 

Withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  one  (1)  to  twenty  (20)  tranches  and  in 
amounts not exceeding the total of the ceilings per each respective DLI 

 

- 10 - 

provided  in  the  table  below,  subject  to  submission  to  the  Bank  of 
evidences  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  as  defined  in  the  POM  that  the 
following DLIs have been achieved: 

Withdrawal ceiling 
(expressed in EUR) 
25,000,000 

 

Disbursement-linked indicator (DLI) 

1)  Adopted Action Plan for the Social 

Assistance Strategy is disseminated by the 
MoLFSP 

2)  Three monthly monitoring reports of the 4 
programs under EEP (Family Allowance, 
Child Raising Benefits, GMI and State Child 
Allowance) are produced by NASB 
3)  Three monthly performance management 
reports for Low-income Households 
Programs are produced by NASB and used 
at the management level in the MoLFSP and 
NASB 

4)  At least 90% of the Family Allowance 

beneficiaries are paid, through NASB, for 
two consecutive months according to 
harmonized means-testing procedures and 
lower eligibility threshold 

5)  At least 90% of Child Raising Benefits 
beneficiaries entering the program since 
January 1st, 2011 are paid, trough NASB, for 
two consecutive months, using a lower 
replacement income of 75% 

6)  At least 90% of beneficiaries of the new 

consolidated program for Low-income 
Households  Programs are paid through 
NASB for two consecutive months 

7)  Share of social assistance funds going to the 
first poorest quintile increased to 45% from 
37.7% at baseline (in 2009), as measured by 
the Household Budget Survey 
8)  Enacted harmonized means testing 

procedures for the GMI, Family Allowance, 
and Heating Benefits are disseminated 
9)  Enacted harmonized disability medical 
assessment criteria are disseminated 

10) At least 90% of individuals who are certified 
for disability benefits according to the new 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

 

- 11 - 

harmonized disability system are paid 
through NASB 

11) At least 90% of the new applications for 

25,000,000 

13) At least one thematic inspection campaign is 

25,000,000 

Low-income Households and Family Policy 
Programs in the preceding two months 
comply with one-application and one-point 
of service operational guidelines 

12) Administrative costs and client participation 
costs for means-tested programs are reduced 
by 15% from baseline value 

carried out for each of the following 
programs: GMI, Disability Benefits, Family 
Allowance, Heating Benefits, and Child 
Raising Benefits 

14) Remedial action plan is adopted by NASB to 
address the recommendations of: (i) an 
independent evaluation of the completeness 
and accuracy of the SAFIR information; and 
(ii) a feasibility study of SAFIR data 
crosscheck with other databases 

15) At least 90% of GMI beneficiaries are paid 
through NASB for two consecutive months 

disabled persons is in place 

17) Sanctions policy provisions, investigative 
powers and the referrals system for the 
Social Inspection are revised and in place 
18) Three monthly lists of irregularities detected 
by NASB via data matching between SAFIR 
and the databases managed by National 
Public Pension House, and National 
Employment Agency are sent to Social 
Inspection for verification and proposing 
remedial actions 

19) Risk-based investigation to detect error and 
fraud is used by the Social Inspection for 
Low-income Households Programs, Child 
Raising and Disability Benefits 

20) Three monthly lists of irregularities detected 
by NASB via data matching between SAFIR 
and the databases of ANAF and Registrul 
National de Evidenta a Populatiei are sent to 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

25,000,000 

16) A central registry with a national database of 

25,000,000 

- 12 - 

Social Inspection for verification and 
proposing remedial actions 

 

 

 
(b) 

If,  at  any  time,  the  Bank  determines  that  any  portion  of  the  amount 
disbursed by the Bank to the Borrower under Category (1) was made for 
reimbursement of expenditures which are not eligible under the EEP or 
not  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III.B.1  (b)  of  this 
Schedule  and  the  provisions  in  the  POM,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly 
refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. 

 

3. 
 

The Closing Date is September 30, 2014. 

 

- 13 - 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
 

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 1, 2023. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 14 - 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I.  Definitions 
 

 
“ANAF” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Tax Administration, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A.2 of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 

“CASBs”  means  the  Borrower’s  County  Agencies  for  Social  Benefits,  or  any 
successors thereto. 

“Child Raising Benefits” means the benefits program as established through the 
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 148/2005 as amended. 
 
“Complementary  Budget  for  Disabled  Adults”  means  the  benefits  program  as 
established through Law No. 448/2006 as amended. 
 
“Disability Benefits” means the benefits program as established through Law No. 
448/2006 as amended. 
 
“DLIs”  means  the  Disbursement-linked  Indicators  as  set  forth  in  Section 
III.B.2.a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  such  indicators  refer  to  specific 
output  and  outcome  indicators  measuring  improved  performance  of  the 
Borrower’s Social Assistance System.  
 
“EC” means European Commission. 

“EEP”  means  Eligible  Expenditure  Program,  a  portion  of  the  Borrower’s 
budgetary  allocation  for  financing  benefits  under  four  Social  Assistance 
Programs,  including:  (i)  State  Child  Allowance  Program;  (ii)  Child  Raising 
Benefits  Program;  (iii)  Family  Allowance  Program;  and  (iv)  Guaranteed 
Minimum Income Program. 
 
“Family  Allowance”  means  benefits  established  through  Law  No.  277/2010  as 
amended. 
 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
 
10. 

11. 

 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

- 15 - 

“Family  Policy  Programs”  means  collectively  the  State  Child  Allowance 
program  (hereinafter  defined),  Child  Raising  Benefits  program  (hereinafter 
defined) or any successors thereto. 
 
“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010.  
 
“GDSA” means the Borrower’s General Directorate for Social Assistance within 
the MoLFSP (hereinafter defined), or any successor thereto.  
 
“GMI” means the Guaranteed Minimum Income as established through Law No. 
416/2001 as amended. 
 
“Heating  Benefits”  program  means  the  benefits program  as  established  through 
Government Emergency Ordinance No. 5/2003 as amended. 
 
“IMF” means International Monetary Fund. 
 
“Indemnity  for  Disabled  Adults”  means  the  benefits  program  as  established 
through Law No. 448/2006 as amended. 
 
“Legislation  regulating  Social  Assistance  Programs”  means  the  Borrower’s 
relevant legislation regulating the social assistance benefits programs on: (i) State 
Child  Allowance;  (ii)  Child  Raising  Benefits;  (iii)  Family  Allowance;  and  (iv) 
Guaranteed Minimum Income, as hereinafter defined. 
 
“Low-income  Households  Program”  means  collectively  the  Family  Allowance 
program  (hereinafter  defined),  GMI  (hereinafter  defined),  Heating  Benefits 
program (hereinafter defined) or any successor thereto. 
 
“M&E” means Monitoring and Evaluation. 
 
“MoLFSP”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Labor,  Family  and  Social 
Protection, or any successor thereto. 
 
“MoPF”  means  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Public  Finance  or  any  successor 
thereto. 
 
“MoU  and  the  Loan  Agreement  between  Romania  and  the  EC”  means  the 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  and  the  Loan  Agreement  signed  between 
Romania and EC dated June 23, 2009 ratified through the Borrower’s Emergency 
Ordinance No. 82/2009 as amended. 
 

 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

 
31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

- 16 - 

“National Employment Agency” means the Borrower’s agency established under 
the coordination of MoLPFS (hereinafter defined). 
 
“National  Institute for Medical  Expertise  and Work Capacity  Recovery”  means 
the  institute  established  under  the  subordination  of  the  Borrower’s  National 
House of Public Pensions. 
 
“NASB”  means  the  Borrower’s  National  Agency  for  Social  Benefits,  or  any 
successor thereto. 
 
“Payments  under  the  EEP”  means  monthly  payments,  out  of  the  Borrower’s 
budgetary allocations, conducted by NASB/CASB  to eligible beneficiaries under 
one  of  the  four  Social  Assistance  Programs  referred  to  in  paragraph  34 
hereinabove,  made    in  accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria,  terms  and 
provisions set forth in the respective Borrower’s laws and regulations applicable 
to the respective Social Assistance Program. 
 
“Program  Financial  Statements”  means  the  annual  financial  statements  for  the 
Social  Assistance  Programs  (hereinafter  defined)  prepared  by  the  Borrower, 
through  the  MoLFSP  and  NASB,  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  Romanian 
regulations. 
 
“POM”  means  Project  Operational  Manual  to  be  approved  by  MoLFSP  Order 
and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of  Schedule  2  of  this  Agreement,  describing 
procedures  for  implementation  of  the  Project,  consistent  with  the  provisions  of 
this Agreement and with the national laws and regulations of the Borrower. 

“Registrul National de Evidenta a Populatiei” means the national registry for the 
population  administered  by  the  Borrower’s  Ministry  of  Administration  and 
Interior. 
 
“SAFIR”  means  Integrated  Information  System  for  Administration  of  Social 
Benefits. 
 
“Social  Assistance  Programs”  means  the  Borrower’s  four  (4)  social  assistance 
programs  eligible  for  reimbursing  under  the  project,  including:  (i)    State  Child 
Allowance Program; (ii) Child Raising Benefits Program; (iii) Family Allowance 
Program; and (iv) Guaranteed Minimum Income Program. 
 
“Social  Assistance  Reform  Strategy”  means  the  Borrower’s  social  assistance 
reform  program  as  adopted  by  the  Government  through  Memorandum  dated 
March 3, 2011. 
 

- 17 - 

 

35. 

36. 

“State Child Allowance” means the benefits program as established through Law 
No. 61/1993 as amended. 
 
“Stand-by  Arrangement  between  Romania  and  IMF”  means  the  Agreement 
between  Romania  and  IMF  as  ratified  through  the  Borrower’s  Emergency 
Ordinance No. 99/2009 as amended.  
 
 

 

