CONFORMED COPY 
 
 
  LOAN NUMBER 8107-MX 

 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
 
(Savings and Credit Sector Consolidation  
and Financial Inclusion Project) 
 
 
 
between 
 
 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
 
 
and 

 

 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Dated December 13, 2011

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

 
Agreement  dated  December  13,  2011,  between  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES 
(“Borrower”)  as  represented  by  its  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Public  Credit  and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”).   
 

WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule 1  to  this  Agreement  (“Project”),  has requested  the 
Bank to assist in financing the Project. 

 
WHEREAS the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan 
(as set forth in the table of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes 
of  supporting  the  Project)  shall  be  used  in  conformity  with  the  requirements  of  the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement) 

constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  million  Dollars 
($100,000,000), as such amount  may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the Project. 

to 

 
2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with 
Section  IV  of  Schedule  2 
the  Borrower’s 
representative  designated  in  Section  6.01  of  this  Agreement  otherwise  informs 
the  Bank,  the  Borrower’s  Representative  for  purposes  of  taking  any  action 
required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is the Director General 
of  BANSEFI,  or  the  Director  General  Adjunto  de  Banca  Institucional  of 
BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such representative shall designate in 
writing.  
 

this  Agreement.  Unless 

 

 

 

2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   

2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the 
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the 
General Conditions. 

 
2.05.  The Payment Dates are March15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 

 
2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the 
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on 
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to 
itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance 
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

(b) 

 
(c) 

 

-2- 

 

 

 

  
 
ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the  Borrower  shall  cause  BANSEFI  to  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following:  
 

that BANSEFI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Mandato Agreement. 

that the BANSEFI Organic Law shall have been amended, abrogated, or 
failed to enforce in a manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of the Project.  

 
4.02.  The  Additional  Events  of  Acceleration  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that 
any  of  the  events  specified  in  Section  4.01  of  this  Agreement  occurs  and  is 
continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

 
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 

the Mandato Agreement has been duly executed by the parties thereto;  
 
the  BANSEFI  Guidelines have  been updated in a  manner  acceptable to 
the Bank; and  

the Borrower, through a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by 
Borrower  counsel  acceptable  to the  Bank,  and  BANSEFI,  in  a  separate 
legal  opinion  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  issued  by  BANSEFI  counsel 
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  indicate  that  the  Mandato  Agreement  has  been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 

(a) 

 
(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 

 

-3- 

 

 

 

 

 

the  Borrower  and  BANSEFI  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower 
and BANSEFI in accordance with the Mandato Agreement’s terms. 

5.02.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank’s  approval  of  the  Loan 
which expire on May 31, 2013. 

 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01.  Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower’s 
Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP. 

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre 3, Piso 3 
Colonia Guadalupe Inn C.P. 01020 
México, D.F. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 

 

 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
 64145(MCI) 

Telex:   

 

 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391 

 

 

 

-4- 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
above written. 

AGREED  at  Mexico  City,  United  Mexican  States,  as  of  the  day  and  year  first 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 

By /s/ Alejandro Díaz de León 
 
 

 

 

Authorized Representative 

 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
Authorized Representative 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

-5- 

 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 

The objectives of the Project are to support the: (a) consolidation of the savings 
and credit institutions (SCIs); and (b) deepening of financial inclusion in Selected Areas 
and Selected Locations. 
 
 
  
Part A.  Consolidation and Strengthening of SCIs 
 
1. 

The Project consists of the following parts: 

Provision of:  

(i)  

 
support  to  carry  out  assessments  of  selected  SCE’s  financial  and 
managerial  conditions  to  determine,  inter  alia,  whether:  (i)  an  SCE 
qualifies  for authorization by  the  CNBV  to  operate  as  a  Certified  SCE; 
(ii) an SCE requires technical assistance and training for its strengthening 
or restructuring in order to qualify for such authorization; or (iii) an SCE 
should be merged or liquidated; and  

2. 

 

 

 
3. 

(ii) 

technical assistance and training to selected Certified SCEs and SCEs to 
support 
institutional  strengthening  and/or  services 
improvement. 

their  overall 

 
Provision  of  goods,  technical  assistance  and  training  to  strengthen  the 
Confederation,  Federations,  Self-regulatory  Bodies,  Auxiliary  Supervision 
Committees and Deposit Protection Funds to, inter alia:   

(i) 

(ii) 

allow Federations to effectively provide technical assistance and training 
to their member entities and supervise them;  
 
allow  the  Confederation,  Federations,  Self-regulatory  Bodies,  Auxiliary 
Supervision  Committees  and  Deposit  Protection  Funds  to  improve 
strategic  planning,  internal  controls,  governance  aspects,  supervision 
arrangements and procedures; and 

(iii) 

allow  Federations  to  provide  legal  advice,  including  on  regulatory  and 
tax-related matters,  to their member entities, as needed. 

Carrying  out  of  sector-related  studies  and  evaluation  studies  to  establish  a 
consolidated  database  on  SCEs,  including,  inter  alia,  information  related  to 
SCEs’  financial  performance  and  status  of  compliance  with  legal  requirements 
under the LACP and the LRASCAP. 
 

-6- 

 

 

 

 

4. 

Carrying  out  of  dissemination  activities  related  to  certification  and  reporting 
requirements required under the LACP and the LRASCAP.  

 
Part B.  Broadening Access to Financial Services and Products 
 
1. 

(i) 

(ii) 

provision  of  technical  assistance  and  training  to  selected 
Certified SCEs  and  selected  SCEs  in  Transition  to  increase  their  membership 
base in  Selected  Areas  and  to  support  the  design  and  implementation  of  an 
improvement program to allow them to increase their membership base 
 
in said areas; 
 
 
provision of technical assistance and training to BANSEFI to support the 
qualitative control, and the verification of the increase of the membership 
base of selected SCEs; 
 
carrying out of studies and assessments to, inter alia, evaluate the nature, 
perception  and  participation  of  the  new  membership  in  Selected  Areas; 
and 

(iii) 

(iv) 

carrying out of dissemination activities under Part B.1 of the Project. 

(i)  
through the  
financial  
Selected  

expansion  of  BANSEFI’s  clients  base  in  Selected  Locations 
provision  of  support  from  Banking  Agents  and  processing  of 
transactions  through  the  Selected  Banking  Agents  in  said 
Locations;  

(ii) 

 
(iii)  

carrying  out  of  a  study  on  the  implementation  of  Part  B.2(i)  of  the 
Project and development of a strategy for scaling-up the activities under 
Part B.2(i) of the Project based on said study; and 

provision  of  support  for  the  dissemination  to  clients  of  new  financial 
services to be provided by Selected Banking Agents.  

Expansion  of  the  range  of  financial  services  to  be  provided  to  SCEs  and 
individual clients through:  
 
(i) 

the  provision  of  technical  assistance  and  training  to  BANSEFI  to 
improve the operation of its lines of credit to SCEs, including, inter alia, 
the  carrying  out  of  a  study  related  to    financial  sector  needs  and 
BANSEFI’s strategic focus;  
 
the  strengthening  of    the  L@  Red  de  la  Gente  Network  to  offer  an 
expanded range of financial services to the members of BANSEFI and/or 
SCEs  (including,  inter  alia,  the  carrying  out  of  studies  related  to 
governance  and  customer  relationship  management),  the  provision  of 

(ii) 

 

-7- 

 

 

 
2. 

 

 

 
3. 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(ii) 

technical  assistance and  training  to  SCEs to allow them  to join the  L@ 
Red  de  la  Gente  Network,  and  the  carrying  out  of  a  market  study  to 
analyze  the  Borrower’s  financial  sector  need  for  innovative  financial 
products;   

the carrying out of a pilot program for mobile phone banking operation 
targeted  to  BANSEFI  clients,  and  the  development  of  a  strategy  to 
potentially scale-up said pilot to non-BANSEFI members; and 

the provision of support for the dissemination of the expanded range of 
services  to  be  provided  by  the  L@  Red  de  la  Gente  Network  and  the 
mobile phone banking pilot referred to in Part B.3(ii)(iii) of the Project. 

technical  assistance  and  training,  including  workshops  and  seminars, 
directed  to  build  capacity  on  dissemination  of  financial  information  in 
civil society and sector organizations;  
 
(a)  educating  the  general  public  on  financial  services,  including  the 
dissemination  of 
information  on  financial  services  provided  by 
the  Selected  Banking  Agents,  and  by  other  sector 
BANSEFI, 
the  maintenance  of  BANSEFI’s  website 
organizations;  and  (b) 
(www.finanzasparatodos.org.mx) 
to  provide  guidance  on  financial 
topics; 

 
4. 

Provision of financial education through: 
 
(i) 

(iii) 

the  development  of  materials  focused  on  financial  education  to  be 
distributed  at  training  events,  workshops  and  seminars,  including,  inter 
alia, materials targeting children, women and indigenous peoples; and 

(iv) 

the  carrying  out  of  studies  to  evaluate  the  impact  of  the  financial 
education activities  referred to in this Part B.4 of the Project.  

 
Part C.   Strengthening BANSEFI’s Capacity  
 
1. 

(i)  
BANSEFI,  
enhance  
 
(ii) 

provision  of  services  to  expand  the  technological  capacity  of 
including  its  information  technology  platform’s  mainframe,  to 
its processing and storage capacity and efficiency; and 

provision  of  technical  assistance  and  training  to  SCEs  or  any  other 
financial  institution  that  will  be  adopting  BANSEFI’s  information 
technology platform. 

Provision of training for BANSEFI’s staff on topics related to this Project. 

 

-8- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2. 
 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

Provision of support for the dissemination of the functional capabilities 
of  BANSEFI’s  information  technology  platform  and  operational  and 
financial benefits.  

Carrying  out  of  a  campaign  to  strengthen  the  BANSEFI  brand  as  a 
development bank. 

 
Part D.  Project Management 
 

Provision  of  technical  assistance,  training  and  material  support  to  BANSEFI’s 
staff, consultants and providers of non-consulting services in order to assist them in the 
implementation of the Project. 

 

 

 

-9- 

 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

Implementation Arrangements 

Section I. 
 
A. 

Institutional Arrangements  

The  Borrower  shall  cause  BANSEFI  to  maintain  at  all  times  during  the 
implementation  of  the  Project,  a  team  which  shall  be  responsible  for:  (i)  the 
implementation  of  the  Project;  and  (ii)  the  overall  procurement,  financial 
management, audit, monitoring and evaluation, reporting, and safeguards aspects 
of the Project.  

The  team  referred  to  in  paragraph  A.1  above  shall  be  headed  by  the  Director 
General  of  BANSEFI  or  any  other  representative  designated  in  writing  by 
BANSEFI,  and  consist  of:  (i)  staff  in  adequate  numbers,  qualifications  and 
experience;  and  (ii)  consultants  and  providers  of  non-consulting  services 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement  on  the  basis  of  terms  of  reference,  qualifications  and  experience 
satisfactory to the Bank. 

The functions and resources of the team referred to in paragraph A.1 above shall 
be  sufficient  and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  at  all  times  during  Project 
implementation.  

Mandato Agreement  

The  Borrower  shall  enter  into  a  contract  (the  Mandato  Agreement)  with 
BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 

(a) 

(b) 

 
(c) 

BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the  Loan,  meaning  that,  inter  alia,  BANSEFI  agrees  to  represent  the 
Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications  to  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  sufficient  to  justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds; 

the Borrower and BANSEFI agree to abide by, and carry out the Project 
in accordance with, the provisions of this Agreement, including the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines, and the Operational Manual;  

the  Borrower  shall  have  the  right  to,  in  case  of  fraud  or  corruption  (as 
defined  in  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines)  provide  for  the  early 
termination  of  the  Mandato  Agreement,  or  temporarily  suspend  its 

-10- 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 
 
1. 

 

 

 

 

 
(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

effects,  or,  if  applicable,  require  the  restitution  of  funds  transferred  to 
BANSEFI under said Mandato Agreement; and 

the Borrower agrees to cooperate fully with BANSEFI (in its capacity as 
financial  agent)  to  ensure  that  BANSEFI  is  able  to  comply  with  all  of 
BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in this Section. 

 
The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the 
Mandato Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank 
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce  any  provision  of  the  Mandato  Agreement.  In  case  of  any  conflict 
between the terms of the Mandato Agreement and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

Other Implementation Arrangements  

With  respect  to  Parts  A.1,  A.2,  B.3(ii)  and  C.1(ii)  of  the  Project,  and  upon 
approval by BANSEFI  (the Acceptance Letter) of any given SCI Proposal, the 
Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to: 

individual  consultants  and/or  consulting  firms 

either:  
 
(A)  select 
in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement; or  
 
(B)  ensure  that  said  SCI:  (i)  (A)  selects  individual  consultants  or 
consulting  firms  in  accordance  with  the  BANSEFI  Guidelines  and 
the  pertinent  provisions  of  Section  III  of  this  Schedule;  and  (B) 
thereafter, enters into an agreement with said individual consultant or 
consulting  firm  under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank 
(using the model contract set forth in the BANSEFI Guidelines); and 
(ii)  complies  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines 
and the Operational Manual; as the case may be; and 
 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  this  Agreement,    the  pertinent  Acceptance  Letter  and  the 
BANSEFI Guidelines, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 

With  respect  to  Part  B.1(i)  and  (iv)  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  cause 
BANSEFI to:  
 
 

 

-11- 

 

2. 

 
C. 
 
1. 

 

2. 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

select  providers  of  non-consulting  services  or  consulting  firms,  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of    Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this 
Agreement,  to  provide  the  technical  assistance  referred  to  in  said  Part 
B.1(i) of the Project;  

 

enter  into  an  agreement  in  writing  with  each  said  provider  of  non-
consulting  services  or  consulting  firm  (using  a  model  contract 
satisfactory to the Bank) so that they enter into a written agreement with 
a  selected  SCE  (selected  in  accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria  
satisfactory to the Bank) to provide each Selected SCE with the technical 
assistance referred to in Part B.1(i) and B.1(iv) of the Project in exchange 
for  said  selected  SCE  commitment 
the  relevant 
improvement program;  

implement 

to 

pay said consulting firm for the services they render under their contracts 
with BANSEFI referred to in -paragraph (2) (b) above, all pursuant to a 
payment-for-results regime agreed between BANSEFI and the Bank and 
reflected in the contracts referred to above; 

systematically monitor the agreements between said consulting firms and 
the SCEs in order to verify compliance with the performance standards 
and  targets  agreed  between  the  provider  of  non-consulting  services  or 
consulting firm and the SCE as set forth in the agreement referred to in 
subparagraph (2) (b) above; and 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  contract, 
referred  to  in  paragraph  (2)  (b)  above,  with  the  providers    of  non-
consulting services or consulting firms also referred to therein, in such a 
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the 
purposes of the Loan.  In case of any conflict between the terms of any of 
the  contracts  referred  to  in  paragraph  (2)  (b)  above  and  those  of  this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 

3. 

With respect to Part B.2(i) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to:  
 
(a) 

enter into a separate  agreement  in writing with each Selected Banking 
Agent  (the  Selected  Banking  Agent  Agreement)  whereby  the  pertinent 
Selected  Banking  Agent  shall  agree  to  act,  through  its  different  stores 
and/or outlets, as a banking agent for BANSEFI to, inter alia, process the 
financial transactions of BANSEFI’s clients referred to in Part B.2(i) of 
the Project; 

 

 

-12- 

 

 

 

 

pay each Selected Banking Agent  using BANSEFI’s own funds and not 
Loan  proceeds,  a  fee  for  the  services  its  stores  and/or  outlets  render 
under the Selected Banking Agent Agreement; and 
 
exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  the  Selected 
Banking Agent Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  In  case  of  any 
conflict  between  the  terms  of  the  Selected  Banking  Agent  Agreement 
and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 

Operational Manual  

D. 

1. 

The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to: (i) implement the Project in accordance 
with  an  operational  manual  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  (ii)  cause  all  entities 
involved  in  the  implementation  of  the  Project  to  do  so  in  accordance  with 
relevant sections of said manual, which shall include, inter alia: 

the  detailed  description  of  all  Project  implementation  activities,  their 
sequencing  and  the  prospective  timetable  and  benchmark  in  relation 
thereto; 

the  Project  administrative,  financial,  accounting,  auditing,  procurement 
and disbursement procedures, including all relevant standard documents; 

the selection criteria for SCIs to participate in Parts A.1, A.2, B.3(ii) and 
C.1(ii) of the Project; 

the selection criteria for SCEs to participate in Part B.1(i) of the Project, 
including,  in  the  case  of  an  SCE  in  Transition,  the  communication  by 
said  SCE  to  BANSEFI,  through  its  improvement  program,  of  its 
intention to obtain authorization by the CNBV; 

the  processing  arrangements  and  the  responsible  departments  within 
BANSEFI  in  charge  of  providing  the technical  assistance referred  to in 
Parts A.1, A.2 and Part B.1 of the Project, including the model contracts 
to be used; 

the  processing  arrangements  and  the  responsible  departments  within 
BANSEFI for the selection of the Selected Banking Agents to be used in 
the implementation of Part B.2(i) of the Project; 

the IPPF for the Project; 

the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; 

the BANSEFI Guidelines;  

-13- 

 

 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b)  

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(j)  
 

(k) 

the  plan  for  the  monitoring,  evaluation  and  supervision  of  the  Project; 
and 

the performance indicators for the Project. 

Except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail 
to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 

In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

E. 

Anti-Corruption 

F. 

Safeguards 

The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 

The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the IPPF. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

Section II. 
 
A. 
 

Project Reports   

The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project  and  to  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable 
to the Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end 
of the period covered by such report.  

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  BANSEFI  to  maintain  a  financial 
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the 
General Conditions. 

Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
cause BANSEFI to prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 

 

-14- 

 

2. 

3. 

 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 

 

The Borrower shall cause BANSEFI to have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.  

Procurement 

 
Section III. 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General 

Goods  and  non-consulting  services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 

Consultants’ Services.  All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the  requirements  set  forth or  referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the  Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 

Special  Provisions.  The  Borrower,  through  BANSEFI,  shall:  (a)  supply  the 
SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan  within 
forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  update  the 
Procurement Plan at least once a year, or as needed through the duration of the 
Project,  to  reflect  the  actual  Project  implementation  needs  and  progress  and 
supply  the  SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the  updated  Procurement 
Plan immediately thereafter. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and non-consulting services 

International Competitive Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods.  The  following  table  specifies  the 
methods  of  procurement,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  which 
may  be  used  for  goods.   The  Procurement  Plan  shall specify  the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 

 

-15- 

 

3. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4.  

 
B. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
 

 

Procurement Method 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(a)  Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
 
1. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 

Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table 
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based 
Selection,  which  may  be  used for  consultants’ services.  The  Procurement  Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 

 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single-source Selection  
(f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines  for 
the selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 

The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 

 
Section IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such 
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower 
(including  the  “World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects”  dated  May 
2006,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 

 

-16- 

 

 
2. 

 
2. 

 

amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

 
 
Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
 

 

65,350,623 

Percentage of  
Expenditures to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)  

53% 

(1) Goods, Operating Costs, 
Training, Consultants' 
Services and non-consulting 
services (except for non-
consulting services and 
Consultants' Services under 
Parts B.1 (i) and B.1(iv) of 
the Project)  
(2)  Consultants’  services 
and non-consulting services 
under  Parts  B.1(i)  and 
B.1(iv) of the Project 
(3) Front-end Fee 

(4)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest 
Collar 
Rate 
premium 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
B. 
 
1. 

 

34,400,000 

40% 

 

 

249,377  Amount  payable  pursuant  to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in  accordance  with  Section 
2.07 
the  General 
Conditions 
Amount  due  pursuant 
Section 
Agreement 
 

to 
this 

(b)  of 

2.07(c) 

of 

  100,000,000 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $20,000,000  equivalent 
may be made for payments made for Eligible Expenditures prior to this date but 
on or after January 1, 2011 (but in no case more than one year prior to the date of 
this Agreement). 

The Closing Date is July 31, 2015. 

 

-17- 

 

 
 

 
2. 
 

 

 

 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on March 15, 

 
 
2023. 
 

 

 

-18- 

 

APPENDIX 

 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 

“Acceptance  Letter”  means  BANSEFI’s  written  notification  to  any  given  SCI 
communicating  BANSEFI’s  approval  of 
in 
accordance with the BANSEFI Guidelines.  

the  pertinent  SCI  Proposal 

“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011. 

“Auxiliary  Supervision  Committee”  means  any  of  the  committees  charged  by 
LACP  and  the  LRASCAP  with  the  responsibility  of  exercising  regulatory 
supervision  ofSCEs,  which  responsibility  is  auxiliary  to  that  exercised  by  the 
CNBV. 
 
“BANSEFI”  means  Banco  del  Ahorro  Nacional  y  Servicios  Financieros, 
Sociedad  Nacional  de  Crédito  Institución  de  Banca  de  Desarrollo,  a  Mexican 
development  bank  created  pursuant  to  the  BANSEFI  Organic  Law  (or  any 
successor  thereto  acceptable  to  the  Bank)  acting  as  the  Borrower’s  financial 
agent for purposes of the Loan and as the entity responsible for implementation 
of the Project. 

“BANSEFI  Guidelines”  means  BANSEFI’s  “Lineamientos  de  Operación”, 
acceptable to the Bank, which set forth the guidelines for the implementation of 
Parts  A.1,  A.2,  B.3(ii)  and  C.1(ii)    of  the  Project,  as  well  as  the  guidelines  for 
providing training to BANSEFI’s staff under Part C.2 of the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 

 “BANSEFI Organic Law” means Ley Orgánica del Banco del Ahorro Nacional 
y Servicios Financieros, the Borrower’s law that created BANSEFI, as said law 
was published on June 1, 2001 in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial 
de la Federación); and said term includes the regulations to said law, as said law 
and regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement. 

 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Certified  SCE”  means  any  SCE  which,  having  met  relevant  regulatory 
requirements, has been authorized by the CNBV to operate as a certified entity 
pursuant to the LACP and the LRASCAP. 
 

-19- 

 

 

 
2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

 

“CNBV”  means  Comisión  Nacional  Bancaria  y  de  Valores,  the  Borrower’s 
National Banking and Securities Commission. 

“Confederation” means Confederación, an entity with separate legal personality, 
consisting of a voluntary association of Federations.  

“Consultant  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 

“Deposit  Protection  Fund”  means  Fondos  de  Protección,  any  of  the  trusts 
established on December 11, 2009 pursuant to Chapter VI of the LACP and Title 
IV of the LRASCAP. 

“DICONSA”  means  “DICONSA,  S.A.  de  C.V.”  a  company  in  which  the 
Borrower controls the majority of its shares, originally incorporated on April 28, 
1986 with the modifications approved by the DICONSA’s shareholders through 
the date of this Agreement (or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank).  

“Federation”  means  Federación,  an  entity,  with  separate  legal  personality, 
consisting of a voluntary association of SCEs or SCEs in Transition.  

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010. 

“IPPF” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples planning framework dated July 
22, 2011 and published in BANSEFI’s website on July 25, 2011, referred to in 
Section  I.F.  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  which  sets  forth,  inter  alia:  (i) 
measures  to  be  taken  during  the  implementation  of  the  Project  to  eliminate  or 
offset  adverse  social  impacts,  or  to  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  (ii) 
guidelines and  procedures for the preparation and implementation of indigenous 
peoples  plans  to  ensure  their  participation  in  the  Project;  and  (iii)  the  actions 
needed to implement the measures and procedures referred in (i) and (ii) above, 
including  monitoring  and  institution  strengthening  activities,  and  as  it  may  be 
further amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank, 
and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such framework. 

“LACP”  means  Ley  de  Ahorro  y  Crédito  Popular,  the  Borrower’s  popular 
savings  and  credit  law,  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on June 4, 2001 as amended through August 21, 2009, 
as said law may be amended from time to time. 

“L@ Red de la Gente Network” means the network alliance between BANSEFI 
and  SCEs  and  SCEs  in  Transition  offering,  inter  alia,  the  following  services: 
national and international remittances, third party payments and micro-insurance, 

 

-20- 

 

9. 

 
10. 

 
11. 

 
12. 

 
13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

 
16. 

 
17. 

 
18. 

 

all  pursuant  the  provisions  of  a  trust  agreement  (Contrato  de  Fideicomiso  No. 
10055) dated October 20, 2003. 

“LRASCAP”  means  Ley  para  Regular  las  Actividades  de  las  Sociedades 
Cooperativas  de  Ahorro  y  Préstamo,  the  Borrower’s  law  that  regulates  the 
activities of savings and loan cooperatives, published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) on August 13, 2009, as said law may 
be amended from time to time. 
 
“Mandato  Agreement”  means  the  contract  referred  to  in  Section  I.B.1  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement which terms and conditions, include, inter alia, the 
obligation of BANSEFI to implement the Project.  

“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental operating expenses incurred 
by BANSEFI, on account of Project implementation, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation,  including  costs  of  office  operation  and  maintenance,  travel  and 
supervision  costs,  per  diem,  but  excluding  salaries  of  BANSEFI  officials  and 
public servants of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section I.D.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the prior written agreement of the Bank, and such term includes any annexes 
and schedules to such manual. 

“PEMEX” means Petróleos Mexicanos, a Borrower’s decentralized entity (with 
separate  legal  personality),  established  by  a  Borrower’s  decree,  dated  June  7, 
1938, and regulated by, inter alia, the Borrower’s Petróleos Mexicanos Law (Ley 
de  Petróleos  Mexicanos)  published  in  the  Borrower’s  Official  Gazette  (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on November 28, 2008.  

“Procurement  Guidelines”  means  the  “Guidelines:  Procurement  under  IBRD 
Loans  and  IDA  Credits”  published  by  the  Bank  in  May  2004  and  revised  in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 

“Procurement  Plan”  means  the  Borrower’s  procurement  plan  for  the  Project, 
dated  October  26,  2011  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 

“SCE”  means  any  of  the  following  savings  and  credit  entities:    a  Sociedad 
Financiera  Popular,  a  Sociedad  Financiera  Comunitaria,  a  Organismo  de 
Integración Financiera Rural or a Sociedad Cooperativa de Ahorro y Préstamo, 
referred to in Article 3 of the LACP and Article 2 of the LRASCAP and which is 
subject to the provisions of the LACP and LRASCAP. 

 

-21- 

 

 
19. 

20. 

 
21. 

22. 

 
23. 

 
24. 

 
25. 

 
26. 

 

 

“SCE  in  Transition”  means  a  SCE  which  has  started  the  process  to  obtain 
authorization by CNBV to operate as a certified entity pursuant to the LACP and 
the LRASCAP. 

“SCI”  means  any  of  the  following  savings  and  credit  institutions:  an  SCE 
(including  an  SCE  in  Transition),  a  Confederation,  a  Federation,  a  Self-
regulatory  Body,  an  Auxiliary  Supervision  Committee  or  a  Deposit  Protection 
Fund, which is subject to the provisions of the LACP and LRASCAP. 

“SCI  Proposal”  means  any  proposal  presented  by  an  SCI  to  BANSEFI,  for 
approval thereof in accordance with the provisions of the BANSEFI Guidelines, 
to benefit from the provision of technical assistance and/or training under Parts 
A.1,  A.2,  B.3(ii)  and  C.1(ii)  of  the  Project,  which  proposal  shall  include,  inter 
alia,  a  written  representation  by  said  SCI  to  comply  with  provisions  of  the 
BANSEFI Guidelines. 

“Selected  Area”  means any  marginal  area  with  population of less than 100,000 
inhabitants within the Borrower’s territory. 

“Selected  Banking  Agents”  means  a  financial  agent  (e.g.  DICONSA,  and 
PEMEX’  gas  station  outlets)  agreed  upon  with  the  Bank,  to  be  hired  by 
BANSEFI  to  process  BANSEFI  client’s  financial  transactions  (including,  inter 
alia, the payment of certain Borrower’s transfer programs and other services such 
as remittances and third party electronic payments) as referred to in Part B.2 of 
the Project. 

“Selected Banking Agent Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
C.3(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Selected  Location”  means  locations  to  be  determined  based  on  the  eligibility 
criteria defined in the Operational Manual.  

“Self-regulatory  Body”  means  an  Organismo  Autoregulatorio  referred  to  in 
Article 113 of the LACP which is responsible for the implementation of conduct 
and operation standards among its members. 

“SEPA”  means  the  Bank’s  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans  Execution 
System. 

“SHCP”  means  Secretaría  de  Hacienda  y  Crédito  Público,  the  Borrower’s 
Finance and Public Credit Secretariat. 

“Training”  means  the  reasonable  expenditures  incurred  by  BANSEFI  with 
respect to: (i) travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers 
and  trainees  in  connection  with  their  training;  (ii)  fees  charged  by  consultants 

 

-22- 

 

27. 

 
28. 

 
29. 

 
30. 

 
31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

 

serving as trainers; (iii) reasonable course fees charged by academic institutions; 
(iv)    training  facility  and  equipment  rental  expenses;  and  (v)  training  material 
preparation,  acquisition,  reproduction  and  distribution  expenses  not  otherwise 
covered under this paragraph.  

 

 

 
 

 

 

-23- 

