OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8185-BR

Loan Agreement

(Tocantins Integrated Sustainable Regional  Development Project)
(Projeto de DesenvolvimE nto Regional Integrado e Sustentdvel no Estado do
Tocantins-PDRIS)

between

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

and

STATE  OF TOCANTINS

Dated  cDae,.-kijt  c,2012

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

dated 

Agreement 

the
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  and  the  STATE  OF  TOCANTINS  ("Borrower").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hreby agree as follows:

c  ielcel 

,  2012, 

between 

0.oJ 

.1 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  pa t  of  :his Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  me anin gs  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix to this Ag-eement.

the  capitalized 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2 01.  The Bank agrees  to  lenc  to  the Borrower,  on the terms and  conditions set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of three  hundred  million  Dollars  ($
300,000,000),  as  such  imount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  tc  assist in financing the  project described  in Schedule  I to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-erd  Fee  payable  :y  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter of one

percent (0.25%) of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided, that upon  a C onversion  of all or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan, the interest  rayable  by the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amourt  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance remains  unpaid  when  due and  such  non-
payment  ccntinues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General Co  iditions.

2.05.  The Payment Dates are  May  15  and November  15  in each year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount 

amortization  schedule  set forth in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

f  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower rt ay a:  any  time,  in each case  with  the prior  non-objection
of the  Guaranto-,  through  the  Secretariat  of the National  Treasury  of the
request  any  of  the  following
Guaiantor's  Ministiy  of  Finance, 
Conversions  of the terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt
management:  (ii  a change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all or any  portion  of
the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an
Approved  Currc ncy;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:
(A)  all  or any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  fron a Variable  Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outs-anding  fro n  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spreac  to  a  Variable  Rate based  on a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spreac  to  a  Variable Rate  based on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii) the
setting  of limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate applicable  to
all  or  any  port on  cf  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference Rate.
Any  conversion  reqaested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the  General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.
Promptly  follcwing  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the  3orrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  1.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allccated  from time  to time  for the  purpose  in the  table  in  Section IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

A RTICLE 1H - PROJECT

_.01. 

The  Borrower  declare;  its  commitment  to the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower,  t trough  SEPLAN,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  with  the
assistance  of:  (a)  SETINFRA  for Part  1 of the  Project;  (b)  SEAGRO,  SEMADES

-2-

460W

and  Ruraltins  for  Part  2 2  of the  Project;  (c)  SEMADES  and  Naturatins  for  Part
2.3.  of the  Project;  and  (d)  S'DUC  for Part 2.4  of the  Project, all  in  accordance
with the  pro- isions of A -ticle V of the General Conditions.

3.)2.  Without  limitation  upor  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
ensure  that  the  Project 
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  _Y --  REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  cf Suspension consists  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

to  perform  any  of  its
Any  Participatng  Entity  shall  have  failed 
obligations  und -r  each  Cooperation  Agreement  to  an  extent  that,  in  the
opinion  of the  Bank  would  materially  and  adversely  affect  the  carrying
out of the Project.

A  si.uation  shall  have  arisen,  and  has  continued  for  a  period of  120  days
after  notice  of  :he  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower,
which  may  material[y  and  adversely  affect,  in the  opinion  of the  Bank,
the  ability  of any  Participating  Entity  to  carry  out  its  obligations  under
the  respective  C ooperation Agreement.

Notwithstandinr  the  rights  contained  in  Section  7.02  of  the  General
Conditions,  it  is  understood  that  if  any  of  the  events  specified  in
paragraphs  (a) and (:)  of this Section  shall have occurred,  the  Bank may,
by  notice  to  th,  Borrower,  suspend  in  whole  or  in  part  the  right  of the
Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  for  expenditures
in respect of the concerned  Participating  Entity.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event of Acceleration  consists  of the  following:

Any  of  the  events  sptcified  in  paragraphs  (a)  or  (b)  of  Section  4.01  of  this
Agreement  occurs  and  is  ccntinuing  for  a  period  of 120  days  after  notice  of the
event has  bcen  given by the  Bank  to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V  --  EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of the following, namely,  that the  Loan has
been  duly registered with th-  Guarantor's Central  Bank.

-3-

5.02.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  date  ninoty  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this  Agreement,  but  in no
case  later  then  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan
which  expire  January  24  2014.

ARTICLE VI--  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

is 

its  Secretary  of  Planning  and  Public

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Reprtsentative 
Management Moderniza:ion.

6,02.  The Borrower's  Address is:

Secretaria do Planejamento  e da Modemizagio  da Gestdo  Pfiblica
Praga dos Girass6is,  s/n  CEP  77001-002
Palmas
Tocantins
Brazil

Facsimile: 

(55-63)  3212  4403

With copies  to:

SEAIN  - Secretaria  de A;suntos  Intemacionais  do
Minist6rio  dc  Planejamento,  Orgamento e  Gestdo
Esplanada  dos  Minist6rics  - Bloco K - 50 andar
70040-906  B -asilia, DF
Brazil

Facsimile: 

(55-61)  2(20-5006

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Strect, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  2043:
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

Telex: 
248L23(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at 
the- day and  year first above  writ en.

i9wd,'qAu, c(36jas of

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

STATE  OF TOCANTIN

Authorized  Representative

Authorized  Repre  ntative

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Prcject  is to  foster  improved  effectiveness  of road transport
and  enhanced  efficiency  of  sclected  public  services,  in  support  of  the  Borrower's
integrated  and territorially  balan.ed  development  agenda.

The  Project  consists of tie following parts:

Part  1 - Improving effectiveneis  of  rural transport

Provision  of  support 

remote
populations  and,  at the  same  tirie, foster  regional  economic  integration  and  support  the
Borrower's  competitiveness  and  social  inclusion  agendas,  through  the carrying  out of the
following  activities:

improve  accessibility  of  the  Borrower's 

to 

1.1. 

Improving  transport con ditio-is  on the  municipal roads

Improvement  of accessibility  of rural  populations  to  employment  opportunities,
services  and  resources  and  markets  by  the  elimination  of about  2,600  critical  spots  on
selected  municipal  feeder  roads  tirough,  inter  alia:  the  design,  construction  and
supervision  of concrete  hydraulic  structures  (bridges  and  culverts)  of  municipal  feeder
roads, all to  ensure ye-ar  round traffic  (the Municipal  Road  Subprojects).

Rehabilitating 

the  Bo:Tower's  paved  network  through  performance  based

1.2. 
contracts

Improvement  of transpc rt  conditions  on the  Borrower's  paved  roads  through  the
carrying  out  of:  (a)  a  set  of  performance  based  CREMA  Contracts  on  about  1,500
kilometres  of  identified  Borrower-managed  paved  roads  (the  State  Road  Rehabilitation
Subprojects  I);  and  (b)  if  applizabl  performance-based  CREMA  Contracts  in  selected
Borrower-managed  paved  roads  in  E.ccordance  with  criteria  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (the
Slate  Road  Rehabilitation  Subprojects  II).

1.3. 

Improving  road  and trar sport  safety conditions  on Borrower's  unpaved roads

Improvement  of connectivity  and  transport  safety  conditions  on  the  Borrower's
unpaved  roads,  thrcugh,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  elimination  of  about  20  critical  spots  on
unpaved  feeder  roads  through  the  design,  replacement  and  supervision  of  concrete
hydraulic  structures  of selected  deficient  infrastructures;  and  (ii)  design,  surfacing  and
supervision  of apprcximately  5)  km  of unpaved  road  sections  to  close  the  network  and
facilitate  access to  the national  t-unk network  (the  State Road Improvement  Subprojects).

-6-

1 A. 

Transport  management  capacity  institutional  strengthening

Improvemeni  of the  Borrower's  capacity  in  transport  planning  and  management,
logistics  and  road  sa"ety  (all  uider  :erms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank)  through
the  provision  of  goods,  consult ints'  services,  non-consulting  services  and  training  for
institutional  strengthening  of SEINFRA  in the  following  areas:  (i)  transportation  planning
road  safety;  and  (iii)  social  and  environmental
and 
mranagement.

logistics  management; 

(i) 

Part 2 - Enhanced  efficiency  ol  public  services

Provision  of  support  for  institutional  strengthening,  through  the  provision  of
goods,  works,  training,  non-cons ilting  and consultants'  services,  through  the carrying  out
of the following  activities:

2.1. 

Modernization  of the Borrower's  administration

Provision  of support  to  :he  SEPLAN  to  improve  public  services  efficiency  (all
under  terms  of refererice  acceptable  to  the  Bank)  through,  inter alia: (i)  the  introduction
of  a  results-based  management  methodology;  (ii)  a  de-concentration  of  Borrower's
administrative  services  to  its  regions,  for  purposes  of strengthening  the  municipalities'
improvement  of  environmentally  and  socially
management  capacifies; 
sustainable  land  use  olanning  prcesses  and  natural  resource  management  policies;  and
(iv)  the  improvemen.  of  service  del very  to  users  as  well  as  work  conditions  for  the
Borrower's  civil  servants  by  carying  out  rehabilitation  and/or  construction  activities  of
in  the
puolic  premises  and/or  facilitios 
Operational  Manual.

in  accordance  with  the  criteria  set  forth 

(iii) 

the 

2.:. 

Fostered  local and  regioral  development

Provision  of  support,  tluougl  the  carrying  out  of pilot  activities  aimed  towards
the  promotion  of rura.l  businesse3  and  the  creation  of opportunities  to  attract  sustainable
investments  in  selected  Borrowei's  regions (all  under terms  of reference  acceptable  to the
Bank),  which  activities  consist  of,  nter  alia:  (i)  to  SEAGRO  and  Ruraltins  for  the
promotion  of a more  efficient agi ibusiness  sector  with social  and gender  inclusiveness,  as
well  as  environmenial  and  economic  sustainability  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  by
fostering  increased  productivity  ind  better  access  to  markets  for  subsistence  production
and  small  and  medium  producer:;,  and  attracting  sustainable  investments  while  fostering
ervironment  sustaina)ility;  (ii)  to  SEVIADES  for the  preparation  of a  renewable  energy
po  icy  for  the  Borrower;  and  (iii)  to  SEPLAN  for  the  development  of ecotourism  in  the
Borrower's territory.

-7-

2.3. 

Improvement  of environmental  management

Provision  of  support  tc  SEMADES  and  Naturatins  to  improve  environmental
management  (all uncer  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to the  Bank) through,  inter alia: (i)
the  improvement  of  the  Borrower's  environmental  licensing  system  and  its  monitoring
and enforcement  activities  (excl iding any  enforcement  police-type  activity),  and  its water
rights  registration  system;  (ii)  (A)  tie  carrying  out  of studies  on  the  evaluation  of the
need  for new  public  policies  for the  conservation  and  sustainable  use of natural  resources
and  development  of biodiversi-y,  and  if applicable  as  determined  by  the  results  of said
studies,  the  development  of  regulatory  mechanisms  and  technical  instruments  for  the
conservation  and  sustainable  ue  of natural  resources  and  development  of biodiversity;
and  (B)  the carrying  out of pilct  actvities  in  support  of areas  mentioned  in  (A)  herein  to
the carrying
be  selected  in  accordance  with  criteria  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (iii)  (A) 
cut of studies  on the evaluation  of the need  for new  public policies  in water management,
and  if  applicable  a3  determinod  by  the  results  of  said  studies,  the  development  of
regulatory  mechanisms  and technical  instruments  for a more  sustainable  use of water;  and
the  carrying out  of pilot activities  in support  of the area  mentioned  in (A)  herein to  be
(B1) 
selected in  accordance  with  critcria acceptable  to the Bank.

24. 

Improvemer t of quality, relevance  and returns  in the  education  system

Provision  of  support  to  SEDUC  to  improve  quality  in  the  Borrower's  education
svstem  in  a  pilot  set  of selected  Borrower's  municipalities  with  high  vulnerability  (all
under terms  of reference  accep:able  to  the  Bank),  through,  inter alia: (i)  supporting  the
increasing
selected  municipalities 
q jality  of  education  through  dentifying  strengths  and  weaknesses  in  the  quality  of
teaching  and  providing  targeted  tra.ning  to  ameliorate  weaknesses;  and  (iii)  improving
the  relevance  and  re.urns to  schoolirg  through  supplementary  courses  in upper  secondary
schools  and improve d educatior.  materials.

in  providing  quality  early  child  development; 

(ii) 

Part 3 - Project Management

Provision  of  support 

foi  Project  management 

in  connection  with 

the

implementation  and  supervisior  of the  Project.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementatioa  Arrangements

A. 

Institutional  Arrangements

The  Borrower  shall,  at  all times  during the  execution  and  until  completion  of the
Project,  maintain  a  unit  witHin  SEPLAN  to  be  responsible  for  the  coordination
and  monitoring  of  the  Project  (the  "PMU"),  such  unit  to  have  a  structure  and
functions  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  as defined  in the  Operation  Manual,  as  well as
staff  in  adequate  numbc rs  and  with  qualifications  and  experience  acceptable  to
the Bank.

Cooperatioin  Agreemer t

Prior to  the  carrying  oul  of any  Project  activity  which  requires  the  assistance  of
any  given  Farticipating  Enlity,  the  Borrower  shall  enter  into  a  cooperation
agreement  with  said  Participating  Entity  (the  "Cooperation  Agreement"),  under
terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank, which  shall  include,  inter alia, the
Participating  Entity's obligat:on  to:  (a) assist  the  Borrower, through  SEPLAN,  in
the  carrying  out  of  sail  Project  activity  or  activities  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency;  and  (b)  comply  with  the  pertinent  obligations  under  this  Agreement,
including wilh  the provi;ions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  all as applicable
to  the corresponding  Project activity.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each
in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the
Cooperation  Agreemen 
Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as
the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agr-e,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,
waive,  terminate  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Cooperation  Agreement  or  any  of  its
provisions.

Operational Manual

Without  limitation  to  th-  provisions  of  Section  5.01  of the  General  Conditions,
the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  and/or  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be
carried  out,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of a  manual,  satisfactory  to  the
Bank  (the  "Operational  Manual"),  which  shall  detail  the  procedures  and
guidelines  for the execulion,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  Project,  including,
inter alia:

B. 

1 .

2, 

C. 

1I 

-9-

(a) 

(b) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

the  procedures  for  the  carrying  out,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the
Project  (includi ig  the  technical,  procurement,  disbursement,  financial
management,  so -ial  and  environmental  requirements  thereof);

the eligibility  criteria for the  selection  of Municipal  Road  Subprojects  the
State  Road  Improv  ment  Subprojects  and  State  Road  Rehabilitation
Subprojects  II;

(c) 

the  list of State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subprojects  I;

the  criteria  for  the  selection  of  the  public  premises  and/or  facilities
mentioned  in Pait 2.1  (iv)  of the Project;

the indicators  to  be  used  for Project monitoring  and evaluation;

the  ffnctions,  re 3ponsibilities,  structure  and  key  staff composition  of the
PMU; and

the  Environmen:al  and  Social  Impact  Assessment,  the  Environmental
the  Environmental
and  Social  Management  Framework 
Management  P  an), 
the
Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework.

(including 
the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and 

2. 

The  Operational  Manua  may  be  amended  by  the  Borrower  from  time  to  time
with  the  prior  approval  of the  Bank.  In  case  of  any  conflict  or  inconsistency
between  the  terms  of th  s  Agreement  and  those  of the  Operational  Manual,  the
terms of this Agreement  3hall prevail.

D, 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

E. 

Municipal  Road  Subprojectg

Prior  to  the  approval  by  the  Bank  of any  given  Municipal  Road  Subproject,  the
Borrower,  through  SEPL AN,  shall furnish  to  the  Bank,  an application  containing
the  following  information  arid  documentation  with  respect  to  such  Municipal
Road  Subproject:

(a) 

a  copy  of  the  relevant  municipality's  development  agenda,  including  a
descr .ption of tho  participatory  mechanisms  followed  for the  preparation
of such  agenda  (such  as the  minutes  of discussions  on  the  development
agenca  by  the  relevant  municipality,  the  minutes  of  discussions  on  the
Borrcwer's Regi)nal  Development  Agenda);

- 10  -

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

the  priority  list  of t  ie  road  sections  to  be  included  in  such  Municipal
Road  Subproject,  including the minutes of the  public discussions  held for
its preparation,  !igned  by  the participants  or their  representatives;

the  commitments  of  each  party 

)etw.en  the  Borrower  and  the  relevant  municipality
an  agreement 
such
detailing 
municipality's  participatory  planning  and  management  capacity,  as well
as providing  for  the  financing  and  carrying  out  by  the  Borrower  of such
Municipal  Road  Subproject,  and the  collaboration  to  be provided  by such
municipality  in  :onn.ction thereto;

strengthen 

to 

the
if  applicable,  a  copy  of  a  cooperation  agreement  amongst 
municipalities  that  share  a  common  border  so  as  to  create  an  inter-
municipal  conEortium  for  purposes  of  undertaking  maintenance  of
municipal  roads;

the bidding documents  for the  pertinent  Municipal  Road  Subproject;

such  other  infor nation as  the  Bank shall  reasonably  request.

F. 

Environmental  and  Soial Provisions

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  SEPLAN,  and  with  the  assistance  of the  pertinent
Participating  Entity,  implement  and/or  cause  to  be  implemented  Parts  I  (other
than Parts  1.2  and  1.4)  and  :  of the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  the  Indigenous  Peoples
Planning  Framework  aad  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (including  the
Process Framework)  and  in a manner  acceptable  to the Bank.

The Borrower  shall,  through  SEPLAN  and  SEINFRA,  implement the  State  Road
Rehabilitaticn  Subproje,.ts  I listed  in the  Operational  Manual  in accordance  with
in  a  manner
the  provisions  of  the  Environmental  Management  Plan,  and 
acceptable to the  Bank.

Upon  the  approval  of  any  given  Municipal  Road  Subproject,  State  Road
Improvement  Subproje .t, or  State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subproject  I (as  provided
in  Section  F.7  of this  S-hedile),  State  Road Rehabilitation  Subproject  II  or  any
works to  be carried  out under Part 2.1  (iv)  of the Project,  and prior to  the carrying
out  of any  of said  Sub )rojects  or  works,  the  Borrower,  through  SEPLAN  and
to  be  carried  out  an
SEINFRA, 
environmental/social  as;essnient  of the  pertinent  works,  and  based  on  the  results
of  said  asscssment  as  determined  by  the  Bank,  approve  and/or  cause  to  be
a  pest
approved  an  environmental/social  management  plan 
management  plan,  if  applicable)  or  similar  environmental  or  social  safeguards
instrument,  acceptable  t)  the  Bank,  for  each  Subprojects  or works  (which plan  or

(a)  carry  out  and/or  cause 

(including 

shall: 

- 11-

4. 

5. 

similar  enviionmental/s)cial  safeguards  instrument  shall  be  based  on the  results
of  the  environmentalhocial  assessment  mentioned  herein,  and  the  Bank's
comments  on  the  results  of said  assessment,  if any),  all  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Enviionmental  and  Social  Management  Framework;  and  (b)
license  or
immediately  after  saicd  approval:  (i)  obtain 
to  carry  out  the  pertinent  works  under  the  relevant  type  of
authorization 
Subproject;  and  (ii)  implement  and/or cause  to  be  implemented  (as  the  case  may
be)  the  corresponding  tnvironmental/social  management  plan  (including  a  pest
management  plan,  if  appliable)  or  similar  environmental/social  safeguards
instrument,  in  accordance  with  its terms,  and  in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

the  environmental 

Without  limitation  to  the  pertinent  provisions  of this Agreement  in  respect  of any
given  Municipal  Road  Sibproject,  State  Road  Improvement  Subproject  or  State
Road  Rehabiltation  Subproject  I (as  provided  in  Section  F.7  of this  Schedule)  or
State Road  Rehabilitation  Subproject  II  in which  works are  involved, or any  works
to  be  carried  out  under  Part  2.1  (iv)  of the  Project,  and  if  as  a  result  of  the
definition  of the  precise  sitting  alignments  it  is  determined  by  the  Borrower  that
Resettlement  will  be  involved,  the  Borrower,  through  SEPLAN  and  SEINFRA,
shall:  (a) priot  to  the  carrying  out of any  said  Subprojects  or works, prepare  and/or
cause  to be pre,pared  and  furnish to  the Bank,  a resettlement  plan, acceptable  to  the
Bank  (which  plan  shal  be  consistent  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of  the
Resettlement  Policy  Fran ework);  and  (b)  thereafter,  implement  and/or cause  to  be
implemented,  said  resettl.ment  plan  in  accordance  with  its terms  and  in  a  manner
acceptable  to 1he  Bank.

With  respect  to  the  carrying  out of any  given  Municipal  Road  Subproject,  State
Road  Improvement  Subproject  or  State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subproject  I  (as
provided  in  Section  F.7  of this  Schedule),  State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subproject
II, or  any  works  to  be  carried  out under  Part  2.1  (iv)  of the  Project,  or  any  pilot
activity  under  Part  2.3  (ii)  (B)  and/or  (iii)  (B)  of  the  Project  and  when  so
determined  by  the  Borrower  as  set  forth  in  the  IPPF  and  the  Environmental  and
Social  Manaoement  Fra-nework,  the  Borrower,  through  SEPLAN  and  SEINFRA,
shall:  (a)  prior  to  the  c.rrying  out  of  any  of said  type  of  Subprojects,  works  or
pilot  activities,  prepare  and/or  cause  to  be  prepared  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  an
Indigenous  Peoples'  Plan, acceptable  to  the  Bank (which plan  shall  be  consistent
with  the  pertinent  prcvisicns  of  the  IPPF);  and  (b)  thereafter,  adopt  and
implement  (and/or  cause  to  be  adopted  and  implemented)  said  Indigenous
Peoples'  Plan  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

6. 

The  Borrower,  through  SEPLAN,  shall  ensure,  and/or  cause  the  Participating
Entities  to  ensure,  that  :he  terms  of reference  for  any  consultancy  in  respect  of
any  Project activity  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  following  its  review  thereof
and,  to  that  end,  such  terms  of reference  shall  duly  incorporate  the  requirements

- 12  -

7. 

8, 

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

of the  applicable  Bank  Safeguards  Policies,  as  applied  to  the  advice  conveyed
through  such technical  asistance.

Without  limitation  to  tle  provisions  of  Section  3.01  (a)  of  the  Project,  and  if
during  Project  implementation  the  Borrower  decides  to  replace  one  or  more  of
the  State Road  Rehabilitition  Subprojects  I listed  in the Operational  Manual  , the
Borrower, through  SEPIAN  and  SEINFRA,  shall:  (a) furnish  to  the Bank,  for  its
approval,  the  new  State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subprojects  I; and  (b)  immediately
after the  approval  of said  new  State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subprojects  I, carry  out
said new State  Road Reh abili tation  Subprojects  I in accordance  with the pertinent
provisions  in  this Agreenent.

Without  limitation  to  the  pertinent  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  when  so
determined  by  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of any
pilot activity  under Part  2.3  (ii)  (B)  and/or (iii)  (B)  of the  Project that may  cause
an  adverse  impact  on  tl.e  livelihoods  of  the  affected  persons  as  a  result  of  an
involuntary  restriction  o  access  to  natural  resources  in  legally  designated  parks
and  protected  areas  (inc  uding  reserves)  under  said  Parts  of the  Project,  prepare
and  furnish  to  the  Bank  an  action  plan  consistent  with  the  provisions  of the
Process  Framrework;  and  (b)  immediately  thereafter,  implement  each  action  plan
in accordance  with  its  terms  and  those  of the  PF, and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to
the Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and  Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower,  through  SEPLAN,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the
Project and  prepare  Projoct Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of the General  Conditions  and  on the  basis  of the performance  indicators  set
forth  in  the  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of
one  calendar  semester,  and  shall be  furnished  to the  Bank not  later than  forty  five
(45)  days  after the  end of the  )eriod  covered  by  such report.

Financial Management  Financial Reports and  Audits

The  Borrowcr,  through  SEP LAN,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financial  maragement  s3 stem  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09
of the  General  Conditions.

Without  limiation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  SEPLAN,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty  five
(45)  days  aftcr  the end  o:'each  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the
Project covering the  quarter,  in form and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

- 13  -

3 

A. 

1 

2 

13. 

2. 

The  Borrower,  through  SEPLAN,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the  przvisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit  of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period  of one fiscal year  of
the Borrower,  commen  ing with the  fiscal  year in which  the  first withdrawal  was
made  under  the  Project.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period
shall  be  furnished  to  tl,e  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end  of such
period.

Section M. 

Procurement

General

Works,  Goods,  and  Non-Consulting  Services.  All  works,  goods  and  non-
consulting  services  reqt ired  for the Project and  to be  financed out of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  pi ocured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in Section  I of tho  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and to
be financed  out of the r roceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitaliZed  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  mett.ods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
in  the  Procurement
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Guidelines,  ar Consultant Guidelines,  as the  case  may be.

Particular  Nlethods  of Procurement  of  Works,  Goods  and  Non-Consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
,Aorks,  goods  anl  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
2  below, 
contracts awarded  on  tfe basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Works,  Goods  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The  followi ig table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other than
International  Competilive  3idding,  which  may  be  used  for  works,  goods  and
non-consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under whicl  such  mett ods may be  used.

- 14  -

Procurement Method
(a) Nationa  Competitive  Bidding,  including  in respect  of goods,  works and  non-
consulting  service.;,  concorrencia (set  forth  in  the  Guarantor's  Law  no.
8.666  of  June  2  1,  1993), 
in  respect  of  goods  and  non-
consultanting  servic-es, pregdo eletr6nico (set  forth  in  the  Guarantor's  Law
No.  10520  of  July  17,  2002),  under  'COMPRASNET',  the  procurement
portal  of the  Guarantor,  or any  other  e-procurement  system  approved  by  the
Bank),  subject  to  the  following  additional  procedure,  namely,  that  the
bidding documents  shall  be acceptable  to the  Bank.

including, 

(b)  Shoppiig.
(c)  Direct contracting.

C. 

1 

2 

Particular Methods  of .rocuarement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-bastd  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cos:-bas.d  Selection.

Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services.  The  following table
the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
specifies 
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall specify  the circumstances  under which  such  methods  may be used.

Procuremeat Method
(a) Quality  Based  Selection
(b)  Selection  under a FiKed  Budget
(c)  Least  Cc st Selectior
(d)  Selection  based on the Consultants'  Qualifications
(e)  Single-source  Selec1ion
(f) Procedures  set  forth  n Paragraphs  5.1  and  5.3  of the Consultant Guidelines  for

the Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(g)  Sole  Source  Proced ires  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants  set  forth

in jaragaph  5.6  of :he  Consultant  Guidelines

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan s[ all  se-t  forth those  contracts  which  shall  be subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

- 15  -

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of  Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1I 

2. 

The  Borrowcr  may  wit[ draw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
2006,  as  revised  from  time  t 
Agreement  pirsuant to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set
forth  in  the table  in paragraph  2 below.

The  followin,o  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  prcceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  -ach  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category.

Category 

Amount  of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Goods,  works,

consultants'  services  and
non-consulting  services
for:

(a) Parts  1.1  and  1.2.  of 
the Project;  and

(b)  Part  1.z-  of the  Project 

233,000,000 

7,000,000 

100%

80%

- 16-

Category 

Amount  of the 

Percentage  of

Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Expenditures  to  be
financed
(inclusive  of  Taxes)

(2)  (a) Gocds, consultants'
service:  and non-
consulting services  and
Training  for Parts 2.1  (i)
through (iii),  2.2, 2.3  and
2.4  of thee  Project

(b)  Works,  consultani  s'
servicons  and non-
consul[ting  servicc s,5,0010
under  Part  2.1  (iv)  of 
the Project

(3)  Goods,  consultants'
services,  and  non-
consulting  services7, 
Training  and Opei-ating 
Costs  fDr Part  3 of the
Project

(4)  FotcdFe7000 
rcnd 

(exp 

50ssed  inu 

8,  000,000 

%

100%
10

Amount  payable
pursuant  to  Section  2.03
of this  Agreement  in
accordance  with  Section
2.07  (b)  of the General
Conditions
Amount payable
pursuant to Section  2.07
(c)  of this  Agreement

(5)  Premium  for  Interost 

Rate  Caps  and  Intcrest 
Rate  Collars 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

0 

300,000,000

For the purposes  of this  tablw,i

a3. 

(a) 

the  term  "Op2rating  Costs"  means  reasonable  recurrent  expenditures
incurred  by  the  Boirower  in  connection  with  the  daily  operation  of the
Project,  includ  ng,  nter alia, travel  costs  and  per diem,  maintenance  of
related  to  strengthening
equipment,  off ce supplies  and  materials,  costs 
communicatior  and  disseminating  results,  which  expenditures  would  not
have  been incurred  absent the  Project;  and

- 17  -

(b) 

the  term  "Trainng"  teans  reasonable  expenditures  (other than those  for
consultants'  seriices) 
incurred  by  the  Borrower  in  connection  with  the
carrying out of workshops  and 
training  preparation  and  administration
under  the  Project,  including,  inter alia, travel  costs,  and  per diem  of
train.-es,  course  fees,  rental  of training facilities  and purchase  of  training
materials.

B1.  Withdrawal  Condition;;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  prior  to  the  date of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals
up  to an aggregate  amount  nct to  exceed  US$60,000,000  equivalent may  be made
for  payments  made  prioi'  to this  date but on or  after February  10,  2012  (but in  no
case  more  tian  one  year  Frior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement)  for  Eligible
Expenditures.

The Closing  Date  is  March  31,  2019.  The  Bank  shall  only  grant  an  extension  of
the  Closing  Date  after  the  Guarantor's  Ministry  of Finance  has  informed  the
Bank that  it  agrees  with  ;uch  extension.

Section  V. 

Othc r Undertaldng

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  during  Project  implementation,  a  procurement
specialist  for  SEINFRA  and  a  procurement  specialist  for  SEPLAN,  both  under
terms of reference  satisfi.ctory to  the Bank.

By  October  31,  2015,  or  when  Loan  disbursements  have  reached  50%  of  the
Loan  amount,  whichever  is  first,  and  without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of
Section  5.08  'b)  of the  General  Conditions,  the Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

carry  out jointly with the  Bank,  a mid-term  review  (Midterm  Review)  on
the p-ogress  in the implementation  of the  Project  ; and

immediately 
following  such  Midterm  Review,  act  promptly  and
diligently  to  take  any  corrective  action  as  shall  be  agreed  between  the
Borrower  and  Bank.

1. 

2. 

1I 

2. 

- 18-

cc0

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  followirg  table  set.  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Instalhrent  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
principal  amount  of  the
withdrawn  as of the  first Principal Payment Date, the 
Loan  repayable  by  the  BoIrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment Date,  such  repayable  amount  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

On each  May  15  and  Nvember  15

Beginning November  15,  2017
through May  1i,  2036 

On November  15,  2036 

2.56%
2.72%

2 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal Payment  Date shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Princ  pal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loati  Balance  as  of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  1
of th  s Schedule

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  wi:hdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  ;uch withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the original  Installment  Share  specified  in the  table  in paragraph  I of this
ScheJule  for  sail Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shaies  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amou.its  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred to  i:  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two calendar  months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the

-19-

principal  amouints  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Prin.cipal  Paym(nt  late  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Datc  following  :he  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  aly  time  tho  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  cn or after the respective  Principal Payment  Date, the
to  any
sub-paragraph 
provisions  of  suclt 
withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such billing  system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  ol  all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  tho  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  oi  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  deterniinec.  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  ra:e  that  reflcts  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
inde - the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
payable  by  the  Bank 
Conversion;  or (ii)  if th-  Bank  so  determines  in accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  1he  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  3alance  is  denominated  in more than  one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions of this  Sc hedule  shall apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loa r  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each such  amount.

- 20  -

Sction  I. 

Defiitions

APPENDIX

1 

2 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guid elinei"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  C)rruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Bank  Safeguards  Policies"  means 
the  Bank's  operational  policies  and
procedures  set  forth  in  the Bank's  Operational  Manual  under  OP/BPs 4.01,  4.04,
4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  and  4.37  as  said  manual 
is  published  under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth  in the  table in  Section  IV  of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  20,  1.

"CREMA  Contract"  means  a  multi-year  contract  under  Part  1.2  of the  Project,
entered  into  by the  Borrower  through  SEINFRA  with a  private  sector  contractor,
which  contract  obligates  the  private  sector  contractor  to  undertake  all  phases  of
road  rehabililation  and  naintanance  work  as  a  single  package,  from  design  and
programming  of the  wor  s,  through  the  execution  of such  works,  with  respect  to
identified  portion  c f  the  corresponding  Borrower-managed  paved  road
an 
network.

"Cooperation  Agreemen:"  mans  any  of  the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section
I.B.1  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Environmental  and  Sooial  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Borrower's  fi-amework,  icceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and  available  to  the
public  on  the  website  h'tp://www.seplan.to.gov.br  on  January  17,  2012,  which
contains,  inter alia, (a) t ie  environmental  and  social  principles  and  policies  that
shall  apply  to the  implerr enta:ion  of Parts  1 (other than  Parts  1.2  (a))  and  2  of the
Project,  incluJing  provis  ons  For the  carrying  out of the  respective  environmental
and  social  assessments;  (b)  the  guidelines  and  procedures  to  be  followed  in
connection  with  natural  habitats,  forests,  pest  management,  chance  finding  of
cultural  property,  indigtnous  peoples,  involuntary  resettlement  and  safety  of
dams  in  respect  of  Municipal  Road  Subproject  and  State  Road  Improvement
Subprojects;  and  (c)  the Environmental  Management  Plan.

-21  -

8. 

9 

1.). 

1L. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

1.7. 

in 

the  ESVF,  which  contains 

"Environmental  Manage meni  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's plan,  acceptable  to the
Bank,  published  and  made  available  to  the  public  on  January  17,  2012,  and
included 
results  of  the  Borrower's
environmental  assessm  nt  of  the  same  date  and  the  mitigation  measures  to
mitigate,  prevent  and  manage  environmental  and  social 
impacts  and  risks
associated  w:th  the  carry ing  out  of State  Road  Rehabilitation  Subprojects  I under
Part  1.2 (a)  of the Project.

the 

"General  Conditions"  rieans  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Developmen  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Plinning  Framework"  or  "IPPF"  means  the  Borrower's
framework,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and  available  to  the  public  on  the
website  http://www.seplan.to 
v.b  on  January  17,  2012,  which  sets  forth  the
principles  and  policies that  shall  apply to  the  preparation  and  carrying out  of any
indigenous  peoples  dev .loprnent  plan  that  may  be  required  under  the  Project
(other than  under Part  1.2.  (a)  of the  Project).

"Municipal  Road  Subprcject"  any of the  investments  referred  to  in Part  1.1  of the
Project.

the  Borrower's
"Naturatins"  means 
environmentEl  agency  a;  existing  and  operating  under  the  Borrower's  Law  No
858,  dated  July 26,  1996  and  Decree No.  311,  dated August  23,  1996.

institato  Natureza  do  Tocantins, 

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  referred  to  in Section  I.C.  of Schedule 2
to  this  Agreement,  dated  June  11,  2012,  as the  same  may  be  amended  from  time
to time with  the agreement  of the Bank.

"Participating  Entity"  means  SEINFRA,  SEMADES,  SEAGRO,  SEDUC,
Naturatins  and  Ruraltins

"PMU"  or  "?roject  Maiagement  Unit"  means  Unidade de  Gerenciamento do
Projeto, the  unit  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement
established by  the Borrower's  Decree No. 4388,  dated  September 2,  2011.

"Procuremen:  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Sen ices  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procuremen:  Plan"  means 
:he  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  April  2,  2012,  aid  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  arid  paragrap'i  1.24  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall be
updated  from  time to  time  in accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

- 22  -

lqGfN1,

1:3. 

19. 

20. 

2 1. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

"Process  Framework"  or  "PF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework  acceptable  to
the  Bank  (included  in  tie Resettlement  Policy  Framework)  published  and  made
available  to  the  public  on  January  17,  2012,  which  sets  forth,  inter  alia,  the
specific  measures to  cotipensate for the loss of assets  and associated  income,  and
puts  in place  grievance  resolution  mechanisms  in  order  to  resolve the  issues that
may arise during the  im  lementation  of the pilot activities to  be carried out under
Parts  2.  3 (ii)  (B)  and (iii)  (B)  of the Project.

"Resettlement"  means  te impact  of:  (i) an  involuntary  taking  of land  under  the
Project,  which  taking causes  affected  persons  to  have their:  (a) income  source  or
means  of livelihood  adversely  affected  (whether  or not  the affected  persons  must
move  to  another  locat  on);  or  (b)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land
(including  premises,  agi icultural and  grazing  land) or any  other fixed  or movable
asset  acquired  or  pos;essed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (c)  access  to
productive  assets adven ely affected,  temporarily  or permanently;  or (d)  business,
occupation,  work  or place  of residence  or habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily
or permanently;  or  (ii)  En  involuntary restriction  of access  to  natural  resources  in
legally designated  parks  and  protected  areas  (including  reserves) which  causes  an
adverse  impact on the  livelihoods  of the affected  persons.

"Resettlement  Policy  F ramework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  document
published  ar.d  available to  the  public on  the  website http://www.  seplan.to.gov.br
on  January  17,  2012,  specifying  the  population  resettlement  policies,  planning
institutional  arrangements,  procurement  arrangements  and  design
principles, 
criteria that shall  apply  t)  the preparation  and carrying out of the resettlement plans
for  the  resettlement  of  population  that  may  be  required  under  Municipal  Road
Subprojects,  State  Road  Improvement  Subprojects,  State  Road  Rehabilitation
Subprojects  I (as  provided  in  Section  F.7  of  this  Schedule)  and  State  Road
Rehabilitaticn  Subprojects  II or under Part  2.1  (iv) of the Project, and including  the
Process Framework.

"Ruraltins"  means  Instituto ae Desenvolvimento Rural do Estado de  Tocantins, the
Borrower's  rural  deve opment  agency  as  existing  and  operating  under  the
Borrower's Law No. 20,  dated April  21,  1989.

"Regional  Development  Agenda"  means  the  development  agenda  for  the
Borrower's  regions  as  defined  in  the  Borrower's  four-year  development  plan  for
2012-2015  (Plano Plur,anual-PPA 2012-2015).

"SEAGRO"  means  S  cretaria de  Agricultura, Pecudria e  Desenvolvimento
Agricola,  the  Borrower's  agriculture,  livestock  and  agricultural  development
secretariat or any  sucessor thereto  satisfactory to the Bank.

"SEDUC"  means  Secretaria da Educaqdo, the  Borrower's  education  secretariat
or any suces sor thereto  satisactory  to the Bank.

- 23  -

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

3:. 

"SEINFRA"  means  Secretaria de  Infraestrutura, the  Borrower's  infrastructure
secretariat  or  any  sucess:r the-reto  satisfactory to  the Bank.

"SEMADES"  means  Secretaria  do  Meio  Ambiente  e  Desenvolvimento
sustainable  development
Sustentdvel, 
secretariat or  any  sucess:r the,reto satisfactory to  the  Bank.

the  Borr  wer's  environmental  and 

"SEPLAN"  means  Secretaria do  Planejamento e  Modernizaqdo  da  Gestdo
Ptblica,  the  Borrowe  's  planning  and  public  management  modernization
secretariat  or  any sucessDr thereto  satisfactory to the  Bank.

"State  Roads  Rehabilitation  Subproject  I" means  any  of the  investments  referred
to  in Part  1.2.  (a)  of the  3roject.

"State  Roads  Rehabilita:ion  Subproject  II"  means  any of the  investments  referred
to  in Part  1.2.  (b)  of the  Project.

"State  Roads  Improvement  Subproject"  means  any  of the  investments  referred  to
in Part  1.3.  of the  Project.

"Subproject"  means  an/  Municipal  Road  Subproject,  State  Road  Improvement
I,  or  State  Roads
Subproject,  State  Roads  Rehabilitation  Subproject 
Rehabilitaticn  Subproje,t  II.

- 24  -

