"ouums

LOAN  NUMBER  8213-ID

Loan Agreement

(National Community Empowerment  Program
in Urban Areas  for 2012-2015)

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  December 

2S 

, 2012

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8213-ID

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").

and 

f)ecembec 

,  2012,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  INDONESIA
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

The Borrower and  the Bank  hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in the  Appendix  to  this Agreement)  constitute  an

integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement
have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or  in  the Appendix  to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower,  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of two  hundred  sixty-six  million  United
States  Dollars (US$266,000,000),  as  such amount  may be converted  from time to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  2.07  of
this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in financing  the project  described  in  Schedule  I  to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV

of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee not
later than sixty (60) days  after the Effective  Date.

2 of 34

2.04.  The interest  pzyable by th.  Borrower  for each Interest  Period  shall be  at a rate equal  to
the  Reference  Rate  for  t1e  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that
upon  a  Conversion  of at  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the
interest  payab.e  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on such  amount  shall
be determined  in  accordat ce  % ith the  relevant provisions  of Article  IV of the  General
Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of
thirty  days,  then  the interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be calculated  as
provided  in Section 3.02 (-) of the General  Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment Dates  are April  15  and  October  15  in each year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of t ie Loan shall  be repaid  in  accordance  with the provisions  of

Schedule  3 to  this Agreerr ent.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may at a:y time request  any of the  following Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change
of the Loan Curreincy of all or any portion of the  principal amount  of the Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the
interes:  rate  basis  ipplizable  to:  (A)  all  or any portion  of the principal  amount
of the  Loan  withd-awn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,
or  vice  versa;  (B i  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate
and  the  Variable  S;pread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate
and the Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the
Loan  withdrawn  ,nd  cutstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of
limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  by the
establishment  of En  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the  Variable
Rate or the Refere ice Rate.

(b) 

Any  cDnversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Lank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditior s,  and  shall be effected  in  accordance  with the provisions  of
Artick:  IV of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

3  of 34

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to the objective of the Project.  To this end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  the  Ministry  of  Public  Works,  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Article  V  of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except
as the  Borrower  and the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  the Borrower  shall ensure that the
Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

The  Effectiveness Deadline  is  the date ninety (90) days  after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01.  The Borrower's  Representative  is the  Minister of Finance.

5.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Finance
Directorate  General  of Debt  Management
Gedung  Frans  Seda
Jalan DR.  Wahidin Raya  No.  1
Jakarta  10710
Indonesia

Cable: 

FINMINISTRY  45799 
Jakarta

Facsimile:

62-21-381-2859

4 of 34

5.13.  The  Bank's Ac.dress  is:

International Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Tel(:x: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Jakarta, Republic  of Indonesia,  as of the day  and year  first  above written.

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

Authorized  Representative

Robert  Pakpahan

Expert  Staff  of  the  MOF
on  State  Revenue
With  Full  Mandate
as  DG  of  Debt Management

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

'fO6AA 

P

AcTitG 

couWY  DfXECIDN, 

IvooriA

By

Name: 

Title: 

By

Name: 

Title: 

5  of34

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the Project  is to  support  the Republic  of Indonesia  to ensure  the  urban
local  governance  and  living

poor  in  Participating  Kelurahans  benefit  from 
conditions.

improved 

The Project  consists of the following  parts:

Part 1:  Capacity Building  for Communities  and Local Governments

Carrying  out  community  development  capacity  building  training  and  workshops  and
conducting  facilitation  for:

BKMs,  focused  on  the preparation  of Community  Development  Plans,  use  of
Kelurahan  Grants  and  implementation  of Sub-projects,  and  for  BKMs  that
have  received.  Kelurahan  Grants,  assistance  to  support  consolidation  of
various  poverty  alleviation  and  community driven  development  programs;

community  groups 
volunteers  and  Local  Government  officials 
planning  and participation  in and  monitoring of Sub-projects;  and

in  Participating  Kelurahans 

including  community
in  community  development

Revolving  Loan  Funds  unit  staff to  support  well-performing  Revolving  Loan
Funds, under the Revolving  Loan Funds  development  strategy.

Part 2:  Kelurahan Grants

Providing  Kelurahan  Grants  to  Participating  Kelurahans  to  co-finance  Sub-
projects  identified  in Community  Development  Plans,  which  consist  of block
grants  for:  (i) infrastructure  investment  based  on proposals  from  community
groups  consistent  with  the  priorities  in  the Community  Development  Plans;
(ii)  income  generating  activities  undertaken  by  community  groups  supported
by Revolving  Loan  Funds;  and (iii)  social programs to benefit  the poorest  and
most vulnerable  groups or individuals;  and

Providing  Kelurahan  Grants  to  Participating  Kelurahans  to  co-finance  Sub-
projects  identified  in  Community  Development  Plans,  which consist  of block
grants  for programs  targeted to  the needs  of specific  areas,  including:  (i) pilot
interventions  for  women's  groups 
(ii)  spatial
development  programs  for neighborhood infrastructure  development  targeting
the  poorest;  and  (iii)  interventions  to  strengthen  the  livelihood  of  poor
comnunities.

to  enhance  participation; 

6 of 34

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

Pv rt 3:  Implementation Support and Technical  Assistance

(a) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of staff of the Project  Management  Unit,  Province-
level  government  agencies,  Participating  Kecamatans,  Participating  Kotas,
in  Project
Participating  Kabupatens 
implementation  ar,d  monitoring,  including  through the  National  Management
Consultants,  Over;ight Consultants,  City Coordinators,  and  Facilitators.

and  Participating  Kelurahans 

(b) 

Carryiig out  and  supporting monitoring  and  evaluation.

Part 4.  Contingency  for Disaste-  Response

Providing  pre:aredness  aid  rapid  response  measures  to  address  disaster,  emergency
and/or  catastr:phic  events,  as  needed,  at  the  Kelurahan  level  through  Sub-projects
and/or  using the Project  implementation  arrangements.

7 of 34

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements.

A. 

1I 

At the national  level, the  Borrower, through  MPW,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

ensure  that the Project  shall be  implemented  under the umbrella  of PNPM,  and
subject  to the overall guidance  of Pokja Pengendali  PNPM;

maintain,  until  completion  of the  Project:  (i)  the  PMU,  established  in  MPW,
headed  by  an  appropriately  qualified  project  manager,  and  responsible  for  the
management  and  monitoring of the Project;  and  (ii)  the  Central  PIU  (Satker),
established  in  MPW,  responsible  for day-to-day  implementation  of the Project
including  recruitment  of National  Management  Consultants  and  Oversight
Consultants  and  production  of reports  on the  progress  of the  Project, 
in  each
case,  with  a  mandate,  composition  and  terms  of reference  as  set  out  in  the
Project  Operational  Manual  and  acceptable  to  the Bank and  the Borrower;

(c) 

ensure  that  each  of the  PMU  and  the  Central  PIU  (Satker)  are provided  at  all
times  with  adequate  funds  and  other  resources  and  staffed  by  qualified
personnel  in  adequate  numbers  as  shall  be  necessary  to  accomplish  the
objectives  of the Project;  and

(d) 

ensure  coordination,  as necessary,  with  the Pokja Pengendali  PNPM.

2. 

The Borrower,  through MPW, shall:

to  be  established,  prior 

level  of  each  Province,  cause 

at  the 
the
commencement  of Project  activities  in  each  such  Province  and  thereafter
maintain  until  completion  of the Project  a  Provincial  PIU (Satker),  responsible
for  day-to-day 
the
Facilitators  and  City  Coordinators  and  managing  community  training,  in  both
cases  with  a  mandate,  composition  and  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the
Bank;

implementation  of  the  Project, 

including  recruiting 

to 

by no  later than November  30  in  each calendar  year of Project  implementation,
commencing  on  November  30,  2012,  identify  each  Participating  Kecamatan,
Participating  Kota,  Participating  Kabupaten  and  Participating  Kelurahan,  in
each case  in accordance  with  the Project  Operational  Manual;

8 of 34

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(a) 

to 

the  commencement  of  Project  activities 

at the level  of each  Participating  Kota and  Participating Kabupaten,  cause to be
in  such
established,  prior 
Participating  Kota  and  Participating  Kabupaten  and  therafter  maintain  until
completion  of the  ?roject,  a  Kota/Kabupaten  PIU  (Satker),  responsible  for:  (i)
day-to-day  implen  entation  of the  Project,  including  channeling  of Kelurahan
Grants,  with  a  madate,  composition  and  terms  of reference  as  set  out  in the
the
Project  Operatior al  Manual; 
Kabupaten/Kota  Poverty Alleviation  Coordination  Team;
at  the  .evcl of the  Part cipating  Kecamatan,  maintain  until  completion  of the
Project,  a  PJOK  as  a  Sub-project  implementation  unit,  with  a  mandate,
:erm  of reference  as  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational
composition  and 
Manual,  to be resp>nsitle  for implementation  of the Project  and  administration
of proposals  from 13KMs  and Sub-project  Agreements;

(ii)  ensuring  coordination  with 

and 

the 

level  of  each  Participating  Kelurahan,  establish  prior 

the
at 
in  that  Participating  Kelurahan,  and
commencement  of  any  Sub-project 
thereafter  maintain  unti[  completion  of the  Project, a BKM,  legally  established,
whose  mandate,  cormpc sition  and  terms  of reference  shall  include  a  financial
management  unit  or specialist  as set  out  in the  Project  Operational  Manual,  to
be responsible  for  trplementation of the  Project at the Kelurahan-level;  and

to 

ensure that  each P. -ovincial PIU  (Satker),  Kota/Kabupaten  PIU  (Satker),  PJOK
and  BKM  shall  be  provided  with  adequate  funds  and  other  resources,  and
supported  by  qualified  technical,  financial  and  administrative  personnel  in
adequate  numbers  as  needed to  accomplish the objectives  of the Project.

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

reporting 

doumentation; 

the  description  of: 

implementation  arrangements; 

adopt  and,  therea  ler  ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in  accordance
with,  a  Project  Dperitional  Manual,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall
the
include 
procur-ment  proc<dures  set forth  in  Section III of this  Schedule  2  and  standard
financial
procur.ment 
management  procedures  and  audit  procedures  as  set  forth  in  Section  II of this
Schedule  2; (iv) criteria  for Eligible  Expenditures,  including without limitation,
the
under  Sub-projects; 
Environmental  Guidelines  and  the  environmental  criteria  applicable  to  Sub-
project  design  in.-luding  environmental  impact  mitigation,  the  Indigenous
Peoples  Planning  Framework,  and  the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement
Policy  Framewor:,  including  the  technical  guidelines  for  implementation  of
such  frameworks;  (vii)  the Better  Governance  Action Plan;  (viii) maintenance
provis:.ons  for woiks to be carried  out  under a  Sub-projects;  (ix)  the criteria  for
the selection  of St b-projects,  as well  as  the terms  and  conditions governing  the

the  Project  performance 

requirements, 

indicators; 

(vi) 

(v) 

.9  of 34

B. 

1 

Implementation Arrangements

The Borrower, through lMPW,  shall:

and  Local  Govermnent  Participation  meeting 

Kelurahan  Grants 
the
requirements  set  out  in  Annex  I  to  this  Schedule;  (x)  with  respect  to  Sub-
projects  with  activities  supported  by  Revolving  Loan  Funds,  criteria  for
operation  of Revolving  Loan  Funds,  criteria  for  operation  of Revolving  Loan
Funds,  including  requirements  for  formation  of community  groups  to  receive
such  funds  and  types  of income  generating  activities  to  be  undertaken  using
such  funds;  and  (xi)  the  Operational  Guidelines  for  Monitoring  and Evaluation
of PNPM;

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provisions  of the  Project
Operational  Manual  without  the prior  written  agreement  of the  Borrower  and
the Bank;

ensure that  the Project  Operational  Manual  is  made available,  at  all times  until
completion  of the  Project,  to  Oversight  Consultants,  City  Coordinators  and
Facilitators  and  Participating  Kelurahans,  and  applied  in  the  carrying  out  of
Sub-projects;  and

with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  update  the
Project  Operational  Manual,  as  necessary,  at  all  times  ensuring  compliance
thereof with the terms  of this Agreement.

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  (A) 
Operational Manual;  and  (B)  those of this Agreement,  the latter shall prevail.

the  Project

2. 

3. 

For the purposes  of providing  Kelurahan  Grants  under the Project,  the Borrower  shall
only  submit  applications  for  withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  to
Category  (1)  in  the  Table  in  Section  IV.A  of this  Schedule  to  finance  Sub-projects
prepared  and  selected  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  set  forth  in  Annex  I  to  this
Schedule  and the Project  Operational  Manual.

In  carrying  out  Part  2  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  prior  to
participating in  the Project,  a Participating Local Government  has:

agreed  in  writing  to  carry  out  activities  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with
procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  included  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual;

taken  all steps required  to  make available  the Local Government  Participation;
and
published  a list  of Project  Kelurahans  in  accordance  with the  criteria  set  out in
the Project  Operational Manual.

4. 

In  carrying  out  Part  2  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that,  prior  to
participating  in the Project,  a Participating  Kelurahan  has:

10  of 34

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

agreed  in writing  to  carry  out  activities  under  the  Project  in  accordance  with
procedures  acceptUble  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  and  included  in  Project
Operational  Manuel;

established,  through  the  BKM,  a  Project  office  for  purposes  of  Project
coordiration  and  d sburement of  Kelurahan Grants;
adopted,  through  the  3KM,  a  Community  Development  Plan,  or  revised,
through  the  BKM,  a  previous  Community  Development  Plan  meeting  the
requirements  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual  and  identifying  each
Sub-project;  and

through  the  relevant  BKM,  entered  into  a  Sub-project  Agreement  with  the
PJOK :or  each  Sub-project  in  its  Community  Development  Plan  on the terms
and  conditions  set  'orth in Annex  1 to this Schedule  2.

The  Borrowe-  shall  ensure  t'at,  for  purposes  of  Part  2(a)  (ii)  of the  Project,  a
Participating  Kelurahan  s  iall  only  finance  Revolving  Loan  Fund  Sub-projects  if the
BKM  proposed  to  receive  additional  funds  to  a  Revolving  Loan  Fund  meets  the
criteria  for  establishment  and  operation  of a  Revolving  Loan  Fund  set  out  in  the
Project  Operational  Manual,  including,  with  respect  to  BKMs  that  have  previously
managed  revolving  funds,  thal  they have  a  repayment  rate  meeting  the requirements
set  out in the Project Opei atior.al Manual.

The Borrower  shall  ensur - tha:,  prior  to undertaking  any  activities under  Part 4  of the
Project:  (a)  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  have  agreed  in  writing  that  a  disaster,
emergency  and/or  catas:rophic  event  requiring  support  for  such  activities  has
occurred;  and  (b) the Bank  and the Borrower  have  entered  into  a written arrangement
and/or  the  Borrower  has  adopted  a  supplement  to  the  Project  Operational  Manual,
satisfactory  to  the  Banl:  which  defines  the  scope  of  such  activities,  and  their
implementation and disbursement  arrangements.

The  Borrower  shall  ensu-e,  al  all  times,  that  public  information,  for  the  purpose  of
disclosing  to  inhabitants  of 2articipating  Kelurahans  all  administrative,  financial,
environmental,  social,  procedural  and  technical  aspects  pertaining  to  the  selection,
including  the  Project
implementation  of  Sub-projects, 
design,  preparation  and 
Operational  Manual,  is  Lvailable  free  of  charge  at  the  government  offices  of the
respective Participating  E elurEhan  and  Participating  Local Government.

The  Borrower,  through  the  PMU  (Satker),  shall,  by  the  date  which  is  no  later  than
three  (3) months  after  the  Effective  Date,  issue  instructions  acceptable  to  the  PMU
(Satker)  and  the  Bank,  to  Local  Governments  of  Participating  Kabupaten  and
Participating  Kota,  and  to  Provincial  governments  and  to  relevant  stakeholders
defining  time periods  wilhin  which  categories  of complaints/cases  must  be  resolved,
to  whom they should  be escalated  if not  resolved  within  such time periods  and what
the  consequeaces  will  bc  if such  cases  are  not  resolved  or  escalated  in  accordance
with such instructions.

11  of34

5. 

6. 

7 

8. 

9. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that,  except  as  the  Bank  and the  Borrower  shall  otherwise
agree  in  writing:  (a)  BPKP  shall  carry  out  a  continuous  audit  of  the  Project  in
partnership  with  the  Inspectorate  General  of  MPW  and  Participating  Local
Government 
inspectorates;  and  (b)  on  terms  of  reference  agreed  among  PMU
(Satker),  BPKP  and  the  Bank,  BPKP  shall,  after  PMU  (Satker)  has  compiled  each
interim  financial report, review  such  interim financial  report  for  each  calendar  quarter
during  Project  implementation  and  shall  provide  to  the  Bank  its  report  of each  such
review  not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the end of each calendar  quarter.

10.  With  respect  to  PNPM  urban  sub-projects  for  which  Facilitators  are  financed  by the
Project  but  the  PNPM  urban  sub-projects  are  themselves  financed  from sources  other
than  the  Loan  and/or  PNPM  urban  sub-projects  for  which  facilitators  are  financed
from  such  other  sources  but  Sub-projects  are  themselves  financed  by  the  Project,  the
PMU  (Satker)  shall:

11. 

C. 

1 .

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

undertake  such  sub-projects 
Manual;

in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operational

retain  responsibility  for 
implementation  of such sub-projects;  and

the  design,  construction,  fiduciary  controls  and

ensure  that  sufficient  funds  are  provided  from  such  other  financing  sources  as
are  necessary to  ensure  completion  of such sub-projects  in accordance  with the
Project Operational  Manual.

The Borrower  shall  ensure that  expenditures  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan,
including  Sub-projects,  shall  not have  been  financed by  sources  other than  the  Loan,
including  from  the  budget  of  the  Borrower  or  from  grant  funding  development
partners.

Environmental and Social  Safeguards

In carrying out Sub-projects,  the  Borrower shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

ensure  that the  proceeds  of Kelurahan  Grants  shall  not  be used  to  finance  the
acquisition  of land;

take  measures  to  avoid  or  minimize  the  acquisition  of  land  or  assets  of
villagers,  and to  avoid the  displacement of such villagers;  and

apply,  and shall  ensure  that each Participating  Kelurahan shall  apply, the Land
Acquisition 
Sub-project
implementation,  including:

and  Resettlement 

Framework 

Policy 

to 

12  of 34

(i) 

(ii) 

taking  all  appropriate  measures  to  avoid  or minimize  the acquisition  of
land or assets of people,and  to avoid  the displacement  of such people;

where the  a;quisition  of land or assets  or the displacement  of people is
unavoidablI  under  a  proposed  Sub-project,  ensuring  that  all  Displaced
Persons  thereunder  shall  have  been  compensated  and  provided  with
resettlemeni  and  rehabilitation  measures  prior to the  implementation  of
such  Sub-p -ojec:  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Land
Acquisition  and  3.esettlement  Policy Framework;  and

(iii) 

in the  case (of the  physical  displacement  of persons  as a  result  of a  Sub-
project:

'A) 

'B) 

'C) 

whe  e  the  affected  people  are  not  physically  displaced  and  less
than ten  (10)  percent  of their  productive assets  are lost  or where
fewer  than two-hundred  (200) people are  involved:  preparing  an
abbreviated  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan  in
accordance  with the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  and  furnishing such plan  to the Bank for written no-
obje,tion prior to the carrying  out of the Sub-project;

where  the  affected  people  are  not  physically  displaced  and  ten
(10)  percnt or more of their productive  assets  are  lost or where
two -hundred  (200)  people or more are  involved: preparing  a full
Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan  in  accordance
with  the  land  Acquisition  and Resettlement  Policy  Framework
and  furnishing  such plan  to  the  Bank  for  written  no-objection
prioi  to the carrying  out of the  Sub-project;

prioi  to  the  carrying  out  of the  Sub-project,  ensuring  that  all
Displaced  Persons  shall  have  been  compensated  and  provided
with  applicable  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  benefits  in
accordance  with the provisions of such plan;  and

(d) 

in the case of voluntary land donation,  ensure that the planning and verification
procedures  for  land  donation  (voluntary  donation  without  compensation  and
voluntary  transfer  with  compensation)  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual  shall  have  been  followed  and  documented  in  a  manner  satisfactory to
the Bank  and the PMU prior to the commencement  of the Sub-Project.

2. 

Where Indigerous  People.  are  present  in,  or have  a  collective  attachment  to,  the  area
of the  Participating  Keluiahan,  the  Borrower  shall  apply,  and  shall  ensure  that  the
Participating  Kelurahan  shall  apply,  the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework  to
Sub-project  implementation,  including:

13  of 34

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

avoiding,  and, 
if  not  possible,  minimizing  cultural,  social  and  economic
adverse  effects  on  Indigenous  Peoples  caused  or  likely  to  be  caused  by  the
Project;

through a process  of free,  prior,  and  informed  consultation  and  participation,
involving  concerned  Indigenous  Peoples  in  the  design  and  implementation  of
Sub-projects  so  as  to  ensure  that  there  is  broad  community  support  for  Sub-
Projects  and  that  the  benefits  received  by  the  Indigenous  Peoples  under  the
Project  are in harmony with their  economic,  social  and cultural preferences  and
protect their  customary user rights;  and

preparing  an Indigenous  Peoples  Plan  for the Participating  Kelurahan  based on
the  foregoing  consultations  and  furnish  such  Indigenous  Peoples  Plan  to  the
Bank  for  written  no-objection  prior  to  carrying  out  the  Sub-projects  in  such
Participating  Kelurahan;  and 
thereafter 
in
accordance  with such plan.

the  Sub-project 

implement 

3. 

In  carrying  out  Sub-projects,  the  Borrower  shall  apply  and  shall  ensure  that  each
Participating  Kelurahan  shall  apply  the  Environmental  Guidelines  and,  where
applicable:  (a)  prepare  and  ensure  that  each  Participating  Kelurahan  shall  prepare  an
Environmental  Management  Plan  for  each  Sub-project  fully  consistent  with  this
Agreement  and  the  Environmental  Giidelines;  (b)  furnish  such  Environmental
Management  Plan to  the  Bank  for written  no-objection  prior to  carrying  out  the  Sub-
project;  and (c)  thereafter  implement  the Sub-project  in accordance  with  such plan.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the
Project  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  (1)
calendar  quarter,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days
after the end of the period covered  by such report.

14  of 34

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

I. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  prepa.e,  under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and
furnish  to  the  Bank,  by  September  30  in  each  year  of  Project  implementation  an
annual  report  integrating  the  results  of  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities
performed  pursuant  to  parigrapl  1 of this Section  II.A,  on the progress  achieved  in the
carrying  out  of the Project  duri-ig  the twelve  (12)  month period  preceding  the  date  of
said  report  (it being under  tood  that  the first  such  annual  report may cover  a period  of
less  than twelve  (12)  montis)  and setting  out the measures  recommended  to ensure the
efficient  carrying  out  of  he  Project  and  the  achievement  of  the  objective  thereof
during the period following such  date.

Financial Management,  Iinancial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of the Project  Report  not
later than  forty.-five  (45) days a:.er the  end of each  calendar  quarter,  interim unaudited
in  form  and  substance
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter, 
satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  such  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  zover  the period of one  (1)  fiscal year of the Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statemeits  fcr  each  such period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not
later than six (6)  months alter the  end of such period.

Section  III.  Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods, works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for  the  I roject  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
shall  be  procured  in  acc(rdance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section I  of the  Procuremeat  Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  Yd1  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of the  proce  ds  cf the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set  forth  or r.-ferred  to  in  Sections  I  and IV of the  Consultant  Guidelines
and  with the provisions  of  his  Section.

15  of 34

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by the Bank  of particular  contracts  refer to
the  corresponding  method  described 
in  Sections  II  and  111  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  or Sections  II,  III,  IV  and V of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the case may
be.

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.
The  following  methods,  other than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may be used  for
procurement  of goods, works and non-consulting  services  for those contracts  specified
in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  following
additional  provisions  set  out  in  Annex  2  to  this  Schedule;  (b)  Shopping;  (c)  Direct
Contracting;  and  (d)  Community  Participation  procedures  which  have  been  found
acceptable  to the World  Bank  as set  out in the Project  Operational  Manual.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  consultants'  services  shall be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of
Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following  methods,
other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of
consultants'  services  for  those  assignments  which  are  specified  in  the  Procurement
Plan:  (a) Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed  Budget;  (c)  Least  Cost
Selection;  (d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source
Selection of consulting  firms;  (f) Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraph  5.2  and  5.3  of the
Consultant  Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-
source procedures  for the Selection of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the
Bank's Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall be subject  to Post Review by the Bank.

16 of 34

Seztion  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withlraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional
provisions  of Article  II  o 
instructions  as  the Bank  shall  s.ecify by  notice  to the  Borrower  (including  the  "World
Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time to
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table in  paragraph 2
below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the proceuds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts
of the  Loan  to  each  Catel;ory,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to be  financed  for
Eligible Experditures  in  each Category.

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

100,000,000 

100% of Kelurahan Grant
amount  disbursed

49,000,000 

100% of Kelurahan  Grant
amount  disbursed

(2)  Goods, consultant:' 

117,000,000 

100%

(1)  (a)  Kelurahan Grants 
under Part 2(a)  of the 
Project

(b)  Kelurahan  Grants 
under Part 2(b)  of the 
Project

services,  non-consulting
services, training  and
workshops*  and
incremental  opera:mg
costs* under  Parts  l and  31
of the Project

(3)  Kelurahan  Grants, goods, 
consultants'  services,
non-consulting  services,
training  and  workshops*
and  incremental  operating
costs* under Part  4 of the
Project

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

266,000,000

17 of 34

0 

100%

For  the  purposes  of this  Table:  (i)  "training  and  workshops"  means  Project-
* 
related  training  and  workshops  conducted  in  the territory  of the  Borrower,  including
purchase  and  publication  of materials,  rental  of facilities,  course  fees,  and  travel  and
subsistence  of trainees;  and  (ii)  "incremental  operating  costs"  means  reasonable  costs
arising  under  the  Project  on  account  of local  contractual  support  staff salaries;  travel
and  other  travel-related  expenditures;  equipment  rental  and  maintenance;  vehicle
operation,  maintenance  and  repair;  office  rental  and  maintenance;  materials  and
supplies;  bank  charges;  advertising  expenses;  and  utilities  and  communications
expenses,  but excluding  salaries  and honoraria  of officials and  staff of the Borrower.

B.  Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

1 .

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this Section, no  withdrawal  shall be made:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

from  the  Loan  Account  until  the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of  the
Front-end  Fee;  or

for payments  made prior to  the date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals
up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  US$  53,200,000  equivalent  may  be
made  for payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or after  March  31,  2012  but
in  no  case  made  more  than  twelve  (12)  months  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement,  for Eligible  Expenditures  under Category  (1)  and  Category  (2);  or

event 

through 

under  Category  (3)  until:  the  Borrower  has  declared  a  disaster,  emergency  or
catastrophic 
the  relevant  national,  Province-  or  Local
Government-level  or  other  authority,  and  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  have
agreed  in  writing  to  address  such  disaster,  emergency  or  catastrophic  event
under  Part  4  of  the  Project  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this
Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date  is December 31,  2015.

18 of 34

A VNEX  I  to SCHEDULE  2

Selection  Criteria for Sub-projects and Kelurahan Grants

A. 

1. 

2. 

Selection  Criteria for Sul-projects

Each  Sub-Project  shall  be  ;elec:ed  from the Community  Development  Plan developed
by  the  BKM  of the Participating  Kelurahan  and  meet  the requirements  set  out  in  the
Project Operational  Manual.

No  Sub-project  shall:  (a)  iiclude  expenditures  intended  for  a  military  or paramilitary
purpose;  (b)  include  civil  vorks  for government  administration  or religious  purposes;
(c)  relate  to  the  manufacture  or  use  of environmentally  harmful  products  (including
tobacco  or  tobacco  products,  materials
pesticides,  ozone-depleting  substances, 
containing  asbestos,  arms  and  drugs);  (d)  relate  to  activities  producing  liquid  or
gaseous  effluents  or  emi3sions  at  harmful  levels;  (e)  relate  to  activities  using,
producing,  storing  or  traisporting  hazardous  materials  and  wastes;  (f)  relate  to
logging;  (g)  relate  to  activ  ties  m protected  areas;  (h) relate  to  fisheries  activities  that
are not in  accoidance  with  standards  set by  the Borrower's  Fishery Service Agency;  (i)
include the  finzncing  of govermnent  salaries;  (j)  relate to  mining  or  excavation  of live
coral  or  coral  reef;  (k)  inc .ude  the  provision  of goods,  works  or  services,  directly  or
through  intermediaries,  by  3uppliers  or contractors,  as the case may be,  who  have been
declared  ineligible  to  part:cipate  in  the  procurement  of any  Bank-financed  contract,
whether  indefir.itely  or for  a staled  period of time,  as a result of a  decision  of the Bank,
and  in  accordance  with the term;  of the decision;  or (1) finance  land  acquisition.

3. 

No project  shall qualify  as  a  Sub-project  eligible  for financing out of the proceeds  of a
Kelurahan  Grant  until  a Sub-project  Agreement:  (a)  has  been  entered  into  between the
relevant  Participating  Kelurahan,  through the  relevant  PJOK,  and  BKM,  in  each  case
on  terms  and  conditions  act  forth  in  Section  B  of  this  Annex;  and  (b)  has  been
reviewed  and  approved  by  :he  relevant  Oversight  Consultants.

4. 

Additional  criteria for  Sub-projects  under  Part 2 of the Project.

(a) 

(b) 

Each  Sub-project  propo:;ed  under  Part  2(a)(i)  of the  Project  shall  be  a  public
infrastructure  or  eluipment  investment  project  or  a  social  service  project
(which  may  include  emergency  preparedness  or  risk  reduction  to  reduce
technically,  financially  and
vulnerability  to  natural  disasters)  which 
environmentally  vi,ble,  and  economically  justified  by  the  number  of people
benefiting  from it.

is 

Each  Sab-project  propcsed  under  Part  2(a)(i)  of the  Project  that  is  in  the
education  sector  -hall  be  compatible  with  the  relevant  Kabupaten/Kota
education  master  pl  n,  if such plan exists.

19 of 34

(c) 

Each  Sub-project  proposed  under  Part  2(a)(i)  of the Project  that  is in  the health
sector  shall  be  compatible  with  the  relevant  Kabupaten/Kota  health  master
plan, if such  plan exists.

(d)  Additional  criteria  for Sub-projects  under Part  2(a)(ii)  of the Project.  For each
Sub-project  in  which  income  generating  activities  will  be  supported  by  a
Revolving  Loan  Fund,  such  Sub-project  shall:  (i)  only  be  undertaken  by  a
BKM  meeting  the  requirements  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual,
including  a  sufficient  repayment  history  with  respect  to  any  other  revolving
funds  managed  by such BKM;  (ii)  require that  the activities  supported  by such
Revolving  Loan  Fund  be income  generating  and  meet the  criteria  set out  in the
Project  Operations  Manual;  and  (iii)  require  that  the  community  groups  to
receive  support  from  such  Revolving  Loan  Fund  be  duly  constituted  in
accordance  with the Project  Operational  Manual.

Additional  criteria  for  Sub-projects  under  Part  2(a)(iii)  of the  Project.  Each
Sub-project  proposed  under  Part  2(a)(iii)  of the  Project  as  a  social  assistance
project  shall  be  designed  to  meet  the  poverty  alleviation  needs  of  Highly
Vulnerable  Groups  meeting  the  criteria  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual.

Additional  criteria  for  Sub-Projects  under  Part  2(b)  of the  Project.  Each  Sub-
project  proposed  under  Part  2(b)  of the  Project  shall  be  in  Participating
Kelurahan  that  meet  the  requirements  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational
Manual,  including  that  such  Participating  Kelurahan:  (i)  has  high  population
density;  (ii)  has  high  poverty  incidence;  (iii)  is  prone  to  natural  disasters;
and/or (iv)  is  in need of complex  interventions.

5. 

Additional  criteria  for Sub-projects  (if any) under Part 4 of the Project.

The Borrower has  declared  a disaster,  emergency  or catastrophic  event  through
the  relevant  national,  Province-  or Local Government-  level  or  other  authority
and  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  have  agreed  in  writing  that  such  an  event
eligible  for support for such activities  under the Project  has occurred;  and

the Bank  and  the  Borrower  have entered  into a  written  arrangement  and/or the
Borrower  has  adopted  a  supplement 
to  the  Project  Operational  Manual,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  which  defines  the  scope  of such  activities,  and  their
implementation  and disbursement  arrangements.

(e) 

(f) 

(a) 

(b) 

20  of 34

B. 

Sub-project Review  and 3election

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  Sub-project  is  the  subject  of a  corresponding
proposal  for  a  Kelurahan  Grant  that  has  been  prepared,  submitted  and  reviewed  in
accordance  with  the  guidelines,  procedures  and  selection  criteria  set  forth  in  the
Project Operational  Manual  and  this Annex.

C. 

Terms and Cenditions of Sub.project Agreements

Each  Sub-project  Agreemcnt  shall  be  on terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Project
Operational  Manual,  which sha I include:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

the  req'iirement  th it  the  Participating  Kelurahan  carry  out  its  Sub-project  in
accordance with tho Project  Operational  Manual;

the  requirement  th it  the  Participating  Kelurahan  carry  out  its  Sub-Project  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Better  Governance  Action  Plan,  the
Anti-Corruption  G iidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  Loan  proceeds  other
than  the  Borrower  the  Environmental  Guidelines,  the  Land  Acquisition  and
Resettlement  Polic:(  Framework, the Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,
and any  Environm;ntal  Management  Plan,  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement
Action  Plan  or Indigeno as  Peoples Plan;

the distursement  schedule  for the Kelurahan  Grant;

the  reqiirement  thit  each  Participating  Kelurahan  procure  the  goods,  works
in  accordance  with
and  services  to  te  financed  out  of  the  Sub-project 
provisions  that  ar,  fully  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of
Schedule  2  to this ) Lgrecment;

the  reqairement  that  each  Participating  Kelurahan  monitor  and  evaluate  the
progress  of the  Sub-project  in  accordance  with the Project  Operational  Manual;

the  requirement  1hat  each  Participating  Kelurahan  maintain  a  financial
in  accordance  with
management  system  and  prepare  financial  statements 
consistently  appliel  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  at  the
Bank's  or  the  Bor-ower's  request,  have  such  financial  statements  audited  by
independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the Borrower,  in  accordance
with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and
promptly  furnish  tfe statements  as  so  audited  to the Borrower  and  the Bank;

the requirement  thit each Participating  Kelurahan  enable the Borrower  and the
Bank  to  inspect  tfe  Sub-project,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents;  and  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  all  such
information  as  the  Bonower  or the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request  relating  to
the foregoing;  and

21  of 34

(h) 

rights adequate  to  protect the interests of the Borrower  and  the Bank,  including
the  right to:  (i) suspend  or terminate  the right of the  Participating  Kelurahan  to
use  the  proceeds  of  the  Kelurahan  Grant;  or  (ii)  obtain  a  refund  of the
Kelurahan  Grant  upon  the  failure of the Participating  Kelurahan.  as applicable,
to perform  any of its obligations  under the Sub-project  Agreement.

22 of34

ANNEX  2  to SCHEDULE  2

National  Compet tive  Bidding:  Modifications  to Procedures

(Public  Tendering) 

The  procedures  applicable  to  the procurement  of goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services
under  contracts  awarded  on the  basis  :f National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  of the
Pelelangan  Umum 
/  Pelelangan
Sederhana (Simplifie&  Tendering)  methods  as  set  forth  in  the  Borrower's  Presidential
Re-ulation  No.  54/2010,  with  tho  modifications  set  out  below  in  order  to  ensure  economy,
efficiency,  transparency,  and  broad  consistency  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3.3  of  said  Guidelines.  The  Pemilihan
Leagsung /Pelelangan Sederhanc method  shall apply to  such procurement  up  to the  financial
In  the  event  of a  conflict  between  the  Borrower's
thrsholds  specified  in  said  Regulation. 
pro cedures  and these  rriodification s, the  latter shall  govern.

and  Pemilihan  Langsung 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Procuring  entities  shall  us,  the  appropriate  standard bidding  documents  acceptable  to
the Borrower  and the Banl..  The  provisions of Section  1.14 (Fraud and  Corruption)  of
the  Procurement  Guidelines  shall  apply,  and  each  bidding  document  and  contract
financed  out of the procceds  of the Loan  shall  include  provisions on matters  pertaining
to  fraud  and  corruption  a,  defined  in  paragraph  1.14(a)  of said  Guidelines  and  the
contract provisions  set out  in paragraph  1.14(e)  of said  Guidelines.

Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  precluded  from  bidding.  If a  registration  process  is
required,  a foreign  firm deternrned  to be  the lowest  evaluated responsive  bidder shall
be  given  reasonable  time  for  registration.  Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  required  to
form  a  joint  venture  or  :;ub-contract  part  of  the  supply  of  goods,  non-consulting
services,  and  works  as  a  condition  for  submitting  bids  or  the  award  of the  contract.
Bidding  documents  shall te made  available,  by  mail  or  in  person,  to  all  international
bidders  who  ar.  willing  to  pay the required  fee.

No  preference of any kind  shall be given to  any bidders.

Under  the  Pelelangan Unun method,  bidders  shall  be  allowed  at  least  twenty-one
(21)  days  from  the  date  o:'the  invitation  to  bid  or the date  of availability  of bidding
documents, whichever  is  liter, to prepare  and submit bids;  this period  shall be ten (10)
days under the Pemilihan Lang.ung /  Pelelangan Sederhana method.

Bids  invited  under  the  Felelangan  Unum  method  shall  be  submitted  in  one  (1)
envelope and evaluated  using post-qualification.

No  bidder  shall  be  rejectcd  m-rely  on  the  basis  of a  comparison  with  the  owner's
estimate and  budget  ceiling; without the Bank's  prior written concurrence.

Bid  security,  at  the  biddcr's  option,  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  letter  of  credit  or
guarantee  from  a  reputable  bgnk  or  other  reputable  financial  institution  and  shall
without exception follow tie form provided  for this purpose in the bidding documents.

23  of 34

8. 

9. 

All  bids  shall not be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the Bank's  prior written
concurrence.

Government-owned  enterprises  in  Indonesia  shall be  eligible  to  participate  in  bidding
only  if they  can  establish  that  they  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate
under  commercial  law,  and  are  not  dependent  agencies  of the  Borrower  or  sub-
borrower.

24 of 34

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
The  following  table  sets  fort. 
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installmeat  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  3rincipal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
repayable  by the  Borrower  on each  Principal Payment  Date shall  be determined  by  the
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment
Bank  by  multiplying: 
Date;  by  (b)  the  Installme-it  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable
amount to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred  to  in paragraph 4
of this Schedule,  to which  L Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal  Payment  Date 

Aril 15,  2022 
October  15,  2022 
April 15,  2023 
October  15,  2023 
April 15,  2024 
October  15,2024 

April  15,  2025 
October  15,  2025 
April 15,  2026 
October  15,  2026 
April  15,  2027 
October  15,  2027 
April 15,  2028 
October  15,  2028 
April  15,  2029 
October  15,  2029 
April 15,  2030 
October  15,  2030 
April  15,  2031 
October  15,  2031 

April  15,  2032 
October  15,  2032 
April  15,  2033 
October  15,  2033 
April  15,  2034 
October  15,  2034 
April  15,  2035 
October  15,  2035 

April  15,  2036 

_ 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)
2.17
2.22
2.28
2.34
2.40
2.46
2.52
2.58
2.64
2.71
2.78
2.85
2.92
2.99
3.07
3.14
3.22
3.30
3.38
3.47
3.56
3.65
3.74
3.83
3.93
4.02
4.12
4.23

4.33

25  of 34

October  15,  2036 
April  15,  2037 

4.44
4.71

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent that  any proceeds  of the Loan have  been withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  as of such date in  accordance  with paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid
on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such  withdrawal  in
amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of each  such
withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment
Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for said  Principal
Payment  Date ("Original  Installment  Share")  and  the denominator  of which  is
the  sum  of all  remaining  Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment
Dates  falling  on or  after  such  date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as
necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to  which a Currency  Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating 
the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following
the  date of withdrawal  and  shall  be repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if at any
time the Bank adopts  a due  date billing  system under which  invoices  are  issued
on or  after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the provisions  of such sub-
paragraph  shall no  longer apply  to  any withdrawals  made  after  the adoption of
such billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted 
in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to the Conversion by either:  (i)  the  exchange rate that
reflects  the amounts  of principal  in  the Approved  Currency  payable  by  the Bank  under
the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so
determines 
the  exchange  rate
component  of the  Screen Rate.

in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines, 

26 of 34

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Be lance  is  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedul,  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for  each  such
amount.

27  of 34

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and
Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011.

to 

"Better  Governance  Action  Plan"  means  a  stand-alone  chapter  of  the  Project
Operational  Manual  designed 
integrate  the  contents  of  the  Anti-Corruption
Guidelines  and  to  give  effect  thereto,  and  giving  details  of a  program  of actions,
measures  and  policies  designed  to  reduce  or  eliminate  fraud  and  corruption  in  all  its
forms  under  the  Project,  including  enhanced  information  disclosure  provisions,  civil
society oversight  provisions,  mitigation measures  to  deal with the risks  associated  with
collusion,  forgery  and  fraud,  a  complaint  handling  mechanism,--and  an  appropriate
regime  of sanctions  and  remedies,  and  included  as  applicable  in  each  Sub-project
Agreement.

"BKM"  means  Badan  Keswadayaan  Masyarakat,  a  Kelurahan  level  Board  of
Community  Trustees  with  elected  members,  legally  empowered  by  registering  as  an
association  to  act  on  behalf  of the  Kelurahan  community  to  take  actions  aimed  at
reducing  poverty  in  the  Participating  Kelurahan,  and  "BKMs"  means  more  than  one
BKM.

"BPKP"  means  Badan  Pengawas Keuangan  dan  Pembangunan, the  Borrower's
Financial and Development  Supervisory Agency,  or any  successor thereto.

"Board of Community  Trustees"  means  a BKM,  and  "Boards  of Community  Trustees"
means BKMs.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in  the  table in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

"Central  PIU  (Satker)"  means  the  central-level  Project  implementation  unit  (Satuan
Kerja, or Satker) established  and  operating  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1(b)  and
paragraph  1(c)  of Section L.A  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"City Coordinator"  means  the consultant  and  its teams  assigned  to  each  Participating
Kota  and/or  Participating  Kabupaten 
to  manage  implementation  of  the  Project,
including  coordination  of Facilitators,  and  "City  Coordinators"  means  more  than  one
City Coordinator.

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

28 of 34

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

"Community  Development  Plan"  means  each  multi-year  development  plan  for  a
Participating  Kelurahan  piepared  by a  BKM  in  accordance  the procedures  and  criteria
set  out  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  and  "Community  Development  Plans"
means more than one  Corr munity  Development  Plan.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  uider  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  da:ed January  2011.

"Coordinating  Ministry  for  Social  Welfare"  means  Kementerian Koordinator Bidang
Kesejahteraan Rakyat,  the  Borrower's  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Social  Welfare,  or
any successor Ihereto.

"Displaced  Peison"  means  a person who,  on account  of the  execution  of the Project,
has  experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused  by:
(a)  the involun:ary taking  of land, resulting  in:  (i) relocation  or loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss
of assets  or  access  to  asscts;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or  means  of livelihood,
whether  or  no:  such  person  nmust  move  to  another  location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary
restriction  of  access  to  1egally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in
adverse  impacts  on  the  li-(elihood  of such  person,  and  "Displaced  Persons"  means,
collectively,  all  such Displ iced  Persons.

"Eligible  Expenditures"  mans  :he  expenditures  for goods,  works  and  services  referred
to  in  Section  2.02 of this Agreement.

"Environmental  Guideline ?"  means  the  guidelines  adopted  by  the  Borrower  through
MPW  on  February  9,  2C12  (Letter  No.  13/PMU-P2KP/II/2012),  setting  forth  the
measures  and  actions  to  be  taken  during  the  implementation  of  the  Project  to
eliminate,  mitigate  or offsct  adverse  environmental  impacts  or to  reduce  such impacts
to  acceptable  levels  and  onsure  management  and  conservation  of physical  cultural
resources  in the design and  implementation  of Sub-projects,  as  such guidelines  may be
amended  from time to time  with the prior written agreement  of the Bank.

"Environmental  Managem,ent  Plan"  or "EMP"  means  an  Environmental  Management
Plan,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  consistent  with  the  Environmental  Guidelines,
adopted  for the  purposes  of a  Sub-project,  and giving  details  of the agreed  actions  and
policies  designed  to  maxiniize i:he  benefits  of the  Sub-project,  eliminate  or offset  any
adverse  environmental  impacts,  or  reduce  such  impacts  to  acceptable  levels,  along
with  the procedural  and  institutional  measures  needed  to  implement  such  actions  and
policies.

16. 

"Facilitator"  means  a tectnical,  economic  or  social  consultant  assigned  to  work  with
Participating  Kelurahans  to  develop  and  implement  a  Community  Development  Plan
and Sub-projec:s,  and "Fac litators"  means  more than one Facilitator.

29 of 34

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"Fiscal  Year"  and  "FY"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  commencing  January  I  and
ending  December  31.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and

"Highly Vulnerable  Groups"  means  groups  of peoples,  including  widows,  the  elderly,
the  disabled  and  the  victims  of natural  disaster,  having  special  poverty  alleviation
needs  and to be  addressed  in the Community  Development  Plan.

"Indigenous  Peoples"  means  those social groups  in Indonesia that  have a  distinct  social
and  cultural 
the
development  process  induced  by the Project or any part thereof

to  being  disadvantaged 

that  are  susceptible 

identity,  and 

in 

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  means  the  framework,  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  adopted  by  the  Borrower  through  MPW  on  February  9,  2012  (Letter  No.
13/PMU-P2KP/II/2012)  setting  forth  the  measures  and  actions  to  be taken  during the
implementation  of  the  Project  for:  (a)  the  process  of  free,  prior  and 
informed
consultation  leading  to  broad community  support  of Indigenous  Peoples,  in the design
and  implementation  of each  Sub-project  to  be,  or  being,  carried  out  in  a  location  in
which  such  people  reside  or  use  for  their 
livelihood;  and 
(b)  designing  and
implementing  measures 
to  provide  benefits  which  are  socially  and  culturally
acceptable  to  them, and reduce,  mitigate and  offset  adverse impacts  of Sub-projects,  as
such  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework;  as  such  framework  may  be  amended
from time to  time with the prior written  agreement  of the  Bank  and the Borrower.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Plan"  means  each  plan  for  a  Sub-project,  meeting  the
requirements  of the Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  that  sets  out the agreed
measures  to  (a)  involve  Indigenous  Peoples,  through  a  process  of  free,  prior  and
informed  consultation,  in  the  design  and  implementation  of  each  Sub-project  in
locations  in  which such people  reside or make  their living;  (b)  ensure  that Indigenous
Peoples affected  by the Sub-project  receive  culturally  appropriate  social  and economic
benefits;  and  (c) when  potential  adverse  effects  on Indigenous  Peoples  are  identified,
those  adverse  effects  are  avoided,  minimized,  mitigated,  or  compensated  for,  in  each
case in a manner  acceptable to  the Bank and the Borrower.

"Inspectorate  General  of MPW"  means  an  inspectorate  general  of the  MPW,  or  any
successor  thereof

"Kabupaten"  means  a district,  an administrative  division of the Borrower.

"Kabupaten/Kota  Poverty  Alleviation  Coordination  Team"  means 
local
government-level  working  group  established  under  Perpres  15/2010 
in  each
Participating  Kabupaten,  Participating  Kecamatan  or  Participating  Kota,  or  any
successor thereto.

the 

30 of 34

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

3C. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

"Kecamatan"  means  a  sub  district,  an administrative  sub-district of a  Kabupaten.

"Kelurahan"  irean an urban section  of a Kecamatan.

"Kelurahan  Grant"  means  a grant  made  available by the Borrower  out of the proceeds
of the Loan to  a Participat  ng Kelurahan  for a Sub-project  under Part 2 or Part 4 of the
Project,  and  "Kelurahan  G  ants"  means  more than one Kelurahan Grant.
"Kota"  means  a  municip.dity,  an  administrative  division  within  a  province  of the
Borrower.

"Kota/Kabupaten  PIU  (S itker)"  means  each  Project  implementation  unit  (Satuan
KeJa, or  Satker)  establi.-.hed  and  operated  by  each  Participating  Kota  and  each
Participating  Kabupaten  in  accordance  with  paragraph  2(c)  and  paragraph  2(f)  of
Section  L.A of Schedule  2  o this Agreement.

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan"  means  a  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  action plan  :or  a  Sub-project  giving  details  of the  agreed  provisions  for
compensation,  rehabilitation and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced Persons  under the
Sub-project,  along with thc  procedural and  institutional  measures  needed to implement
icceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  prepared  and
such  agreed  provisions, 
implemented  by  a  BKM,  pursuant  to  the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy
Framework.

"Land  Acquisit:ion  and  Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  Land  Acquisition
and  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  adopted  by  the  Borrower  through  MPW  on
February  9, 2012  (Letter No.  13/PMU-P2KP/II/2012)  setting  forth  the measures  and
actions  to  be  taken  during  tho  implementation  of the  Project  for  the  provision  of
compensation,  rehabilitaticn  and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced  Persons,  as  such
framework may  be amend-d  from time to  time with  the prior written agreement  of the
Bank  and the iorrower.

"Local  Government"  meais  th,e  government  of a  Kabupaten,  Kecamatan  or Kota,  as
the  context  requires,  and  "Local  Governments"  means  more  than  one  Local
Government.

"Local  Goverranent  PartiCipation"  means  Local  Government  funding  contributed  to
the  total  Sub-project  cost  for  participating  in  the  Project,  to  be  made  available  by  a
Participating  Local  Gove-nment  to  a  Participating  Kelurahan  for  a  Sub-project  in
accordance with the formula  set forth in the Project  Operational  Manual

"Ministry  of Finance"  mtans  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Ministry  of Home  Affaiis"  and  "MOHA"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Home
Affairs,  or any successor  t iereto.

31  of 34

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

"Ministry  of Public  Works"  and  "MPW" means  the  Ministry  of Public  Works  of the
Borrower,  or any successor thereto.

"National  Development  Planning  Agency"  means  Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan
Nasional, the  Borrower's  National  Development  Planning  Agency,  and  any successor
thereto.

"National  Management  Consultants"  means  the team of consultants  within  the Project
Management  Unit  at  the  central  level  engaged  to  assist  in  Project  implementation  and
monitoring.
"Operational  Guidelines 
for  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  of  PNPM"  means  the
guidelines, 
in  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  outlining  the  common
objectives,  mechanisms  and  responsibilities  for  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the
Project.

included 

"Oversight  Consultants"  means  the  team  of  consultants  and  facilitators  at  the
provincial  and  district  level  engaged  to  assist  Participating  Kelurahans  with  Project
implementation  and monitoring.

"Part"  means  a part of the Project  described  in Schedule  I  to  this Agreement.

"Participating  Kabupaten"  means  a  Kabupaten  which  is  responsible  for  a  Local
Government  Participation  for a  Sub-project  in  accordance  with  the Project  Operational
Manual,  and  "Participating  Kabupatens"  means  more 
than  one  Participating
Kabupaten.

"Participating  Kecamatan"  means  a  Kecamatan  in  which  one  or  more  Participating
Kelurahans  are  located  and  which  establishes  a  PJOK for  the  Project  in  accordance
with  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  and  "Participating  Kecamantans"  means  more
than one Participating  Kecamatan.

"Participating  Kelurahan"  means  a  Kelurahan  participating  in  the Project  meeting  the
eligibility requirements  set out  in the Project  Operational  Manual.

"Participating  Kota"  means  a  Kota  which  is  responsible  for  a  Local  Government
Participation  for  a  Sub-project,  and  "Participating  Kotas"  means  more  than  one
Participating  Kota.

"Participating  Local  Government"  means  the  government  of a  Participating  Kota or a
Participating  Kabupaten  designated  by the  Borrower  as  one  in  which  a  Participating
Kelurahan  shall  carry  out  a  Sub-project  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operational
Manual,  and  "Participating  Local  Governments"  means  more  than  one  Participating
Local Government.

32 of 34

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54 

55. 

5,5. 

5j. 

"Perpres"  means  a Peratur an P-esiden, a presidential regulation.

"PJOK" means  the  Project  opcrations  officer  at  the  Kecamatan  level  responsible  for
each  Sub-project  in the  rclevant  Participating  Kelurahans,  established  in  accordance
with  paragraph  2(d)  of S:ctiori  I.A  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and  "PJOKs"
means more than one  PJOK.

"PNPM"  means  Program  Nasional  Pemberdayaan  Masyarakat  Mandiri,  the
Borrower's  National  Prog:-am  fbr Community  Empowerment,  as  described  in Perpres
13/2009,  as the same  may  )e  amended  or updated from time to time.

"Procurement  3uidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World
Bank Borrowers"  dated Jaiuary  2011.

"Pokja  Pengendali  PNPM"  means  the national-level  oversight body of PNPM,  chaired
by  the  Coordinating  Ministry  for  Social  Welfare,  with  representatives  of relevant
ministries,  including  Nat  onal  Development  Planning  Agency,  Ministry  of  Home
Affairs,  Ministry  of  Finaince,  Ministry  of  Public  Works,  and  State  Ministry  for
Development  of Disadvan:aged  Regions,  or any successor thereto.

"Procurement  Plan"  meaus  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
July  26,  2012  and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the same  shall be  updated  from  time
to time  in accordance  witt the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Management  Uit"  or  "PMU  (Satker)"  means  the  central-level  Project
Management  Unit  (Satke)  esablished  and  operating  in  accordance  with  paragraph
1(b)  of Section  I.A of Schxlule  2 to this Agreement.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the  Project  Operational  Manual  or  Pedoman
Pelaksanaan PNPM  Ma idiri  Perkotaan, acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  and  the
Borrower dated  May 31,  2012  referred  to  in paragraph  I of Section I.B of Schedule 2
to  this  Agreement,  as  such  Project  Operational  Manual  may  be  amended  or
supplemented  from time tD timy.e  with the prior written agreement  of the Borrower  and
the Bank.

"Province"  means  an administrative sub-division  of the Borrower's territory at the first
level below the national  lcvel.

Provincial  PlU  (Satker"  means  each  Province-level  Project  implementation  unit
(Satuan Kerjo,  or Satker) established  and  operated  by  each  Province  in  accordance
with  paragraph  2(a)  anI  paragraph  2(f)  of  Section  L.A  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  and  "Provin-,ial  PITJs  (Satkers)"  means  more  than  one  Provincial  PIU
(Satker).

33  of 34

58. 

59. 

60. 

61. 

62. 

"Revolving  Loan Fund"  means.a  fund  established  and managed  by a BKM,  or through
other  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  and  set  out  in  the
Project  Operational  Manual,  to  support  Sub-project  income generating  activities  under
Part 2  (a)(ii)  of the Project undertaken  by community  groups  constituted  in  accordance
with  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  and  "Revolving  Loan  Funds"  means  more  than
one  Revolving  Loan  Fund.

"Rupiah"  and  "Rp" means  the  currency of the Borrower.

"State  Ministry  for  Development  of Disadvantaged  Regions"  means  the  Borrower's
State Ministry for Development  of Disadvantaged  Regions,  or any successor thereto.

"Sub-project"  means  an  activity  identified  in  a  Community  Development  Plan:  (a)
under  Part  2  of the  Project  as  identified  in  a  Community  Development  Plan;  or  (b)
under Part 4 of the Project  as  agreed  in writing between  the Borrower and the  Bank,  in
each  case  selected  pursuant  to  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual  and  utilizing  the  proceeds  of  a  Kelurahan  Grant,  and  "Sub-
projects"  means  more than one  Sub-project.

"Sub-project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be entered  into  between the  relevant
Participating  Kelurahan,  through  the  BKM,  and  the  relevant  PJOK  for  purposes  of
implementing  a  Sub-project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Annex  1  to
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  included  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  and
"Sub-project  Agreements"  means more  than one Sub-project  Agreement.

34  of 34

