LOAN  NUMBER  8146-TR

Loan Agreement

(Third Programmatic  Environmental  Sustainability  and  Energy  Sector
Development  Policy Loan)

REPUBLIC  OF TURKEY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  Apr;l 

.2012

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN  N1 7MBER  8146-TR

Agreement  dated  AP61  G 

, 2012, entered  into  between  REPUBLIC
OF  TLRKEY  ("Borrower")  and  I NTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOP'1ENT ("Bank")  for the  purpose of providing  financing  in support  of the  Program  (as
.iined  in  :he  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).  The  Bank  has  decided  to provide  this  Financing  on
the  basis,  inter alia, of:  (a)  the  actions  which  the  Borrower has  already taken  under  the  Program
and  which  are  described  in  Section  I of  Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower's
naintenance  of an  appropriate  macro-economic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
therefore  hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I-  GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

!F:c General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

;.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
mre  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
A_reement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01 

2.02. 

2.03. 

T,:.  Bank  agrees  to  lend to the Borrower, on  the terms and conditions  set  forth or referred
to  in  this Agreement,  the amount of four hundred  fift3 -five  million four hundred  thousand
Euros  (EUR  455,400,000), as  such  amount may be  converted  from time to time through  a
Currency  Conversion 
the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this
Agreement  ("Loan").

in  accordance  with 

.w  Borroxer  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  support  of  the  Program  in
accordance  with  Section  II  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

.D  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee  not  later  than
sixty  (60)  days after the  Effective  Date.

2  +4.  The  interest  payable  by  -he  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the  Ruference  Rate  for the  Loan Currency  plus  the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that upon  a
Conversion of all  or any portion  of the principal  amount of the  Loan, the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
ew ,ith:tanding 
the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
1nr:id  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for a  period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then
the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section
3.02 (e) of the  General  Conditions.

S.  T 

?  mern  Dates  are  February  15  and  August  15  in  each year.
1.-: 

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set  forth in  Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms of the Loan  in  order to facilitate  prudent debt  management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis applicable  to:  (A)  all  or any  portion of the  principal  amount of
t*e  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate and
the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  based on  a Variable  Spread to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  by the  establishment of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate Collar on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the General  Conditions and of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

2.03.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  of  Section  11  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating to  the  provisions  of this  Article  II  as  the
Bank  may, from  time to time, reasonably  request.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to the  Program  and  its  implementation.  To  this
end, and  further  to Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and the Bank  shall  from  time to  time, at the request  of either  party,
exchange  views  on  the  progress achieved  in carrying  out the  Program;

prior to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in such  detail  as the Bank  shall reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a) and  (b)  of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall  exchange  views with  the  Bank  on  any  proposed  action  to  be
taken  after  the  disbursement  of  the  Loan  which  would  have  the  effect  of
materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program,  or any action  taken  under  the
in  Section  I  of  Schedule  I  to  this
Program  including  any  action  specified 
Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE  IV-REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4,01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  a  situation
has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable that the Program,  or a significant  part of it,  will
be carried  out.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the
:nlk  is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by the  Borrower  in  carrying  out the Program

and  with  the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy framework.

5.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of
this  A,r.emen.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  the Undersecretary  of Treasury.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

3a,cakan  Ii k

n,11in..  Nfus:esarligi

Inonu  Buivari
.nck 
Turkey

- Ankara

Facsimile:

(312)  204-7366

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  11  Street,  N.W.
"k Ishinton,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

IN-B  AFRAD 

.n.no.:n.  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64;45(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Ankara,  Republic  of Turkey, as of the day  and  year  first above written.

REPUBLIC  OF TURKEY

Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

orized  Representative

By

Name:

Title:

By:

Name:

Title:

-4-

SCHEDULE  I

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan  Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Proeram

The actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under the Program  include  the following:

I. 
operator),  has  launched the wholesale  day-ahead-market  on December  1, 2011.

The  Borrower,  through  TEIAS  (which  is  the  transmission  system  and  electricity  market

2. 
.e Borrower  has  amended  the  Use  of Renewable  Energy  Resources  for  the  Purpose  of
E1lctricit'  Generation  Law  No.  5346  by  publishing  amendment  Law  No.  6094  in  the  Official
Gazette on  January  8, 2011,  which  amendment  inter alia defines  the  various  renewable  energy
resources  and  provides  a  support  mechanism  for  renewable  energ)  resources  and  incentives  for
thC  use of domestically  produced  equipment.

3. 
Efii.nc  Strateg:,,  which  aims  inter alia to  decrease  the  energ 
unit  of  n 

.. I;f  Borrower's  High  Planning  Council  approved  on  February  20,  2012,  the  Energy
intensity  (in  terms  of GDP  per

use) of Turkey  by at  least 20% by  2023  compared to 2011.

4. 
The  Borrower's  Climate  Change  Coordination  Board  approved  on  May  2, 2011,  and  the
Borrower's  1.\ai5ry  of  Environment  and  Urbanization  announced  in  July  2011,  the  National
Climate  C1vne  Action  Plan,  which  inter alia establishes  an  overall  implementation  plan  and
sectoral  plans  for  key  sectors  in  accordance  with  the  priority  areas  and  activities  set  out  in  the
National  Climate Change  Action Strategy.

5. 
The  Borrower  has  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  June  8,  2010,  the  Regulation  on
Large  Combustion  Plant  for  the  licensing  of  new  installations,  thereby  transposing  into  law
LU  Directive  200 11 SO  FC on Large  Combustion  Plants.

6. 
.. '  Borw er has published  in the  Official  Gazette  on  April  29,  2009,  the Regulation  on
2 .rN:: 
and  Licenses  to  be  taken  in  Accordance  with  the  Environmental  Law  (which  became
.rf::1. 
on  April  1, 2010)  and  on  February  24,  2010,  April  25,  2010  and  on  August  16,  2011,
amendments  to  said regulation,  which  inter alia combine  all  environmental  licenses  and  permits
required  :..r an  industrial  installation  into a single "e-permit".

7. 
The  Borrower  has  published  in  the  Official  Gazette  on  October  10,  2011,  an  amendment
to the  Industrial  Air  Pollution  Control  Regulation,  which  inter alia facilitates  the  privatization of
thermal  power  generation.

8. 
T.i  Borrower  has  published  in  the Official  Gazette  on  June  8,  2010,  the  Regulation  on
Control  of  Soil  Pollution  and  Contaminated  Sites  by  Point  Sources,  which  regulation  provides
inter alia 'cr  control  of soil  pollution and  the determination  and  remediation  of polluted  sites.
Section  H. 

A%ailability  of  Loan  Proceeds

A. 

Gecneral.  The  Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this Section.

-5-

Allocation  of Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,
from  which  the  Borrower may  make N ithdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The allocation  of
the amounts  of the  Loan to this end is  set out in the table below:

Allocations 

Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount of the  Loan Allocated
(expressed  in Euro)

455,400,000

455,400,000

C. 

D. 

F. 

Payment  of Front-end  Fee.  No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  from  the  Loan  Account  until
the Bank  has received payment  in full  of the  Front-end  Fee.

Withdrawal  Tranche  Release Conditions.  No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of the  Single
Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank  is  satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being carried  out
by  the  Borrower,  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy

E. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except as the  Bank  may otherwise agree:

1. 

2. 

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an
account  designated  by the Borrower  and acceptable  to the  Bank; and

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget
management  system,  in a manner acceptable  to the  Bank.

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
not  be used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank  determines  at any  time that an
amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  an  amount  equal  to  the
amount  of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to the  Bank  upon  such  request
shall  be cancelled.

G. 

Closing Date.  The  Closing Date  is June 30,  2013.

-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

I 

:', e  following 
table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentaQe  of the total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principai  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully withdrawn  as of
:nc  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the
3o.rower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
- a.i 
(a)  Withdraw n  Loan  Balance  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by
(b) the  Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
-w  - s:ed.  as necessary,  to deduct any  amounts referred  to in  paragraph  4  of this Schedule,
to  which a Currency  Conversion  applies.

.ng4. 

Principal Payment Date 

On each  February  15  and August  15

3cgIining  August  15,  2020 
through February  15,  2027

On August  15,  2027 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

6.67%

6.62%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
PaN munt  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any  amount  wiihdrawn  after the  first Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment Date falling after the date of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying the amount of each  such N irhdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator of which  is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Originat  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable to  be adjusted,  as necessary, to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
1pplies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment Date shall,  for the  purposes  solely of calculating the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  % idra% n  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of

-7-

withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with  the second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the  date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Now. ithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such  billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the  Conversion  by either:  (i) the  exchange  rate that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines, the exchange  rate component of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency,  so as to  produce  a separate amortization  schedule  for each  such amount.

-8-

APPENDIX

Section  1.  Definitions

1. 

"Excluded  E.\penditure"  means any expenditure:

(a) 

D) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international 
financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed or agreed to finance under another  loan, credit, or grant;

for  goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
international  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3 (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M, No. 34/Rev.3  (:)86)  (the  SITC),
or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated  by the Bank  by notice to the Borrower:

Sub-group 

Description of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
Tobacco,  manufacrured
(whether  or not containing
tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive and associated
materials
Pearls,  precious  and.
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
Nuclear reactor  . and parts
thereof;  fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
Tobacco processing
machinery
Jewelry  of gold, silver or
platinum  group  metals (except
watches and watch  cases) and
goldsmiths'  or  si;. ersmiths'
wares  (including set gems)
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores  an'd
concentrates)

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 

897 

971 

718.7 

728.43 

897.3 

-9-

(c) 

for  goods 
C.;rinmption:

intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for environmentally  hazardous  goods, the  manufacture,  use  or import of which  is
prohibited  under  the  laws  of the  Borrower  or international  agreements  to  which
the  Borrower  is a party;

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the  United  Nations;
and

under  a  contract  with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  an  event  has
occurred  under  Section  7.03(c)  of the General  Conditions

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March 
modifications  set  forth  in  Section  II of this Appendix.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 
12,  2012,  with 

and
the

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  enhance
energy  security,  integrate  principles  of  environmental  sustainability  and  improve  the
effectiveness  and  efficiency  of environmental  management  processes,  which  program  is
set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  February  23,  2012,  from  the  Borrower  to  the
Bank  declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank in support  of the  Program  during its execution.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  categor-
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of Section  II  of
Schedule  I to  this Agreement.

"TEIA5"  means  TOrkiye  Elektrik  Iletim  A.$.,  a joint  stock  company  established  and
operating  pursuant to Decree  Number 2001/2026  dated February  5, 2001.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General Conditions

he  modifications to  the General  Conditions are  as follows:

I. 

last  sentence  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for

The 
Withdrawal)  is  deleted  in  its entiretN.

Sections  2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted  in their
entirety,  and the  remaining  Sections in Article  II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

Sections  5.01 
(Project  E%ecution  Generally),  and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are  deleted  in their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in
Article  V  are renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above  and
relating  to  Use of Goods, Works  and Services) is  deleted in  its entirety.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

-10-

5. 

I.dragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 above)  is
m:-.oi:ed  to read as follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The Borrower shall retain  all records (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing  expenditures  under the  Loan  until
the  Bank's

bilI. 
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable 
representatives  to  examine such  records."

6. 

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  above)  is

diLd to  read as  follows:

Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

... 
The  Borrower  shall  prepare,  or cause  to  be  prepared,  and  furnish
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of such
scope  and in  such detail  as the Bank shall  reasonably request,  on  the  execution  of
the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of
the  purposes  of the  Loan.

7. 

f:lc 

ing  terms  and definitions  set  forth  in the  Appendix  are  modified  or deleted  as
s, and  the following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in  alphabetical  order  to

: 
0o 
;c  Appendix  as follows,  %ith the terms being renumbered accordingly:

(a) 

The definition  of the term  "Eligible  Expenditure"  is modified  to  read  as follows:

"'1.lig,ble  Expenditure'  means any use  to which  the  Loan  is  put  in support of the
Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant  to  the  Loan
Agreement."

The  term  "Financial  Statements"  and its definition  are deleted  in their entirety.

(c) 

The  term  "Project"  is  modified  to read  "Program"  and  its definition  is  modified
to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  "Project"  throughout  these  General
Conditions  are deemed  to be references  to "Program"):

Program'  means  tho  program  referred  to  in the  Loan  Agreemeni  in  support  of

which the  Loan  is  made."

-11-

