foma

DOCUMS!

LOAN NUMBER  8159-CN

Loan Agreement

(Ningxia Desertification  Control and Ecological Protection Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2012

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

,2012,  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and
the  Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

2,,1 
7

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  the
in  the  General

Loan  Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed 
Conditions  or in the Appendix  to this  Agreement.

to  them 

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lenc  to  the Borrower, on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth
or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  eighty  million
Dollars  ($80,000,000),  as  such  amount  may be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section
2.07  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project described
in  Schedule  I to this Agreement ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  wi-hdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance

with  Section IV  of Schedule  2  to this-Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to one  quarter of

one percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a
rate  equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable
Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a Conversion of all  or any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by 
the  Borrower  during  the
Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with
IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
the 
Notwithstanding 
if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan
Balance remains  unpaid  when  due  and such nonpayment  continues  for a period
of thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead
be calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02(e)  of the  General Conditions.

relevant  provisions  of  Article 

the  foregoing, 

2.05.  The  Payment  Dates  are  May  15,  and November  15  in  each year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with the

amortization  schedule  set forth in  Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may at any  time request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of thc  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.C5(c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE 1I- 

PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project.  To
this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  (Ningxia)  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article V  of the  General  Conditions  and the  Project

-3  -

3.02  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement  and
except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V -

]REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  the  Minister of Finance.

5.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Sanlihe, Xicheng  District
Beijing  100820
People's  Republic  of China

Facsimile:

(86-10)  68  55  11  25

5.03.  The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI) or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at Beijing,  Pecple's  Republic  of China,  as of the  day and  year

First  above  written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA

Aut  orized  Representative

By

By

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

Ihe  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  control  desertification  and  degradation  and
locations  in
:rotect  key  farmland  and  infrastructure 
Ningxia  Hui  Autonomous  Region  of the  Borrower.

in  strategically  selected 

The  Project consists of the following  parts:

Part A:  Controlling Desertification  and Degradation

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Moving  Sand Stabilization.  Carrying  out a  program  to halt  the  movement  of
shifting  sand  dunes  and  prevent  encroachment  of  shifting  sand  onto
agricultural  land,  settlerients  and  infrastructure  through,  inter  alia, the
establishment  of  straw  checker  boards  combined  with  the  seeding  and
planting  of indigenous  shrub  and  grass  on  about  19,000  hectares  of moving
in  Ningxia,  and  implementing  fire
and  semi-moving  sand  dune  areas 
control  measures,  including  the  construction  of  fire  breaking  tracks  and
passage  routes,  watch  tcwers,  and  small  buildings  for  technical  staff  and
workers,  information  boa-ds  and  warning  signs.

Degradation  Control and Re-vegetation.  Carrying  out a  program  to control  and
reverse  degradation  of  arid  and  semi-arid  shrubland  and  steppe  areas
through,  inter  alia,  closing,  protecting  and  managing  for  natural  re-
vegetation  about  42,000  hectares  of degraded  arid  and  semi-arid  areas,  shrub
planting  and  assisted  vegetation  restoration  in  an  additional  4,600  hectares,
including  construction  of access  tracks  serving  as fire  breaks,  watch  towers
and  other  infrastructure  required  to  manage  and  monitor  the  rehabilitated
areas.

Integrated Land Management. Carrying  out a program  to mitigate  any potential
negative  impacts  on  land  users  from  desertification  control  and  vegetation
rehabilitation  measures  resulting  from  the  implementation  of Parts  A  (a)
and  A  (b)  of the  Project,  including  implementing  the  Process  Framework,
carrying  out  economic  tree  plantations  and  fodder  production  for  livestock  to
compensate  for  access  restrictions  to  grazing  areas,  and  developing
long-term  land  management  arrangements  for  selected  sites.

Part B:  Protective  Shelterbelt  Plantations

from
Carrying  out  a  program 
desertification  and  sand  encroa-hment  through,  inter  alia, the  establishment  of
multi-layer  and  multistorey  tree  and  shrub  shelterbelts  in  about  5,500  hectares  along
roads,  irrigation  canals  and  around  agricultural  fields  and  fruit  orchards  in  selected

to  protect  key 

farmland  and 

infrastructure 

-6-

installing  supplemental 
ocations, 
3uccessful  establishment  of shelterbelt  plantings

including 

irrigation  systems 

to  ensure 

the

Part C:  Project Management,  Capacity Building  and Monitoring and Evaluation

Provision  of technical  assistance  support  for carrying  out:  (a)  information  and  awareness
the  detailed  technical
campaigns  for  project  beneficiaries  and  stakeholders;  (b) 
design,  field  implementation  and  construction,  construction  supervision,  and  final
acceptance  checks  of  desertification  control  works,  safeguards  supervision,  and
Project  progress  reporting;  (c)  applied  research;  (d)  training  on  the  establishment,
maintenance  and  post-managerrent  of  desertification  control  and  plantation
investments  for  long-term  sustainability;  and  (e)  desertification  control  impact
monitoring  and  field  demonstration  that  is  integrated  into  the  Borrower's  national
and  regional  desertification  monitoring  system.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Financing  and Imtitutional

Financing Arrangements

A. 

1I 

The  Borrower  shall  make  available  to the  Project  Implementing  Entity the
proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to the  Categories  for  each  such
Entity  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of this  Schedule  under  terms  and
conditions  satisfactory to  the Bank,  including the  following principal  terms:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  principal  amount  shall  be  made  available  in  Dollars  or  any  other
Currency  as  the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  (such  principal  amount  determined  on  the  date,  or
respective  dates,  of  withdrawal  from the  Loan  Account  of the  value  of
the  currency  or currencies  so withdrawn).

The  principal  amount  so  made  available  (including  an  amount  equal  to
the  fee paid  pursuant to  Section  2.03  of this  Agreement  and any  Premium
for  Interest  Rate  Caps  or  Interest  Rate  Collars  paid  pursuant  to
Section  2.07(c)  of this  Agreement  and  Section  4.05(c)  of the  General
Conditions)  shall  be  recovered  over  a  period  of thirty  (30)  years,
inclusive  of a  grace period  of five  (5)  years.

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and
outstanding  fronr  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
Section 2.04  of th] s  Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  ensurc  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II.  Project Monitoring7,  Reporting  and Evaluation

Anti-Corruption

B. 

1 .

A. 

Project  Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  and  shall  cause  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and
prepare  Project  Reports  ia  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of
the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of the  indicators  set  forth  in  the
Annex  of the  Schedule  to the  Project  Agreement.  Each  Project  Report  shall

-8-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

cover the  period  of one  (1) calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank
not  later than  March  15  and  September  15  in each  year, beginning  on  March  15,
2013.

Financial  Management,  Financial  Reports and  Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to  be  maintained  a financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provision  of Part A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  Progress  Report  not  later  than
March  15  and  September  15  in  each  year  beginning  March  15,  2013,  interim
unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  ils  Financial  Statements  audited  in accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  zover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  not later than six(6)  ronths after the end  of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

I. 
Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting  Services.  All  goods,
works,  and  non-consulting  services  required  for  the  Project and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Prccurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the  provisions  of this
Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
2. 
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  cf the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements set forth  or referred  to  in Sections  I and  IV of the  Consultant  Guidelines  and
with the  provisions of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capital,zed  terms  used  below 

in  this  Section  to  describe
3. 
particular  procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer  to  the  corresponding  methoc.  described  in  Sections  II and  III  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III, IV  and  V  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  case may  be.

-9-

B. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting
Services

in
International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided 
paragraphs  2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured
under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.  The
provisions  of paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
Appendix  2  thereto  shall  apply  to  goods  manufactured  in  the  territory  of the
Recipient  (other  than  goods  manufactured  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special
Administrative  Region  or  the  Macau  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the
Recipient).

Other Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and  Non-consulting  Services.
The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be
used  for  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for  those
contracts  specified  in  the Procurement  Plan.

Procurement Methods

(a) 

National  Competitive  Bidding:

to  be  followed  for  National  Competitive
In  addition,  the  procedures 
Bidding  shall  be those  set  forth  in  the  Law on  Tendering  and  Bidding  of the
People's  Republic  of China  promulgated  by  Order  No.21  of the  President
of the  People's  Republic  of China  on  August 30,  1999,  with  the  following
the  Procurement
clarifications 
Guidelines:

for  compliance  with 

requ  red 

(i) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised
in  a  newspaper  of national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  country,
except  for  civil  works  contracts  that  are  estimated  to  cost  less  than
$2,000,000  eqiivalent  each  and  goods  contracts  that  are  estimated
to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which  may  be
advertised  in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such  advertisement
shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective  bidders  to  obtain
prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and  prepare  and  submit
their  responses.  In  any  event,  a  minimum  of thirty  (30)  days shall  be
in  such
given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of  advertisement 
newspaper  and  the  deadline  for  submission  of bids,  and  the
advertisement  and  bidding  documents  shall  specify  the  deadline
for such  submission.

(ii) 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of
the  qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be
evaluating 
specified  in  detail  in  the  bidding  documents.

- 10-

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(ix) 

(x) 

All  bidders  that  meet  the qualification  criteria  set  out in the  pre-
qualification  document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there
shall  be no  limit on the  number of pre-qualified  bidders.

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount
sufficient  to protect the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  (Ningxia),  as  the  case  maybe,  in  case  of breach  of
contract  by  the  contractor,  and  the  bidding  documents  shall
specify  the required  form  and  amount  of such  security.

Bidders  will  be  allowed  to  submit  bids  by  mail  or  by  hand.
The  time  for  opening  of  all  bids  shall  be  the  same  as  the
deadline for  receipt  of such  bids.

e  opened 

in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be
All  bids  shall 
offered  an  opportunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or
through  their  representatives)  at  the  time  of bid  opening,  but
bidders  shall  not  be required  to  be present  at the bid  opening.

(vii) 

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding
documents  and  quantified  in  monetary  terms  or  expressed  in
the  form  of pass,fail  requirements.

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid
price  falls  outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or
the
margin  or  bracket  of  average  bids  established  by 
Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Ningxia),  as
the  case  maybe.

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated
responsive  bidder,  that  is,  the  bidder  who  meets  the  appropriate
standards  of capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The
winning  bidder  shall  not be  required,  as  a  condition  of award,  to
undertake  responsibilities  for  work  not stipulated  in  the  bidding
documents  or  otherwise  to  modify  the  bid  as  originally
submitted.

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
provide  that  the  suppliers  and  contractors  shall  permit  the
Bank,  at  its  request,  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records
relating  to  the  performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said
accounts  and  records  audited  by  auditors  appointed  by  the
Bank.

- 11 -

(xi)  Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower's  country  may
be  permitted  to  bic  or  submit  a  proposal  of goods and  works  if they  can
establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous;  (B)
operate  under commercial  law;  and (C)  are not a  dependent  agency of the
agency conducting the  procurement.

(xii)  Re-bidding  should  not  be  allowed  solely  because  the  number  of
bids  is  less than three  (3) and,  rejection  of all bids or rebidding  shall  not
take  place  without  the  Bank's  prior  written  concurrence.

(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be
published  in the  national  press  or  provincial  press or  official  gazette  or a
free  and  open  access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered
price  of the  winning  bidder, as  well  as the  duration  and  summary  scope
of the awarded  contract.

(xiv)  The  Project  Implementing  Entity  (Ningxia)  shall  have 

in  place

provisions  for bidders  to protest.

(a) 

Shopping

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in paragraph  2
below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the  circumstances  under which  such  methods may  be  used.

Procurement Methods

Quality-Based  Selection

(b) 

(c) 
(d) 

(e) 

Selection  Based  on Consultants'  Qualifications
Procedures  set forth  in paragraphs  5.2  and 5.3  of the Consultant
Guidelines  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants
Single-Source  Selection

- 12  -

3. 

The  shortlist  of  consul-ants  for  services  estimated  to  cost  less  than  an
amount  established  by  the  Bank  from  time  to  time  may  comprise  entirely
of national  consultants.

[). 

Review  by  the World Bank of Procurement  Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan shall  set  forth those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to
the  Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review
by the  Bank.

Section  IV. 

Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Sectior  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall
specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for  Projects"  cated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by the
Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),
to  finance:  (a)  the  Front-end  Fee  in  accordance  with  Section  2.07(b)  of  the
General  Conditions;  (b)  if applicable,  the  Premium  for  Interest  Rate  Caps  or
Interest  Rate  Collars  in  accordance  with  Section  2.07(c)  of  the  General
Conditions;  and  (c)  other  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in
paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that
the
may  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"), 
allocation  of the  amount5  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of
expenditures  to  be  financed  for  Eligible Expenditures  in each  Category.

A. 

I. 

2. 

Category 

(1)  Civil  works, non-consulting 

services  and  goods

-

(2)  Consultants'  services,  Training
and  Incremental  Operating
Costs 

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

(4) 

Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate  Collar premium 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated  (Expressed 
in Dollars) 

79,000,000
79,00,00074%

Percentage  of
Expenditures to
be  Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

800,000 
200,000 

100%
100%

0  Amount  due  pursuant to
Section 2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

TOTAL 

80,000,000  1_1

- 13  -

8.  Withdrawal Conditions,  Procedures  and Withdrawal Period

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  prov  sions  of  Part  A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall
be  made  in  respect  of payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,
except  that withdrawals  up to  an amount  not to  exceed  $8,000,000  equivalent
may  be  made  for  paymen-s  made  prior  to this  date  but  on  or  after  February  1,
2012,  for  Eligible  Expenditures.

2. 

The  Closing  Date is  March  31,  2018.

- 14  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  ?rincipal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying:

(a) 

(b) 

Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;
by

the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable
amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in
paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each May  15  and  November  15
Beginning November  15,  201  7 through 
May  15,  2042

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

2%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

- 15  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn  within two (2)  calendar months  prior to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely of calculating
the  principal  amcunts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be
treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding on  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal
Payment Date  following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  tEe provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Eank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,
the  provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption  of such  billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii) if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is  denominated  in  more than one Loan Currency,
the  amount
the  provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately 
denominated  in each  Loan  Currency,  so  as to  produce  a  separate  amortization
schedule  for each  such  amount.

to 

- 16  -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and
IDA  Credits  and  Loans",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January
2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

and
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Employment  of  Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and
Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Guidelines: 

Selection 

the 

recommendations 

"Environmental  Protection  Guidelines"  and  the  acronym  "EPG"  mean  the
Guidelines  prepared  and  adopted  by  Ningxia dated  December  18,  2011,  setting
forth,  inter alia, the  assessment  of  the  environmental  impacts  of the
impacts  and
Project, 
enhancement  of  positive  impacts  based  on  such  assessment,  including,
measures  for  avoidance  of or  mitigation  against  adverse  impact  on  natural
habitats  or  physical  cultural  resources  as  well  as  arrangements  for  reporting
and  monitoring  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the
agreement  of the  Bank.

for  mitigation  of  adverse 

and  maintaining 

inter  clia,  the  policies,  procedures  and  guidelines 

"Financial  Management  Manual"  means  the  Financial  Management  Manual
for  the  Project  dated  November  2,  2011,  prepared  and  adopted  by  Ningxia
for
which  sets  out, 
to  be
establishing 
implemented  by  it  in  carrying  out  the  Project,  including  internal  controls,
accounting  procedures,  find  and  asset  management,  withdrawal  application
procedures,  financial  reporting,  and  auditing  arrangements  as  the  same  may  be
revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  such  term
includes  all  attachments  arid  annexes  supplemental  to  such Manual.

financial  management 

system 

a 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction
and  Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  operating  costs
under  the  Project,  based  on  annual  work  plans  and  budgets  as  approved  by
the  Bank,  and  incurred  by  Ningxia  for  purposes  of Project  preparation,
implementation,  management,  coordination  and  monitoring  and  evaluation,
on  account  of  utilities  and  supplies,  communications,  vehicle  operation  and
maintenance,  office  space  rental,  building  and  equipment  maintenance,

- 17-

3, 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

public  awareness-related  media  expense,  international  and  domestic  travel
and  subsistence,  and  salaries  of contractual  and  temporary  staff, but  excluding
salaries,  fees,  honoraria,  bonuses, and  any  other salary  supplements  of members
of the  Borrower's  and  Ningxia's  civil  service.

"Ningxia"  means  the  Borrower's  Ningxia  Hui  Autonomous  Region,  and
any  successor thereto.

the  acronym 

"PMP"  mean 

the  Pest
"Pest  Management  Plan"  and 
Management  Plan  dated  December  18,  2011,  prepared  and  adopted  by
Ningxia  and  to  be  implemented  or  caused  to  be  implemented  by  it  for
the  design,
integrated  pest  management  activities  during 
improving 
including  environmental,
construction  and  operation  of 
occupational  and  safety  risk  assessment,  capacity  building,  grievance  handling
mechanisms,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements,  as  such  plan
may  be  amended  from  ti  ne  to  time  with  the  prior  written  approval  of  the
Bank;  and  such  Plan  includes  all  attachments  and  annexes  supplemental  to
such  plan.

the  Project, 

"Process  Framework"  means  the  framework,  dated  November  25,  2011,
prepared  and  adopted  by  Ningxia,  which  sets  out,  inter  alia,  the  policies  and
procedures  for  closure  of  open  access  areas  for  vegetation  rehabilitation  and
protection,  the  mechanisms  for  information  dissemination,  training,  and  the
participation  of Project  Affected  Persons  in  the  design  and  implementation
of  the  Project,  the  provisions  for  appropriate  compensatory  and  mitigation
ivelihoods  of  such  Persons  are  compensated  and
measures  to  ensure  that 
negative  livelihood  impacts  brought  about  by  the  Project  are  avoided  or
the  monitoring  and  reporting  procedures,  and  grievance
mitigated, 
handling  mechanism,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with
the  agreement  of the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all  attachments  and
annexes  supplemental  to  such Framework.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,
Works  and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and
Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Manual"  means the  Manual  dated  December 23,  2011,  prepared
and  adopted  by  Ningxia,  which  sets  out,  inter  alia, the  detailed  policies,
procedures  and  arrangements  for  carrying  out  procurement  under  the
Project,  including  the  documents  to  be  prepared,  the  reviews  to  be  carried
out,  the  selection  procecures  to  be  followed,  and  supervision  and  dispute
resolution  mechanisms.

13. 

the  Procurement  Plan  of  Ningxia  dated
"Procurement  Plan"  means 
December  23,  2011,  for  the  Project,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of

- 18-

4. 

5. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in  accordance
with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Affected  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution
of  the  Project  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts
caused  by  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to  open  access  areas,  resulting
in  adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood  of such  persons.

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  Project  agreement  for  the  Project  between
Ningxia  and  the  Bank  dated  the  same  date  as  this  Agreement,  as  such
agreement  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
approval  of the  Bank,  arid  such  term  includes  all  appendices,  schedules
and  agreements  supplemental  to  said  Agreement.

"Project  Counties"  means  collectively  the  following  seven  administrative
in  accordance  with  criteria  and
areas  of  Ningxia  selected  by  Ningxia 
procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for  carrying  out  the  Project  as  set  out  in
the  Project  Implementation  Manual:  Lingwu  City;  Litong  District;  Pingluo
County;  Qingtongxia  City;  Xingqing  District;  Yanchi  County;  and
Zhongwei  City;  and  "Project  County"  means  individually  any  such  area.

the 

site 

standards  and 

treatmen:  models, 

"Project  Implementation  Manual"  means  the  Manual  dated  March  15,  2012,
prepared  and  adopted  by  Ningxia  which  sets  out  the  criteria,  procedures  and
arrangements  in  accordance  with  which  the  activities  under  the  Project  will
implemented,  supervised  and
be  screened,  selected,  appraised,  approved, 
sequencing
technical 
evaluated, 
methodology  to  be  applied  for  the  plantation  and  other  activities  under  the
the
Project, 
responsibilities  of the  agencies  and entities  involved  in  different  aspects  of
Project  management  and  implementation,  the  training  and  capacity  building
activities  to  be  carried  oul  and  includes,  inter alia, the  detailed  arrangements
the  Environmental
for  applying 
Protection  Guidelines,  the  Process  Framework,  the  Procurement  Manual,
the  Procurement  Plan,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with
the  agreement  of  the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all  attachments  and
annexes  supplemental  to  such  Manual.

the  Financial  Management  Manual, 

contract  management 

procedures, 

selection 

and 

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  Ningxia.

"Selected  Areas"  means  the  areas  selected  by  Ningxia  within  the  Project
Counties  in  accordance  with  criteria  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
as  set  out  in  the  Project  Implementation  Manual,  for  carrying  out
plantation  and  vegetation  rehabilitation  activities  under  the  Project  over
land  belonging  to  forest  farms of the  Project  Counties  and  farmer  collectives

- 19  -

following  a  due  process  of assessment,  consultation  and  participation  under
arrangements  as  set  out  in said Manual.

20. 

"Training"  means  for  purposes  of  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  the  Loan
Agreement,  the  reasonable  cost  of travel,  lodging  and  per  diem  of trainees
attending  training,  study tours,  workshops  and  seminars,  the  cost of organizing
training  and  seminars,  and  the  cost  of  delivering  training
workshops, 
(excluding  consultants  fees)  such  as  rental  of  training  space  and  training
equipment  and  other  logis:ical  costs,  all  as  yearly  budgeted  and  approved  by
Ningxia  and the  Bank.

