OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8316-PY

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for the  Sustainable Agriculture
and Rural  Development  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF PARAGUAY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

C, 

2013

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  datedDe cQ "er;  2013,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  PARAGUAY
("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of  providing  additional  financing  for
activities  related  to  the  Original  Project  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).
The Borrower  and the  Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

terms  used 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees to  lend  to the  Borrower, on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  million  Dollars  (US$
100,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due and  such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates  are April  15  and October  15  in  each  year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 

in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule set forth in  Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any  time request  any  of the following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting  of limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar  on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  without any  limitation  or  restriction  upon  any  of its other  obligations  under
the  Original  Loan  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  carry  out Parts  1, 2  and  3
the
of  the  Project  through  MAG,  with  the  assistance  of  DINCAP  and 
participation  of INDI  in  accordance  with  the  INDI  Participation  Agreement;  (b)
carry  out Part 4  (a)  of the  Project  through  MAG  and  MOF,  with the  assistance  of
DINCAP  and  the  participation  of SENACSA,  in accordance  with the  SENACSA
Participation  Agreement;  and  (c)  carry  out  Parts  4  (b)  and  5 through  MAG,  with
the  assistance  of DINCAP,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of
the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower,  through  MAG,  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
in
Borrower, 
accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

through  MAG,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project 

is  carried  out 

-3-

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events of Suspension  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

That  INDI  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of its obligations  under
the  INDI  Participation  Agreement.

That  SENACSA  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of its  obligations
under the  SENACSA  Participation  Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Events  of  Acceleration  consist  of,  namely,  that  any  event
specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  or (b)  of Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is
continuing  for a period  of 60  days  after notice  of the  event  has been  given  by  the
Bank to  the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

The  INDI  Participation  Agreement  has  been  amended  by  the  parties
thereto,  in a  manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

The  Operational  Manual  has  been  updated  by  the  Borrower,  in  a manner
acceptable  to the Bank.

5.02.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this  Agreement,  but  in  no
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan
which  expire  on June 5, 2015.

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is its Minister  of Finance.

6.02.  The  Borrower's Address is:
Ministry  of Finance
(Ministerio de Hacienda)
Chile  128
Asunci6n,  Paraguay
Facsimile:  595  (21)  448-283

-4-

By

By

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  6Uho'0\  Q 
written.

T. 

G. 

,as  of the  day  and  year  first  above

REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

Authorized  Ikepresentative

Name: 

_v} 

_ 

_T.,_

0 

"v -

0 

Title: 

,n  1 C 

0 C

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Re  resentative

Name: 

______________foc)L

Title:  Couy  Yg 

TA 

c 

-

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  in  a  sustainable  way  the  socio-
economic  condition  of  Small-Scale  Farmers  and  Indigenous  Communities  in  the  Project
Area,  through  the  support  of  actions  to  strengthen  their  community  organization,  self-
governance,  and access  to  markets  and value  chains.

The Project consists  of the  following parts:

Part 1. Community Organization Development  and Capacity Building

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

social 

procedures; 

Indigenous  Communities, 

implementation  of  a  training  program,  which  program
Design  and 
consists  of  the  provision  of  training  to  Project  extensionists  (such  as,
organization
microcatchment, 
technicians  and  rural  communities  in  Target  Areas),  MAG's  personnel
assigned  to  the  Project,  and  other  Project  stakeholders  on,  inter alia: (i)
(ii)  Project
conceptual  and  methodological  aspects  of  the  Project; 
and
administrative 
strengthening  of  local  organizations;  (iv)  principles  and  practices  of
participatory  rural  assessments,  formation  and  operation  of CDGs,  lAs,
MDCs  and  MSCs,  participatory  planning,  and  stakeholder  monitoring;
(v)  sustainable  natural  resources  management  practices;  (vi)  on-farm
production  and  off-farm  income  generation;  (vii)  gender  sensitization;
(viii)  animal  production  and  health  practices;  (ix)  agricultural  production
techniques  and  good  practices;  and  (x)  any  other  area  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  all  for  the  benefit  of  Small-Scale  Farmers  and  Indigenous
Communities.

development 

community 

(iii) 

Design  and  implementation  of an  environmental  education  program  to,
inter alia, raise  awareness  amongst  Project  stakeholders  on  the  need  to
address  environmental  problems  that would  improve  the  livelihood  of the
rural  population.

(i) Provision  of technical  assistance:  (A)  to  assist  MAG  in the  selection
of  microcatchment  areas,  areas  in  which  Indigenous  Communities  are
located  and  Target  Areas;  (B)  to  improve  the production  capacity  and the
sustainable  management  of  natural  resources  of  Small-Scale  Farmers,
Indigenous  Communities,  and  other  Project  stakeholders  acceptable  to
the  Bank;  and  (C)  to  establish  MDCs  and  CDGs (as  legal  entities)  in  the
areas  mentioned  in  (A)  herein,  as  applicable;  and  (ii)  strengthening  of
existing  CDGs,  lAs  and  MSCs,  all  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  set
forth  in the  Operational  Manual,  and  in  a manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

-6-

Design and  implementation  of a  financial  education  program  aimed  at,  inter alia,
increasing  knowledge  amongst  Project  stakeholders  about 
financial  and
commercial  matters  to  improve  their  ability  to  optimize  the  monetary  benefits
from  their  agricultural  production  and marketing.

Part 2.  Rural Extension  and  Adaptive Research

(A) 

information  workshops  and  participatory  rural
(i)  Carrying  out  of: 
assessments  in  the  selected  areas  referred  to  in  Part  1 (c)  (i) (A)  of the  Project;
(B)  an  exchange  of  experiences  program  among  Small-Scale  Farmers,
Indigenous  Communities  and  other  Project  stakeholders;  and  (C)  complementary
socioeconomic  and  environmental  diagnostic  surveys/censuses  in  the  selected
areas  referred  to  in  Part  1  (c)  (i)  (A)  of  the  Project;  (ii)  design  of  resource
mapping  of the  selected  areas  referred  to  in  Part  1 (c)  (i) (A)  of the  Project;  and
(iii)  provision  of technical  assistance  and/or  training  to  Beneficiaries  in:  (A)  the
preparation  of  MDPs,  MIPs  and  ICDPs;  (B)  the  formulation  of  Community
Subprojects  which  shall  be  based  on  the  corresponding  MDP,  MIP  and  ICDP;
the  adoption  of
and 
productive  and  environmental  practices,  and  the  improvement  of  marketing  in
respect  of said  subprojects.

implementation  of  Community  Subprojects, 

the 

(C) 

(i) Carrying  out of on-farm  technology  validation  trials  for:  (A)  the  improvement
and  validation  of  existing  agricultural  production  technologies  and  practices
aimed  at  diversifying  production  and  addressing  farming  issues  raised  by  Small-
Indigenous  Communities,  and  other  Project  stakeholders
Scale  Farmers, 
the  adaptation  and  validation  of  existing
acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (B) 
productive  systems  to  local  agro-ecological  conditions  and/or  to  Small-Scale
Farmers'  production  systems;  and  (ii)  carrying  out  of the  following  activities  to
address  technical  and  social  constraints:  (A)  studies  to  identify  and  develop
specialized  markets  (including  access  to  the  same)  and  inclusive  value  chains;
(B)  assessments  on  land  tenure;  (C)  studies  to  support  mainstreaming  of natural
resources  management  and  rural  development  strategies  into  national policy;  (D)
feasibility  studies  to  identify  opportunities  for  new  products  in  the  areas  referred
to  in  Part  1 (c)  (i)  (A)  of the  Project;  (E)  assessments  of  alternative  financial
mechanisms  so  that  the  microcatchment  development  assistance  to  be  provided
under the  Project  is  sustainable;  and  (F)  any other  study  acceptable  to the  Bank.

(c) 

Strengthening  the  operational  capacity  of the  ZCUs.

Part 3.  Sustainable  Rural Development  Fund

Provision  of Community  Grants to  carry  out  demand-driven  investments,  which
investments  consist  of, inter alia: (i) home  improvements  and  construction  of sanitation
infrastructure;  (ii)  adoption  of sustainable  land  use  practices;  (iii)  increasing  crop  and
livestock  production;  (iv)  post-harvest  food  processing  and  storage;  (v)  animal  health

-7-

vaccination  and  identification  of tagging  activities,  including  the  provision  of training on
animal  health  and  production  issues;  (vi)  forest  and  water  conservation  practices  at  farm
levels;  (vii)  diversification  and  improvement  of production  systems  to  increase  income;
(viii)  construction  of  minor  water  supply  facilities;  (ix)  acquisition  and  utilization  of
minimum  tillage  equipment;  (x)  establishment  of micro-enterprises;  (xi)  rehabilitation  of
roads  (within  the  existing  right  of  way);  (xii)  establishment  of  nurseries  and/or
greenhouses;  (xiii)  construction  of waste  disposal  facilities,  and  recycling  of  pesticide
containers;  and  (xiv)  any  other  investment  acceptable to  the Bank.

Part 4.  Animal  Health Improvement

Strengthening  of the  institutional  and  operational  capacity  of:  (a)  SENACSA,
through,  inter alia: (i) the  improvement  of its  management  information  system  (Sistema
de  Informacidn  de  Gestidn de  Oficinas Regionales-SIGOR); (ii)  the  improvement  of
laboratory  facilities;  (iii)  the  improvement  of  selected  animal  health  control  posts  and
units  located  within  the  Borrower's  territory;  and  (iv)  the  acquisition  and  utilization  of
equipment,  and  the  provision  of technical  assistance  and  training  required  therefor;  (b)
VMG,  through,  inter alia: (i) the  construction  of small  infrastructure  (as  approved by  the
Bank);  (ii)  the  improvement  of the  Borrower's  genetic program  for small-holders;  (iii) the
improvement  of  training  programs  on  animal  husbandry,  animal  health,  artificial
insemination  and  processing  of agricultural  products  for  small-holder  livestock  farmers;
(iv)  the  improvement  of pasture  programs  for small-holder  livestock  farmers;  and  (v)  the
acquisition  and  utilization  of  equipment,  and  the  provision  of technical  assistance  and
training required  therefor.

Part 5.  Project Management,  Monitoring and Evaluation

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

institutional,  operational,  administrative  and
(i)  Strengthening  of  MAG's 
financial  management  capacity  to  enable  MAG  (including  the  operational  and
administrative  capacity  of  the  PMU,  the  Sub-UAF  and  the  UOC)  to  assist  the
Borrower  in  the  implementation,  management,  evaluation  and  monitoring  of the
Project;  (ii)  carrying  out  of  semi-annual  audits  of  Part  3  of  the  Project  in  a
manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (iii)  carrying  out  of  annual  performance
assessments  of the  PMU,  the  Sub-UAF,  the  UOC  and the  ZCUs.

Design  and  implementation  of a  training program  for  MAG's  selected  personnel
on  Project management,  public  sector  accounting,  organization  and  procurement,
(including
treasury  management,  and 
accounting).

financial  management  and  control 

Establishment  and  implementation  of:  (i)  a  Project  management  information
system;  (ii)  a  geographic  information  system;  and  (iii)  a  Project  monitoring  and
evaluation  system.

-8-

(d) 

Design  and  implementation  of  a  communication  and  dissemination  strategy,
which  strategy  consists  of,  inter  alia: (i)  the  carrying  out  of  Project  launch
workshops,  informational  workshops,  educational  programs,  and  promotional
and  animal  health  campaigns  at the  national,  departmental  and  local  levels;  (ii)
the  establishment  and  operation  of a  Project  internet  home page;  (iii)  the printing
and  distribution  of informational  material;  and  (iv)  any  other  activity  of similar
nature acceptable  to the  Bank.

-9-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  and Other Arrangements

A. 

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in
accordance  with the  provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

B. 

(a) 

For  purposes  of enabling  INDI  and  SENACSA  to  continue  providing the
required  assistance  under  the  Project,  the  Borrower:  (i)  through  MAG,
shall  amend  the  INDI  Participation  Agreement  with  INDI;  and  (ii)
through  MAG  and  MOF,  shall,  not  later  than  one  month  after  the
Effective  Date,  amend  the  SENACSA  Participation  Agreement  with
SENACSA,  all under terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank, which
shall  include,  inter alia, those  set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  the  Original
Loan  Agreement  and  the  pertinent  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  as
applicable 
the  Project,
respectively.

INDI  and  SENACSA's 

roles  under 

to 

(b) 

the 

INDI  Participation  Agreement 

(i)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations
the  SENACSA
under 
Participation  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the
Borrower  and  the  Bank and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan;  and
(ii)  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
assign,  amend,  abrogate,  repeal,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the
INDI  Participation  Agreement  and/or  the  SENACSA  Participation
Agreement,  or any  provision  thereof.

and 

C. 

(a) 

As  part  of  the  approval  of  Community  Subprojects,  the  Borrower,
through  MAG,  shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

the  pertinent
carry  out  an  environmental 
Community  Subproject  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Environmental  and  Social Management  Framework;

screening  of 

in  (i)  herein  has
if  the  environmental  screening  mentioned 
identified  potential  negative  environmental  impacts  (in  which
case  the  results  of  the  screening  shall  include,  inter alia, the
pertinent  mitigatory  measures  and  their  implementation  timing),
cause  the  pertinent  Beneficiary  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the
Bank  an  environmental  management  plan,  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  and  thereafter  carry  out  said  plan  in  accordance  with  its
terms  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  the
terms  of the  corresponding  Community  Subproject  Agreement;
and

- 10  -

(iii) 

upon  completion  of said  environmental  screening  and  approval
of the  pertinent  Community  Subproject,  and  prior to  the carrying
out  of said Community  Subproject,  the Borrower,  through  MAG,
the  corresponding
shall  provide  a  Community  Grant 
Beneficiary  under  a  community  subproject  agreement 
(the
Community  Subproject  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between
the  Borrower,  through  MAG,  and  said  Beneficiary  under  terms
and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter
alia, those  set  forth in Schedule  4 to this Agreement.

to 

(b) 

(i) 

its
The  Borrower  shall  exercise 
obligations  under  each  Community  Subproject  Agreement  in
such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower  and  the
Bank and to  accomplish the  purposes  of the Loan;  and

its  rights  and  carry  out 

(ii) 

except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
assign,  amend,  abrogate,  repeal,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to
enforce  any  Community  Subproject  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.

D. 

In  addition  to  the  provisions  of Section  I.C  above,  the  Borrower,  through  MAG,
shall  refrain  from  presenting  to  the  Bank  Loan  withdrawal  applications  and/or
withdrawing  Loan  proceeds  from  the  Designated  Account  (all  under  Category
to  finance  any  given  Community  Subproject,  until  the  Borrower  has
(3)) 
furnished  to  the  Bank,  evidence,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  indicating  that  the
auditor to  carry  out the  audits  referred  to  in Part 5 (a)  (ii)  of the  Project  has  been
hired as provided  in Section  II.B.4  (a)  of this  Schedule.

E. 

(a) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,
the  Borrower  shall:  (i)  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of:  (A)  the  Operational  Manual;  (B)  the  Indigenous  Peoples
and  Social
Planning  Framework; 
Management  Framework.

the  Environmental 

and 

(C) 

(b) 

In  case  of any  conflict  amongst  the terms  of the  Operational  Manual,  the
Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework  and  those  of this  Agreement,  the  terms  of this
Agreement  shall  prevail.

F. 

(a) 

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall:  (i)  operate  and  maintain  within
DINCAP,  at  all  times  during  Project  implementation:  (A)  a  Project
management  unit  (the  PMU);  (B)  an  administrative  financial  sub-unit
(the  Sub-UAF);  and  (C)  a  procurement  unit  (the  UOC),  all  with  a
structure,  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the Bank,  including
those  referred  to  in  Part  5 (a)  (i)  of the  Project  and  in  the  Operational

- 11 -

(b) 

(c) 

Manual;  and  (ii) within  the  structure  of the  PMU,  operate  and  maintain,
at all  times during  Project implementation,  at least  five  zone  coordination
units  (the  ZCUs),  all  with  a  structure,  functions  and  responsibilities  set
forth  in the  Operational  Manual.

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  ensure  that:  (i)  the  PMU  is  at  all
times  during  Project implementation  headed  by  a Project  coordinator and
assisted  by  professional  staff  (including,  inter  alia,  an  indigenous
peoples  specialist)  and  administrative  staff;  (ii)  each  ZCU  is  at all  times
during  Project implementation  headed  by  a  zone coordinator  and  assisted
by  administrative  staff  (including,  inter alia, a  procurement  assistant);
(iii)  the  Sub-UAF,  is  at all  times  during  Project  implementation  headed
by  a  director  and  assisted  by  professional  staff (including,  inter alia, a
financial  management  specialist  and  a  disbursement  specialist)  and
administrative  staff;  and  (iv)  the  UOC,  is  at  all  times  during  Project
implementation  headed  by  a  director  and  assisted  by  professional  staff
(including,  inter alia, a  procurement  specialist)  and  administrative  staff,
terms  of  reference,  and
all  of  the  above 
qualifications  and  experience,  acceptable  to the  Bank.

in  numbers  and  with 

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  undertakes  that,  unless  the  Bank  may
otherwise  agree,  the  PMU,  ZCU,  Sub-UAF  and  UOC  personnel  assigned
to  the  Project  shall  only  be  hired based  on  professional  criteria and  shall
only  be  replaced  for reasons  related  to  performance.  The  performance  of
said  personnel  of the  PMU,  ZCU,  Sub-UAF  and  UOC  shall  continue  to
be  assessed once  a  year as  referred  to  in  Section  I.K  of this  Schedule  in  a
manner and  under a  criteria  acceptable to  the Bank.

G. 

H. 

I. 

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall,  operate  and  maintain,  at  all  times  during
Project  implementation:  (a) a  web  page,  on terms  and  in  a manner  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  for purposes  of disseminating  Project  information to  stakeholders;  (b)  a
for  purposes  of  storing
filing  system,  acceptable 
digital 
the  Project's  procurement  process  and  contract
related  to 
documentation 
invoices,  receipts,  and  contract
management  (such  as,  payment  certificates, 
guarantees);  and  (c)  the  Project's  management  information  system  referred  to  in
Part 5 (c)  (i) of the Project acceptable  to the  Bank.

the  Bank, 

to 

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall,  and  shall  cause  each  Beneficiary  to  ensure
that  any  works under the Project  do not involve  any  Resettlement.

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  I.C  (a)  of  this  Schedule,  the
Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its  review  and  approval,
the  first  three  proposals  in  respect  of the  Community  Subprojects  referred  to  in
Section  I.C  (a)  of this Schedule.

- 12  -

The  Borrower,  through  its  MOF,  shall  follow  a  mechanism  acceptable  to  the
Bank for the  payment  of Foreign Expenditures.

The Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  hire  a human  resources  firm acceptable  to  the
Bank,  and  under terms  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  assist  MAG  in,  inter alia, the
selection  of  the  Borrower's  civil  servants  and  individual  consultants  for  the
Project.

Section  H. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and  Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the
Project and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on the  basis  of the Project  indicators  set  forth
in  the  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one
calendar  semester  (starting  with  the  same  calendar  semester  of  the  Effective
Date),  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later than  forty  five  calendar  days
after the end  of the period  covered by  such report.

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  II.A.1  above,  the  Borrower,
through MAG,  shall:  (a)  not later than  December  31,  2015,  prepare  and  furnish to
the  Bank,  a mid-term  consolidated  report  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as the
Bank  may  reasonably  request,  on  the  progress  made  by  the  Borrower  in  the
carrying  out  of the  Project, as  of the  date  of presentation  of said  report;  and  (b)
not  later  than  March  31,  2018,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  a  final
consolidated  report  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as the  Bank may reasonably
request,  on  the  results  and  impact  of the  Project  as  of the  date  of presentation  of
said  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09
of the  General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  MAG,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the  Project
Report,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project covering each  calendar
semester,  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year

J. 

K. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

A. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

- 13  -

of the Borrower.  The audited  Financial  Statements  for each such  period  shall  be
furnished to  the Bank not  later than  six  months after the  end  of such  period.

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Section  II.B.3  of this  Schedule,  and  for
purposes of carrying out  Part  5  (a)  (ii)  of the  Project, the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  hire
independent  financial  auditor  with  experience  and  qualifications  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  for  purposes  of carrying  out the  semi-annual  audits  referred  to  in  said
Part  of the  Project;  (b)  each  calendar  semester  have  Part  3  of the  Project  audited
by  the  auditor mentioned  in  (a)  herein,  in  accordance  with terms  of reference  set
forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  consistently  applied  auditing  financial
standards,  all  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (c)  not  later  than  forty  five  calendar
days  after  the  completion  of each  said  audit,  furnish  or  cause  to  be  furnished  to
the  Bank  the  information  as  so  audited,  and  such  other  information  concerning
the  audited  information  and  such  auditors,  as  the  Bank  may  from  time  to  time
reasonably  request.

Section III. 

Procurement

General

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
consulting  services  required  for the  Project and  to be  financed  out of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank of particular
contracts  refer  to the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III, 
IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as  the case  may  be.

Special  Provisions.  Without limitation  to the  provisions  in  Section  III A.1  and  2
of  this  Schedule,  the  following  additional  provisions  shall  also  govern  the
procurement  of  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and  consultants'  services
under the  Project (as  the case  may be):

(a) 

procurement  of  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and  consultants'
services  (in  respect  of  firms)  shall  be  carried  out  using:  (i)  standard
bidding  documents,  and  standard  requests  for  quotations/proposals  (as

(b) 

(c) 

- 14  -

the  case  may  be),  which  shall  all  include,  inter alia, a  settlement  of
dispute  provision; 
forms,  and  model
(ii)  model  bid  evaluation 
quotations/proposals  evaluation  forms  (as  the  case  may  be);  and  (iii)
model  contract  forms,  all acceptable  to the  Bank;

bidders  or  consultants  (as  the  case  may  be)  shall  not,  as  a  condition  for
submitting bids  or proposals  and/or  for contract  award:  (i) be required  to
be  registered  in  Paraguay;  (ii)  have  a  representative  in  Paraguay;  (iii)  be
associated  or  subcontract  with  Paraguayan  suppliers,  contractors  or
consultants;  and  (iv)  be required to  furnish evidence  to  the  Borrower  that
they  have purchase  the  standard bidding  documents;

(ii) 

for 

standard  bidding  documents 

without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of paragraph  (a)  above:  (i) standard
bidding  documents  for  the  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  under  International  Competitive  Bidding  procedures
shall  stipulate  that  the  period  for  submitting  bids  shall  be  at  least  45
calendar  days  from  the  date  of  notification  and  advertising  of  the
Specific  Procurement  Notice  as  referred  to  in  paragraph  2.8  of  the
the
Procurement  Guidelines; 
procurement  of goods,  works  and non-consulting  services  under National
Competitive  Bidding  procedures  which:  (A)  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting services  are estimated to  cost $100,000  equivalent  or more  per
contract,  shall  stipulate  that  the  period  for  submitting  bids  shall  be  at
least  30  calendar days  from  the  date of notification  and  advertising of the
specific  procurement  notice;  and  (B)  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  are estimated  to  cost  less  than $100,000  equivalent  per contract,
shall  stipulate  that  the  period  for  submitting  bids  shall  be  at  least  20
calendar  days  from the  date of notification  and  advertising  of the specific
procurement  notice;  and  (iii)  standard  requests  for  quotations  for  the
procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  under
Shopping  procedures  which  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services
are  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $20,000  equivalent  per  contract,  shall
stipulate  that  the  period  for  submitting  quotations  shall  be  at  least  10
calendar days  from the date of notification  and  advertising  of the  specific
procurement  notice;

(d) 

(i)  the  Borrower,  through  MAG,  shall  supply  the  SEPA  with  the
information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan  within  30  days
after  the  Project  has  been  approved  by  the  Bank;  and  (ii)  update  the
Procurement  Plan  at  least  biannually,  or  as  required  by  the  Bank,  to
reflect  the  actual  Project  implementation  needs  and  progress  and  shall
the  updated
supply 
Procurement  Plan  immediately  thereafter;  and

information  contained 

the  SEPA  with  the 

in 

(e) 

consultants  shall not be required to  submit bid  or performance  securities.

- 15  -

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

and  Non-consulting
Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works 
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
(a)  National  Competitive
those  contracts  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan: 
Bidding;  (b)  Shopping;  (c)  Direct  Contracting;  and  (d)  Community  Participation
procedures  which  have  been found  acceptable  to  the Bank.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Least  Cost  Selection;  (b)  Single-source  Selection  of
consulting  firms;  (c)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the
Consultant  Guidelines  for the Selection  of Individual Consultants;  and (d)  Single-
source  procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall set  forth those  contracts which  shall be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the  table  in paragraph  2  below.

- 16  -

2. 

The following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category.

Amount of the Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

3,500,000 

100%

27,000,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works  non-consulting 
services, consultants'  services,
Operating Costs  and Training
and/or Workshops  for Part  1 of the
Project

(2)  Goods,  works,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services,
Operating  Costs and  Training
and/or Workshops  for Part 2  of the
Project

(4)  Goods,  works,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services  and
Training  and/or Workshops  for
Part  4  of the  Project

(5) Goods,  works,  non-consulting 
services,  consultants'  services,
Operating  Costs  and  Training
and/or Workshops  for Part 5  of the
Project

(3) Community  Grants 

60,000,000 

0 

100%

100%

7,100,000 

100%

(6)  Unallocated 

(7)  Front-end  Fee 

2,150,000

250,000 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

100,000,000

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
this
2.03 
Section 
accordance
in 
Agreement 
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of  the
General  Conditions

of 

- 17-

For purposes  of this table:

(a) 

(b) 

B. 

1 .

the  term  "Training  and/or  Workshops"  means  expenditures  (other  than  those for
consultants'  services)  incurred  by  the  Borrower  or  the  Beneficiaries,  all  as
approved  by the  Bank on  the  basis of an  annual  budget  acceptable  to  the Bank, to
finance  reasonable  transportation  costs  and  per-diem of trainees  and  trainers  (if
applicable),  training  and/or  workshop  registration  fees,  and  rental  of  training
and/or workshop  facilities  and  equipment  under the  Project;  and

(i) 

the  Project, 

the  Borrower, 

through  MAG,  absent 

the  term  "Operating  Costs"  means reasonable  recurrent  expenditures,  based on  an
annual  budget  previously  approved  by  the  Bank,  that  would  not  have  been
incurred  by: 
for
transportation  and per-diem costs of the  PMU,  the  Sub-UAF,  the UOC  and ZCUs
staff,  Project  administration  costs 
(including  office  rent),  operation  and
maintenance  of  office  equipment,  non-durable  goods  and  salaries  for  civil
servants  assigned  to  carry  out  administrative  (e.g.  secretarial)  responsibilities
under the  Project (but excluding  any  other type  of civil servant  salaries,  and/or all
civil  servants  bonuses  (such  as  remuneraci6n  extraordinaria, remuneracion
adicional, gratificaciones por resultados, bonificaciones por responsabilidad en
el cargo y gastos de residencia) to the  Borrower's  personnel  and/or to  individual
the  Beneficiaries,  absent  the
consultants  hired  under 
respective  Community  Subproject,  for,  inter alia: (A)  vehicle  rental,  operation
and  maintenance;  (B)  in-country  travel  per  diem  and  allowances;  (C)  banking
insurance  costs;  and  (D)  advertisement,  communication  and
services  and 
dissemination  expenses.

the  Project);  or  (ii) 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  made  prior to the date  of this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing  Date  is  December  29, 2017.

- 18-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Installment Share
(Expressed as  a Percentage)
2.27%

Principal Payment Date 

On each  April  15  and  October  15: 
Beginning  on April  15,  2022
through October 15,  2022
On each  April  15  and  October  15: 
Beginning  on  April 15,  2023
through  October  15, 2024
On  each  April  15  and  October  15: 
Beginning  on April  15,  2025
through October  15,  2032
On  each  April  15  and  October  15: 
Beginning on April  15,  2033
through  April 15,  2043
On October  15,  2043 

0.00%

3.97%

1.44%

1.7%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such date  in accordance  with paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share specified  in the table  in  paragraph  I of this

- 19-

Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred to  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn within  two  calendar months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second Principal  Payment
Date  following  the date  of withdrawal.

3. 

(a) 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on  or after the respective  Principal  Payment Date,  the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in more  than one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

- 20  -

SCHEDULE  4

Terms and Conditions of Community  Subproject Agreements

Each  Community  Subproject  Agreement  shall  contain,  inter alia, the  following

provisions:

(a) 

the  obligation  of the  Borrower,  through  MAG:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

to  promptly  disburse  to  each  Beneficiary  the  proceeds  of  the
corresponding  Community  Grant  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank;  and

to  ensure  that  the pertinent  Community  Subproject  is  carried  out
the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption
in  accordance  with 
Guidelines  and the pertinent  provisions  of this Agreement;

(b) 

the  right  of the  Borrower, through  MAG,  to  take remedial  actions  against
the  pertinent  Beneficiary  in  case  said  Beneficiary  shall  have  failed  to
comply  with  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  pertinent  Community
Subproject  Agreement  (which  actions  may  include,  inter alia, the partial
or total  suspension  and/or cancellation  of the proceeds  of the  Community
Grant (as the  case  may be),  all  as  previously agreed  with the  Bank);  and

(c) 

the  obligation  of each  Beneficiary:

to  carry  out  the  pertinent  Community  Subproject  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,
financial,  managerial,  environmental,  social  and
economic, 
cultural  property  practices,  including  in  accordance  with  the
to
provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  (applicable 
recipients  of  Loan  proceeds  other  than  the  Borrower),  the
Operational  Manual,  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management
Framework  (including  the  pertinent  environmental  management
Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework
the 
plan)  and 
(including  the pertinent  ICDP);

(ii) 

to  use  the  Community  Grant  for  purposes  of partially  financing
the carrying  out of the  pertinent Community  Subproject;

- 21  -

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

to,  except  as 
the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  provide  a
contribution  of  at  least  15%  of  the  cost  of  the  Community
Subproject  (either  through  an  in-kind  contribution  and/or  the
provision  of  labor),  as  well  as  facilities,  services  and  other
resources,  necessary 
the
or  appropriate 
corresponding  Community  Subproject;

carry  out 

to 

not to  assign,  amend,  terminate,  abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or fail to
enforce  the  Community  Subproject  Agreement  or any  provision
thereof  unless  previously  agreed  by  the  Borrower,  through
MAG,  and the  Bank;

if  applicable,  to  comply,  or  caused  to  be  complied,  with  the
obligations  referred  to  in  Sections  5.05,  5.06  (a),  5.07  , 5.10  and
5.11  of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  land  acquisition,  use
of  goods,  works  and  services,  plans,  documents  and  records,
cooperation  and  consultation  and  visits,  respectively)  in  respect
of said  Community  Subproject;  and

to  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  all  action  to  enable  the  Borrower,
through  MAG,  to  comply  with  its  obligations  referred  to  in  this
Agreement,  as  applicable  to  the  carrying  out  of  Community
Subprojects.

- 22  -

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Beneficiaries"  means:  (a)  a  municipality;  and/or  (b)  an  Indigenous  Community
(as  defined  in  paragraph  16  (b)  of this Appendix);  and/or (c)  an  individual  small
farmer  duly  organized  as  a  legal  entity  (as  covered  by  the  definition  of  Small-
Scale  Farmer  set  forth  in  paragraph  35(a)  of this  Appendix);  and/or  (e)  a  CDG
duly  organized  as  a legal  entity;  and/or (e)  a  group  of CDGs  duly  organized  as  a
legal  entity,  all  of which  have met the  criteria  set forth  in the Operational  Manual
to be benefited  by  a Community  Grant (as  defined  below).

"Category"  means a  category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"CDG"  means  a  community  development  group,  mainly  comprised  of  small
farmers,  which  is  organized  as  a  legal  entity under  the Borrower's  legislation.

"Community  Grant"  means  a  matching  grant  in  cash  made  out  of  part  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  to Category  (3)  and to  be provided  by  MAG  to  the
corresponding  Beneficiary  in  order to  co-finance  the  reasonable  costs  of goods,
works,  non-consulting  services,  consultant  services,  Training  and/or  Workshops
(as  defined  under  Section  IV.A.2.(a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement)  and
Operating  Costs  (as  defined  under  Section  IV.A.2(b)(ii)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement),  required  for  a  Community  Subproject,  in  accordance  with  ceiling
amounts,  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  provided
in  the respective  Community  Subproject  Agreement.

"Community  Subproject"  means  any  of  the  investments  under  Part  3  of  the
Project.

"Community  Subproject  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in
Section  I.C  (a)  (iii)  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"DINCAP"  means the  Direccidn Nacional de Coordinacidn y Administraci6n de
Proyectos, the  National  Directorate  for  the  Coordination  and  Administration  of
Projects  within MAG.

- 23  -

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

(formerly  named
and  Social  Management  Framework" 
"Environmental 
Environmental  Management  Plan under  the  Original Loan  Agreement)  means  the
Borrower's  framework  dated  November  30,  2007  and  updated  on  October  31,
2013,  all  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  framework  sets  forth,  inter alia: (a)  the
guidelines  for  carrying  out  the  environmental  screenings  and  the  preparation  of
to  in  Section  I.C  (a)  (i)  of
the  environmental  management  plans  referred 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  (b) the  actions  to  be  followed  in  connection  with
the  finding  of cultural  property;  (c)  the  actions  to  prevent  forest  degradation  and
promote  reforestation  and  regeneration  of  natural  forests;  (d)  the  actions  to
prevent  natural  habitat conversion  or degradation;  (e)  the  actions to  mitigate  any
environmental  negative  impact  as a result  of the  carrying  out  of the  Project;  and
(f) pest management  practices,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time with the  agreement  of the Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

"IA"  means  an  indigenous  association  (which  association  may  or  may  not  be
organized  as  a  legal  entity  under  the  Borrower's  legislation),  and  located  in  the
Project Area.

"ICDP"  means  any  indigenous  community  development  plan  which  contains,
investments,  priorities  and/or  needs  of  the  corresponding
inter  alia,  the 
Indigenous  Community  (as  defined  below)  and  is  prepared  in  compliance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  in  the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework  (as
defined  below).

"INDI"  means  Instituto  Paraguayo del  Indigena, the  Borrower's  Indigenous
People  Institute.

"INDI  Participation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  dated  March  4,  2010
(including  its Annex  1),  as amended  pursuant to  Section  I.B  (a)  (i) of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement.

"Indigenous  Community"  means:  (a)  an  indigenous  group  without  being  duly
organized  as  a  legal  entity  under  the  Borrower's  legislation;  and/or  (b)  an
indigenous  group  duly  organized  as  a  legal  entity  under  the  Borrower's
in  the  Indigenous  Peoples
legislation  (as  the  term  "indigenous" 
Planning  Framework  (as  defined  below),  as  the  case  may  be,  all  living  in  the
Project  Area,  which  meet  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  to
be benefited  by the  Project.
"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  (formerly  named  Indigenous  Peoples
Development  Plan  under  the  Original  Loan  Agreement)  means  the  Borrower's
framework  dated  December  10,  2007  and  updated  on  November  1, 2013,  all

is  defined 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

- 24 -

acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  framework  sets  forth,  inter alia: (a)  the  measures
the  Borrower,  through  MAG,  will  ensure  that  Indigenous
through  which 
Communities  (as  defined  above)  receive  social  and  economic  benefits  under  the
Project  that  are  culturally  appropriate;  (b)  the  contents  of the  Project  activities
that  will  benefit  Indigenous  Communities;  and  (c)  the  principles,  objectives  and
the  contents  to  be  included  in  each  ICDP  (as  defined  above),  as  said  framework
may be  amended  from time to time  with the agreement  of the Bank.

"MAG"  means  Ministerio de Agricultura y  Ganaderia, the  Borrower's  Ministry
of Agriculture  and  Livestock.

"MDC"  means  a  microcatchment  development  committee  (Junta de  Desarrollo
de Microcuenca) comprised  of representatives  of CDGs  (as  defined  above)  and
other  Project stakeholders  living  within the pertinent  microcatchment  area,  which
committee  may  or may not  be  organized  as  a  legal  entity  under  the  Borrower's
legislation.

"MDP"  means any  microcatchment  development  plan  which  contains,  inter alia,
the  investments,  priorities  and/or  needs  of  any  the  corresponding  MDC  (as
defined  above).

"MIP"  means  any  municipal  investment  plan  which  contains,  inter  alia, the
investments,  priorities  and/or needs  of the corresponding  municipality.

"MOF"  means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance.

Indigenous  Communities  and  MDCs 

"MSC"  means  a  municipal  steering  committee  comprised  of  representatives  of
the
the 
corresponding  municipalities  which  exercise  jurisdiction  over  the  pertinent
microcatchment  area, and  other Project  stakeholders.

as  defined  above), 

(all 

"Operational  Manual"  means the  Borrower's  manual,  dated  December  18,  2007,
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  manual  sets  forth,  inter alia: (a)  the  criteria  for
selecting  the  areas  referred  to  in Part  1 (c)  (i) (A)  of the  Project; (b)  the terms  for
establishing  the  CDGs,  MDCs,  and  MSCs,  including  their  functions  and
responsibilities;  (c)  the  PMU,  the  Sub-UAF  and  the  UOC  structures  and  their
functions  and  responsibilities  (including  those  of  the  ZCUs);  (d) the  Project's
chart  of  accounts  and  internal  controls;  (e)  the  format  of:  (A)  the  unaudited
interim  financial  reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.  B.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement;  and  (B)  the  Financial  Statements;  (f)  the  terms  of  reference  for
carrying  out  the  Project  audits  and  the audits  under  Section  II.B.3  of Schedule  2
to  this  Agreement  and  Part  5 (a)  (ii)  of the  Project,  respectively;  (g)  the  Project
indicators  (including  the  results  framework);  and  (h)  the  Project  disbursement
and  procurement  procedures,  as  said  manual  may  be  updated  and/or  amended
from  time  to time  with the  agreement  of the Bank.

- 25  -

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  loan  agreement  for  the  Original  Project
between the  Borrower and  the Bank,  dated June  24, 2008  (Loan  No.  7503-PA).

"Original  Project"  means  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  the  Original
Loan Agreement.

"PMU" means  the  unit  referred  to  in  Section  I.F  (a)  (i) (A)  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any  successor  thereto acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  November  5, 2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be
updated  from  time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Area"  means  the  Borrower's  departments  of  Caazapd,  Caaguazu,
Canindeyu, Concepci6n, and San Pedro, as such  area may  be  expanded  with  the
agreement  of the  Bank.

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the
Project,  which taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have  their:  (i) standard  of living
adversely  affected;  or  (ii)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (iii)  access  to  productive
temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (iv)  business,
assets  adversely  affected, 
occupation,  work or  place  of residence  or  habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily
or permanently.

"SENACSA"  means  Servicio  Nacional para la  Calidad y  Salud Animal, the
Borrower's National  Service  for Animal  Health  and  Quality.

"SENACSA  Participation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  dated  December
(ii)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
2009,  as  amended  pursuant  to  Section  I.B  (a) 
Agreement.

"SEPA"  means  the  Bank's  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans  Execution
System.

"Small-Scale  Farmer"  means:  (a)  an  individual  small  farmer;  and/or  (b) a  CDG
(as  the  case  may  be),  all living and/or  located  in the Project  Area,  which  meet the
criteria  set forth  in the  Operational  Manual  to be benefited  by  the Project.

- 26  -

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

"Sub-UAF"  means the  sub-unit  referred  to  in  Section  I.F  (a)  (i) (B)  of Schedule  2
to this Agreement.

"Target  Area"  means  any  territory  within  a  Project  Area  characterized  by  high
levels  of poverty  which  meets the criteria  set forth  in the Operational  Manual.

"UOC"  means the  unit referred  to  in  Section  I.F  (a)  (i) (C)  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"VMG"  means  Vice-Ministerio de  Ganaderia, the  Vice  Ministry  of  Livestock
within  MAG  (as  defined  above).

"ZCU" means any  of the  zone  coordination  units referred  to  in  Section  I.E  (a)  (ii)
of Schedule  2  to this Agreement,  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to the Bank.

