OFFICIAL
DOCUMEtATS

LOAN  NUMBER  8257-BR

Loan Agreement

(Development Policies  for the State  of Sergipe  Development  Policy Loan)
(Politicas de Desenvolvimento no Estado de Sergipe)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

STATE OF  SERGIPE

Dated 

,2013

LOAN  AGREEMENT

dated  6  

Agreement 

jf 
the
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank")  and  the  STATE  OF  SERGIPE  ("Borrower")  for  the  purpose  of  providing
financing in  support of the  Program (as defined  in the  Appendix to  this Agreement).

between 

entered 

2013, 

into 

fr) 

WHEREAS  (A)  The  Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis,
inter alia, of:  (a)  the  actions  which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program
and which are  described in Section  I  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement;  (b)  the Guarantor's
maintenance  of an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework;  and  (c)  the  Borrower's
maintenance  of: 
(i)  an  appropriate  expenditure  program;  (ii)  sustainable  debt;  and
(iii)  appropriate  fiscal arrangements  with the  Guarantor.

(B)  the  Borrower  has  informed  the  Bank  that,  upon  deposit  by  the  Bank  of the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  (on  the  terms  set  forth  in  the  Section  II  of  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement  and for  purposes  of supporting  the  Program)  into an  account  to  be designated
by the  Borrower,  the Borrower's  financial  capacity will  be  strengthened  by  expanding  its
fiscal  space  to  finance  further  public  investments  in  accordance  with  the  Borrower's
budgetary  laws.

The Borrower  and the  Bank therefore hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)
constitute an  integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized 

terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  fifty  million  Dollars
($150,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02.  The  Borrower may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the Loan  in  support  of the Program
in  accordance  with  Section  II  of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.  The  Borrower's

10N/

Representative  for  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be
taken pursuant  to this  Section is the  Borrower's  Secretary  of Finance.

2.03.  The Front-end  Fee payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter of one

percent (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided, that  upon a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid when due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment  Dates are January  15  and July  15  in each  year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule set  forth in  Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

request  any  of  the 

The  Borrower may  at any  time,  in  each  case  with prior non-objection  of
the  Guarantor,  through  the  Secretariat  of  the  National  Treasury  of the
following
Guarantor's  Ministry  of  Finance, 
Conversions  of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt
management:  (i)  a  change of the  Loan  Currency  of all or  any  portion  of
the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an
Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the interest  rate basis  applicable  to:
(A)  all or any portion of the  principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all  or any  portion of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based on a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate based on a  Fixed Spread;  and  (iii) the
setting of limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding by  the  establishment  of an Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the

-2-

provisions of Article IV  of the  General Conditions  and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

2.08.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraph  (a)  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  and  unless  otherwise  notified  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate
basis  applicable  to  the aggregate  principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  during
each  Interest  Period  shall  be  changed  from  the  initial  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed
Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread  for the  full  maturity  of such  amount  in
accordance  with the  provisions of Article  IV of the  General Conditions  and of the
Conversion  Guidelines.

2.09.  Without  limitation upon the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions
(renumbered  as such pursuant  to  paragraph  3 of Section II  of the  Appendix  to this
Agreement  and  relating to  Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly  furnish to  the Bank such  information relating to  the provisions  of this
Article II  as the Bank may, from time  to time, reasonably  request.

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.
To this end, and further  to  Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time,  at  the  request  of
either  party,  exchange  views  on:  (i)  the  Guarantor's  macroeconomic
policy  framework;  (ii)  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of  an  appropriate
expenditure  program, 
fiscal
arrangements  with  the  Guarantor;  and  (iii)  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program  and  the  actions  specified  in  Section  I  of
Schedule  1 to this Agreement;

appropriate 

sustainable 

debt, 

and 

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any  situation
that  would  have  the  effect  of  materially:  (i)  impairing  the  Borrower's
ability to  maintain  an  appropriate  expenditure  program,  sustainable  debt,
and/or  appropriate 
fiscal  arrangements  with 
the  Guarantor;  or
(ii)  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or any action taken  under  the

-3-

Program  including  any action  specified  in  Section I of Schedule  1 to  this
Agreement.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension consist of the  following:

A  situation has  arisen which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,
or a significant  part of it,  will be carried out.

An  action  has  been taken  or  a  policy  has  been  adopted  by  the  Borrower
to  reverse  any  action or  policy  under  the  Program,  including  any  action
listed  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement,  in  a  manner  that
would,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  adversely  affect  the  achievement  of
the  objectives  of the Program.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

The  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in
carrying  out  the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Guarantor's
macroeconomic  policy framework.

The  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of:  (i)  an
appropriate 
and
(iii) appropriate  fiscal arrangements  with the Guarantor.

expenditure 

sustainable 

program; 

debt; 

(ii) 

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter consists  of the following, namely, that the  Loan has

been registered  with the  Guarantor's  Central Bank.

5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement,  but  in  no  case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's
approval of the Loan which expire on November 21,  2014.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its Governor.

-4-

cN0

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Avenida Tancredo  Neves No.  151
Centro Administrativo  Augusto  Franco
Aracaju,  SE 49080-900

Facsimile:  (55-79)  3216-7297

6.03.  The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
and  year  first above  written./

s  of the  day

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

By

By

STATE  OF  SERGIPE

Authorized  Representative

-5-

i:~N/C

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan  Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Pro2ram

The  actions  taken by  the Borrower  under the  Program,  aimed  at:  (a)  consolidating  fiscal
management  and  public  sector innovations;  (b)  increasing  access  to  better  quality public
services  in  health  and  education;  and  (c)  promoting  socioeconomic  development  and
inclusive growth  in the interior  of the  Borrower's territory,  include the following:

1. 

Consolidating  Fiscal Management  and Public  Sector  Innovations:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

improved 

through  SEPLAG,  has 

the  quality  of
The  Borrower, 
government-citizen 
services,  standardizing  and  simplifying  service
patterns  for  public  services,  as  evidenced  by:  (i)  the  issuance  of
Borrower's  Decree No.  28837  of October  18,  2012,  and  published  in  the
Borrower's  Diario Oficial on  October  22,  2012,  regulating  a  "one-stop
shop"  model  (Guichi  Unico);  and  (ii) 
the  issuance  of  Borrower's
Portaria No.  3242  of  October  29,  2012,  published  in  the  Borrower's
Diario Oficial on October  31,  2012,  establishing the  charter of services.

through  SEFAZ, 

The  Borrower, 
has  modernized  key  planning,
budgetary, financial  execution,  public  accounting,  and  control  processes,
as  evidenced  by  the  issuance  of  Borrower's  Decree  No.  28830  of
October  16,  2012,  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  Didrio Oficial on
October  18,  2012,  making  compulsory  within  the  Borrower's  executive
branch  the  use  of  a  new  integrated  financial  management  information
system  (i-Gesp).

The  Borrower,  through  SEFAZ,  has  increased  revenues  combating  fiscal
avoidance  through  the  expansion  and  improvement  of  tools  for  tax
arrears  collection  combating  fiscal  avoidance,  as  evidenced  by  the
issuance  of  Borrower's  Decree  No.  28843  of  October  19,  2012,  and
published in the  Borrower's Di6rio Oficial on October 23,  2012.

The  Borrower,  through  SES,  has  improved  the  quality  of maternal  and
newborn  health services  for high-risks  pregnancies,  through its  adhesion
to  the  Rede  Cegonha Program  and  the  organization  of  the  Borrower's
health system into regional  networks,  as evidenced by:

(i) 

The  signature,  by  SES,  on  April  13,  2012,  of an  amendment  to
the  Public  Action  Contract  to  formalize  SES's  adhesion  to  the

-6-

2. 

Increasing Access  to Better Quality Public  Services:

SUS  and related programs,  including  the Rede Cegonha Program
and  the  publication  of  its  excerpt  in  the  Diario Oficial  on
April 25,  2012.

(ii) 

The  issuance, by  SES,  of Deliberations  No. 07  of May 24,  2012,
No.  117  of June  8, 2012,  No.  118  of June  8, 2012,  No.  124  of
June  20,  2012,  No.  125  of  June  21,  2012,  No.  126  of
June 22,  2012,  and  No.  127  of  June  22,  2012,  approving  the
annual  regional  plan  for  the 
implementation  of  the  Rede
Cegonha  Program 
in  the  Borrower's  regions  of  Aracaju,
Itabaiana, Estdncia,  Nossa  Senhora  do  Socorro,  Proprid,
Lagarto and Nossa Senhora da Gl6ria respectively.

The  Borrower,  through  SEED,  has  improved  school  management  in  the
Borrower's  public  schools  network,  through 
the  establishment  of
meritocratic  process  for the  selection  of school  directors  and  the  design
and  use  of  result-based  management  strategies,  as  evidenced  by  the
issuance  of Borrower's  Decree No. 29120 of March  6, 2013,  published  in
the Didrio Oficial on March  8, 2013,  ordering the implementation  of said
management  model  and  strategies  in  the  Borrower's  public  schools
network.

improved 

through  SEED,  has 

in
The  Borrower, 
municipal  elementary  schools, through  the implementation  of the  PNAIC
in  the  Borrower's  territory,  as  evidenced  by  the  issuance  of Portaria
No. 6146  of  October  4,  2012,  published  in  the  Didrio  Oficial  on
October  10, 2012,  establishing  the  state-municipal  collaboration  with
respect to  the PNAIC.

learning  results 

The  Borrower  has  enhanced  the  quality  and  sanitary  conditions  of  the
cattle  milk and dairy  production in the  Borrower's  territory,  as evidenced
by  the  issuance  of Borrower's  Decree  No.  28733  of August  27,  2012,
published  in  the Di6rio Oficial on August  30,  2012, incorporating  family
farmers 
into  the  Dairy  Production  Clusters  (part  of  the  Intensive
Production  System),  providing  sanitary  certification  of dairy  products,
and  supporting  the  genetic  enhancement  of  the  herd  in  the  irrigated
perimeter of the Borrower's  region  of Jabiberi.

The  Borrower  has  promoted  the  sustainable  use  of  environmentally-
sustainable  practices  (green  growth)  in  agriculture  through  the  creation
of a  program  for the  promotion of organic production  for  family  farmers,
and  the  establishment  of  incentives  for  environmentally  sustainable
production,  as  evidenced by  the  enactment  of Borrower's  Law No.  7270

-7-

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

Promoting  Socioeconomic Development  and Inclusive  Growth

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

the  Didrio  Oficial  on
of  November 
November  23,  2011,  creating  incentives  for  sustainable  green  production
and defining  family  agriculture.

2011,  published 

17, 

in 

The  Borrower  has  increased  employment  and  income  opportunities  for
the  most  vulnerable  workers  (i.e.  seasonal  orange  and  sugar  cane
production  workers)  through  its  inclusion  in  literacy  and  technical
capacity  building programs,  as  evidenced by  a list,  certified by  SEIDES,
containing  the  names  of  participants  enrolled  in  the  literacy  programs
(Sergipe Alfabetizado) and the  capacity improvement  courses.

The  Borrower  has  strengthened  its  social  assistance  system  through  the
institutionalization  of  the  state-municipality  co-financing  arrangements
supporting  the Busca Ativa Program in  order to  guarantee  the continuous
identification  and  inclusion  of poor  families  in  the  Guarantor's  single
registry for  social programs  (CadUnico), as evidenced by the  enacting of
Borrower's  Law  No.  7251  of October  31,  2011,  setting  forth the  detailed
resource transfer system to finance  social assistance  in municipalities.

The  Borrower  has  scaled  up  state  and  municipal  support  to  programs
aimed at  protecting  women  in  situations  of violence  and  vulnerability,  as
evidenced  by  the  signing  of  four  technical  cooperation  agreements
between  the  Borrower  and:  (i)  the  municipality  of  Proprid, dated
the  municipality  of  Estancia,  dated
October 
Itabaiana,  dated
the  municipality  of 
December  7,  2012; 
October  9,  2012;  and  (iv)  the  municipality  of  Poqo  Redondo,  dated
October  9,  2012,  decentralizing  women protection  and  support  programs
throughout  the Borrower's  territory.

2012; 

(iii) 

(ii) 

9, 

Section II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

B. 

General.  The  Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance
with the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan  Amounts.  The Loan  (except  for amounts  required  to pay the
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the
amount  of the  Loan to this end  is set  out in the table below:

-8-

Allocations 

(1) Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
(2)  Front-end  Fee 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

Amount  of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)
149,625,000
375,000
150,000,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.

No  withdrawal  shall  be made  of the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank
is satisfied:

(a) 

(b) 

with  the  Guarantor's  maintenance  of an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy
framework;

with  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of: 
(i)  an  appropriate  expenditure
program;  (ii)  sustainable  debt;  and  (iii)  appropriate  fiscal  arrangements
with the Guarantor;  and

(c) 

with the progress achieved  by the  Borrower in carrying  out the Program.

Deposits  of Loan Amounts.  Except as  the Bank  may otherwise  agree:

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an
account  designated  by  the Borrower  and acceptable  to the Bank;  and

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget
management  system, in a  manner acceptable  to  the Bank.

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the  proceeds  of  the
Loan shall  not be used  to  finance Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank determines
at  any  time  that  an  amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an
Excluded  Expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly  upon notice  from the  Bank,
refund  an  amount  equal  to  the  amount  of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts
refunded  to the Bank upon  such request  shall be cancelled.

Closing  Date.  The Closing Date is December 31,  2014.  The Bank will grant an
extension  of the Closing  Date only after the Guarantor's  Ministry of Finance  has
informed  the  Bank that it agrees  with  such an  extension.

C. 

1. 

D. 

1. 

2. 

E. 

F. 

-9-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such repayable  amount  to be  adjusted, as  necessary,  to deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

On each January  15  and July  15
Beginning on July  15,  2018 
through January  15,  2028
From July  15,  2028
through January  15,  2041 
On July  15,  2041 

1.66

2.46
2.84

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal Payment  Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay 
the
Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as  of such date  in accordance  with paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount  of each  such withdrawal  by  a  fraction, the  numerator  of which is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the table  in paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to  which a Currency
Conversion applies.

- 10  -

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn  within  two calendar months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date commencing  with the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are issued  on or after  the respective  Principal  Payment Date, the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
to  any
withdrawals  made  after  the adoption of such billing system.

longer  apply 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion of all or  any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the  Screen Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance is  denominated  in more  than one  Loan Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply separately  to the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such amount.

4. 

5. 

- 11 -

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

"Busca Ativa Program" means the  Guarantor's  program  for the identification  and
inclusion  of poor  families  in the  CadUnico within  the Plano Brasil Sem Misria
the  Presidential  Decree  No.  7492,  dated
strategy,  established  pursuant 
June 2,  2011,  and published  in the Guarantor's  Diario Oficial on June  3,  2011,  as
amended  to the  date of this Agreement.

"CadUnico" means  the  Guarantor's  single  registry  for  social  programs  created
pursuant  to Presidential  Decree No.  6135,  dated  June 26,  2007,  and  published  on
the  Guarantor's  Didrio Oficial on June  27,  2007,  as  amended  to  the  date of this
Agreement.

"Dairy  Production  Clusters"  means  the  association  of dairy  producers  under  the
the  Borrower's  Decree
Intensive  Production  System,  created  pursuant 
No.  28733,  dated  August 27, 2012.

to 

"Dicirio Oficial"  means  the  Borrower's  and/or  Guarantor's  legal  publications
newspaper,  as  the case may be.

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any  expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the
Association has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or which  the  Bank  or the
Association has  financed  or agreed  to  finance  under  another  loan,  credit,
or grant;

for goods  included  in  the following groups  or  sub-groups of the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published
by  the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3
(1986)  (the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future
revisions  to  the  SITC,  as  designated  by  the  Bank  by  notice  to  the
Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

Sub-group 

Description  of Item

Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco, un-manufactured,  tobacco
refuse
Tobacco, manufactured  (whether or not
containing  tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and associated  materials

- 12  -

667 

718 

728 
897 

971 

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

Pearls,  precious and  semiprecious
stones, unworked  or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and parts thereof;  fuel
elements  (cartridges),  non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
Tobacco  processing  machinery
Jewelry of gold,  silver or platinum
group  metals  (except  watches  and
watch cases)  and  goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares  (including set
gems)
Gold, non-monetary (excluding  gold
ores and concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the  manufacture,  use  or  import  of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
agreements  to which the Borrower  is a party;

on  account  of  any  payment  prohibited  by  a  decision  of  the  United
Nations  Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the
United Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,
collusive  or coercive  practices  were  engaged  in by  representatives  of the
Borrower  or  other recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without the  Borrower
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action
satisfactory  to the  Bank to address  such practices  when  they occur.

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in Section  II  of this Appendix.

"Guichi  Unico" means  the  borrower's  citizen  service  attention  system  created
pursuant  to  the  Borrowers'  Decree  No.  28837,  dated  October  18,  2012,  and
published on October 22,  2012.

"i-Gesp"  means 
information  system  of
compulsory  use  for the  Borrower's  executive  branch,  pursuant  to the  Borrower's
Decree No. 28830,  dated  October  16,  2012, and published on October  18,  2012.

financial  management 

integrated 

"Intensive  Production  System"  means 
the  Borrower's  federal  government
technology transfer  and quality assurance  program to  strengthen  dairy production

- 13  -

pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  28733,  dated  August  27,  2012,  and
published  on October 30,  2012.

"PNAIC"  means  Programa Nacional de  Alfabetizaqdo  na  Idade  Certa,  the
Borrower's  federal  government  Literacy  at  the  Right  Age  Program,  pursuant  to
the  Borrower's  federal  education minister Portaria No. 867,  dated July  4, 2012.

"Program"  means  the  program  of  actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to
strengthen  the  Borrower's  public  sector  reforms,  budget  management  and
sectoral  policy  management  in  the  areas  of  social  inclusion  and  environmental
management  in  order  to  promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in
poverty  and set  forth or  referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  October  3, 2012,  from  the
Borrower  to  the  Bank, declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the execution  of
the  Program,  and requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank in  support  of the  Program
during  its execution.

"Rede  Cegonha" means  the  Borrower's  federal  government  maternal  and  child
health  program,  pursuant  to  the  borrower's  federal  health  minister  Portaria
No.  1459,  dated  June 24, 2011.

"SEED"  means  Secretaria  de  Estado  da  Educagdo,  the  Borrower's  State
Secretariat of Education.

"SEFAZ"  means  Secretaria da  Fazenda, the  Borrower's  State  Secretariat  of
Finance.

"SEPLAG"  means  Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento, Orqamento e  Gestdo,
the Borrower's  State Secretariat  of Planning, Budget and  Management.

"Sergipe Alfabetizado" means  the  literacy  program  in  which  in  accordance  with
the  Termo  de  Adesdo  dated  October  18,  2012,  the  Borrower  adheres  to  the
Guarantor's 
created 
pursuant 
the  Guarantor's
Resolution/CD/FNDE  No. 44, dated  September 5, 2012.

program 

literacy 

to 

"SES"  means Secretaria de Estado da Sadde, the Borrower's  State  Secretariat  of
Health.

"SEIDES"  means  Secretaria  de  Estado  da 
Inclusdo,  Assistincia  e
Desenvolvimento Social, the  Borrower's  State  Secretariat  of Inclusion, Protection
and  Social  Development.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the table  set forth  in  Part B  of
Section  II of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

- 14  -

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General Conditions

The modifications  to the General Conditions  are as follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The  last  sentence  of paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered
accordingly.

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally), and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining
Sections in  Article V are renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph (a) of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such pursuant to  paragraph  3 above
and  relating to  Use of Goods,  Works and Services) is deleted  in its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3
above)  is modified  to read as follows:

"Section  5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower shall  retain all records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
bills, receipts and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures  under the Loan  until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives  to  examine such records."

6. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  3
above)  is modified  to read as  follows:

Section 5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall prepare,  or  cause to  be prepared,  and  furnish
"... 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a  report  of such
scope and in  such detail  as the  Bank shall  reasonably  request, on the  execution  of
the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their
respective  obligations  under  the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of
the purposes  of the Loan."

7. 

The  following  terms  and  definitions  set  forth  in  the  Appendix  are  modified  or
deleted  as  follows,  and  the  following  new  terms  and  definitions  are  added  in
alphabetical  order  to  the  Appendix  as  follows,  with the  terms  being  renumbered
accordingly:

- 15  -

(a) 

The  definition  of the  term "Eligible  Expenditure"  is modified  to  read as
follows:

(b) 

(c) 

"'Eligible  Expenditure'  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded
pursuant to the  Loan Agreement."

The  term  "Financial  Statements"  and  its  definition  are  deleted  in  their
entirety.

The  term  "Project"  is  modified  to  read  "Program"  and  its  definition  is
modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to  "Project"  throughout
these General  Conditions are  deemed to be references  to  "Program"):

"'Program'  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in
support  of which the  Loan is made."

- 16  -

