The  World  Bank 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT 
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION 

1818 H Street  N.W. 
Washington,  D.C.  20433 
U.S.A. 

DOCUMENTS
-(0n04 4 X4*00
Cable Address: 
Cable Address: 

INTBAFRAD
INDEVAS

&?&At 

,-2013

His Excellency
Carlos  Enrique Cdceres  Chavez
Ministro  de Hacienda
Ministerio  de  Hacienda
Boulevar  de  los H6roes  No.  1231,  San  Salvador
Rep6blica  de  El  Salvador

Re:  Republic  of El Salvador:  Loan No.  7811-SV  (Income  Support and Employability

Project) - Third Amendment  to  the Loan  Agreement

Excellency:

Please  refer  to  the  Loan  Agreement  entered  into  between  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador  (the
"Borrower")  and the  International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development  (the  "Bank")  dated  July  19,
2010  as  amended  on  December  17,  2010,  and  March  2,  2012  (the  "Loan  Agreement").  In  this
Amendment  Letter,  all  the  terms  defined  in  the  Loan  Agreement  have  the  same  meaning  as  therein  set
forth.

We  are  pleased  to  inform  you  that  pursuant  to  your  letter  dated  April  30,  2013  requesting  to
modify  some  parts  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  reflect:  (i)  a  new description  of Project  components;  (ii)  the
reallocation  of funds;  and  (iii)  the  modification  of  implementation  arrangements  to  assign  to  MTPS  the
fiduciary  responsibilities  under  Part  B  of  the  Project,  the  Bank  hereby  proposes  to  amend  the  Loan
Agreement  as  follows:

1. 

Article  3.01  of the Loan  Agreement  is  hereby amended  to read  in  its entirety as  follows:

"3.01  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  under the  overall  coordination  of STP,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  carry  out:  (i)  through
MTPS,  Part  B  of the  Project;  and  (ii)  through  STP,  Part  C  of the  Project;  and  (b)  cause
FISDL, with the  assistance  of Eligible Municipalities,  to carry  out:  (i)  Parts  A.1,  A.3,  and
A.4  of  the  Project;  and  (ii)  Part  A.2  with  the  participation  of  INSAFORP,  all  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of Article V of the General  Conditions."

2. 

Part  B.3  of Schedule  I to the  Loan  Agreement  is hereby  deleted.

Section  I.A. 1.(a)  of Schedule  2  to the Loan  Agreement  is hereby  amended  to  read  in  its entirety  as

3. 
follows:

"1. 
(a)  For  purposes  of carrying  out  Part  A  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  enter
into  an  agreement  (the  Implementation  Agreement)  with  FISDL  under  terms  and
conditions  which  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank  which  shall  include,  inter alia,
those  set  forth  in  Schedule 4 to  this Agreement."

4. 

Part D  of Schedule  2 to the  Loan Agreement  is  hereby  amended  to read  as  follows:

-2-

"D. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  through  STP and  MTPS,  shall ensure,  and  cause FISDL to  ensure,  that  any
activities  under the  Project do  not involve  any  Resettlement,  the use  of pesticides  or other
agricultural  chemicals  listed  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual,  and/or  degrade  natural
habitats,  or cause deforestation."

Section  II.B  of Schedule  2  to  the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as

4. 
follows:

"B. 

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  through  STP  and  MTPS,  and  shall  cause  FISDL
1. 
and  INSAFORP  to  maintain,  a  financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09  of the  General  Conditions.

2. 
Without  limitation  on the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section, the Borrower  shall,
through  STP and  MTPS,  and  shall cause  FISDL to,  prepare  as  part of the  Project  Report,
interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project  covering  a  calendar  semester,  in form
and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  The  Borrower,  through  STP,  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  consolidated  interim  reports  (including  the  interim  financial  reports  prepared  by:
FISDL  for Part A,  MTPS  for  Part  B  and  STP  for  Part C  of the  Project,  respectively),  not
later than forty five  days  after the  end of each  semester.

The  Borrower, through  STP  and  MTPS,  shall,  and  shall cause  FISDL  to,  have  its
3. 
Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the
General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the  period  of one
fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall
be furnished  to the  Bank not later  than six months after the  end of such period.

The  table  in section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2  to  the Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended to  read  in its

5. 
entirety  as follows:

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in Dollars) 

Percentage  of Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

28,000,000 

100%

6,085,000 

100%

(1) 

(2) 

Cate2ory 

PATI Grants and 
Management  Expenses
under Part A.1  of the
Project

Goods,  Non-Consultant 
Services,  consultants'
services,  Operating
Costs, and Training
under Part A  of the
Project

-3-

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in Dollars) 

Percentage  of Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

6,575,000 

70% of the  Unit Costs  of the
Outputs  as set  forth  in  the Project
Operational  Manual

6,700,000 

100%

2,515,000 

100%

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

Category 

Outputs  under Part A.2 
of the Project 

Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services,  consultants'
services,  Operating
Costs, and  Training
under Part B  of the
Project

Goods,  Non-Consultant 
services,  consultants'
services,  Operating
Costs, and  Training
under  Part C  of the
Project

(6) 

Front-end  Fee 

125,000 

Amount payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this Agreement  in
accordance  with  Section  2.07  (b)  of
the  General  Conditions

(7) 

Unallocated 

Intentionally  left blank 

Intentionally  left blank

TOTAL AMOUNT 

50,000000

Section  A  of  Schedule  4  to  the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as

6. 
follows:

"A 

the obligation  of the Borrower:

(a) 

(b) 

through  MoF,  to  promptly  disburse  to  FISDL  proceeds  of the  Loan  to
finance  the  carrying  out  of Part  A  of the  Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency;

to  ensure  that the Project  is  carried  out in  accordance  with  the provisions
of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;  and

-4-

(c) 

not to  assign,  amend,  terminate,  abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or fail to  enforce
the  Implementation  Agreement  or  any  provision 
thereof  unless
previously  agreed  by the  Bank;"

Section  C.(a)  of Schedule  4  to  the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as

7. 
follows:

to  carry  out  Parts  A. 1, A.3,  and  A.4  of the  Project,  and  Part  A.2  of the  Project

"(a) 
with the  participation  of INSAFORP  (in  accordance  with the  INSAFORP  Agreement);"

Section  C.(e)  of  Schedule  4  to  the  Loan  Agreement  is  hereby  deleted  (as  a  result, the  remaining

8. 
sections  are  renumbered).

Section  C.(f)  of  Schedule  4  to  the  Loan  Agreement,  as  renumbered  per  section  8  of  this

9. 
Agreement,  is  hereby amended  to read  in  its entirety as  follows:

to  ensure  that  any  activity  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  does  not  involve  any
"(f) 
Resettlement,  the  use  of pesticides  or  other  agricultural  chemicals  listed  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual,  and/or degrade  natural  habitats, or cause  deforestation."

The  following  definitions  on  section  I  of  the  Appendix  to  the  Loan  Agreement  are  hereby

10. 
amended to  read  in their entirety  as follows:

"  "Implementation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A. I  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  part  of  the
proceeds  of the  Loan available to  FISDL  for the  implementation  of Part  A  of the  Project."

" "Procurement  Plan"  means  the  procurement  plan  prepared  by  FISDL  for  Part  A  of the
Project,  and  the  procurement  plan  prepared  by  STP  for  Part  C  of the  Project,  both  dated
October  18,  2009;  and  the  procurement  plan  prepared  by  MTPS  for  Part B  of the  Project,
dated  August  1, 2013,  all  referred  to  in paragraph  1.16  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.24  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to
time  in  accordance  with the  provisions of said paragraphs."

Please  indicate  your  agreement  with  the  foregoing  by  countersigning  and  dating  the  form  of
confirmation  on  the  two  original  copies  of this  letter  provided  to  you  and  returning  one  countersigned
original  to  us.  Thereafter,  all  the  provisions  of  the  Loan  Agreement,  except  as  amended  through  this
Amendment  Letter, shall remain  in  full  force and  effect.

The  provisions  set  forth  in  this  Amendment  Letter  shall  become  effective  as  of the  date  of the
countersignature  upon  compliance  by  the  Recipient  of the  following  conditions:  (i)  one  fully  executed
original  of this  Amendment  Letter has  been  delivered  to  the  Bank;  (ii)  evidence,  acceptable  to the  Bank,
that  an  amendment  to the  Implementation  Agreement  has been  entered  into by  the  parties thereto and  is  in
full effect and  a copy  of such  amendment  has been  delivered  to the  Bank

Please  also  note  that  the  restructuring  paper  dated  July  30,  2013  will  be  disclosed  on  the  Bank's

external  website.

-5-

Very  truly yours,

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

6"Felipe  Ja al

Directo
Central  America
Latin  America and the Caribbean  Region

AGREED  AND  CONFIRMED:

REPUBLIC  OF EL S  VADOR 

o 

4

Name:WOIOI-MCED

Title:

Date: 

28  do  agasstc  de  201

