OCU MENTS,

LOAN  NUMBER  8235-CN

Loan Agreement

(Beijing Rooftop  Solar Photovoltaic  Scale-up  (Sunshine  Schools)  Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

10 

, 2013

LOAN  NUMBER  8235-CN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT 

PEOPLE'S
between 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby  agree  as follows:

("Borrower") 

dated 

2013, 

and 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

in 
The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless 

the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

ARTICLE I  - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank agrees  to lend to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  and  twenty  million
Dollars  ($120,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  2.07
of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  1 to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 

in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

2.04. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

The  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread:
provided,  that upon  a Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  during  the Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05.  The  Payment Dates  are May  15 and  November  15  in each year.

-2-

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule  set forth in Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at any time  request  any of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  un-withdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa:  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion of the principal  amount  of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or  (C) all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii) the
setting  of limits on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate
Collar  on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end.  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entities  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and the Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall

ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its minister  responsible  for finance.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
China

Facsimile:

86-10-6855-1125

5.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People's  Republic  of  China,  as  of the  day  and  year  first  above
written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:  _ 

__ 

64 

Z

-5-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  increase  the  share  of  clean  energy  in
electricity  consumption  and  to  demonstrate  the  viability  of the  renewable  energy  service
company  model  for  scaling  up  the  deployment  of rooftop  solar  photovoltaic  systems  in
schools and  other  educational  institutions  in  Beijing Municipality.

The  Project  consists of the  following parts:

1. 

Support  to Sunshine  Schools  Program

Installation  of  distributed  rooftop  solar  photovoltaic  electricity  generation
systems 
in  Beijing
Municipality.

in  selected  schools  and  other  educational 

institutions 

2. 

Technical  Assistance

Development  of local  capacity  for  scaling  up of commercially  viable  solar  energy
deployment:

Demonstration  of the  renewable  energy  service  company  business  model
for  large-scale  grid-connected  rooftop  solar  photovoltaic  deployment  in
Beijing  Municipality,  provision  of engineering  and  technical  support  in
relation  to  photovoltaic  systems  to  Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy  Saving
Technology  Company  Limited,  and 
independent  monitoring  and
evaluation  of implementation  and  results of such model;

(b) 

demonstration  of two-way  metering  in Beijing Municipality;

establishment  of  an  online  monitoring  system  for  rooftop  photovoltaic
systems  and  a  solar-energy  information  portal  in  Beijing  Municipality;
and

improvement  of  renewable-energy  education 
educational  institutions in Beijing Municipality.

in  schools  and  other

(a) 

(c) 

(d) 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section 

.

Implementation Arrangements

On-lending

A. 

I. 

To  facilitate  the carrying  out of the Project,  the Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds
to  Beijing  Municipality,  and  shall  cause  Beijing
of  the  Loan  available 
Municipality  to  make  such  proceeds  available  to  Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy
Saving Technology  Company Limited,  both under  terms and  conditions  approved
by  the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the  following,  namely,  the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan made  available  shall  be:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

denominated  and  repayable  in  Dollars;

charged  a  front-end  fee  at  the  rate  set  forth  in  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement;

charged  interest  on  the  principal  amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from  time  to  time at  the  rate set  forth  in  Section  2.04  of this  Agreement;
and

(d) 

repayable  over  the  period  set forth  in Section  2.06  of this  Agreement.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights  under the  on-lending  arrangements  referred
to  in  the  preceding  paragraph  in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  its  interests  and
those  of the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan,  and,  except,as  the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or waive,  or permit to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated  or waived,  such
rights.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

C. 

Management  Manual and Implementation  and Operations Manual

The  Borrower shall:

(a) 

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  ensure  that  the  Project  is
carried  out  in accordance  with the provisions  of the Management  Manual
and  the  Implementation  and  Operations  Manual;  and

2. 

D. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

-7-

(b) 

except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or
waived, the  aforementioned,  or any provision  thereof.

In  the  event  of  a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of either  of the  Management
Manual  or  the  Implementation  and  Operations  Manual  and 
those  of  this
Agreement,  the  latter shall  govern.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  ensure  that  the
Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Environmental
Management  Plan,  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing, the
Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  assigned,
amended,  abrogated,  or waived, the aforementioned,  or any provision  thereof.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  ensure  that  no
land  acquisition  or  Involuntary  Resettlement  is carried  out under the  Project.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the
progress  of  their  Respective  Parts  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  for  such
Parts  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on
the  basis  of the  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Implementation  and  Operations  Manual.  Each
Project  Report  shall  cover the  period  of one  (1) calendar  semester,  and shall  be  furnished
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

in  accordance  with 

2. 

The  Borrower shall:

(a) 

(b) 

cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  ensure  that  the  Project  is
carried  out in accordance  with the  Financial  Management  Manual;  and

except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or
waived,  the aforementioned,  or any  provision thereof.

3. 

4. 

5. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

In  the  event  of a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of the  Financial  Management
Manual  and those  of this Agreement,  the  latter shall govern.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  II,  the  Borrower
shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Bank,
as  part  of the  Project  Report,  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of each
calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  their  Respective  Parts
of the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year of the Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank  not later than  six (6)  months after the  end of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines, and  with  the provisions  of this  Section.

in  this  Section  to  describe
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below 
particular  procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer  to the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  11  and  III  of the
Procurement Guidelines.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

in
International  Competitive  Bidding.  . Except  as  otherwise  provided 
paragraph  2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on the  basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.
Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used
for  those  contracts
for  procurement  of  goods  and  non-consulting  services 
specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to
(c)  Direct
the  additional  provisions  set  forth  below; 
Contracting.

(b)  Shopping;  and 

-9-

The  procedures  applicable  to  the  procurement  of  goods  and  non-consulting  services
under contracts  awarded  on the basis of National  Competitive  Bidding shall  be those  set
forth  in  the Borrower's  Law  on Tendering and  Bidding promulgated  by  its Order No.  21
dated  August  30,  1999,  with  the  modifications  set  forth  below  in  order  to  ensure
transparency,  and  broad  consistency  with  the  provisions  of
economy,  efficiency, 
Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3.3  of said  Guidelines.
In the  event  of a  conflict  between  the  Borrower's  procedures  and  the  modifications  set
forth below, the  latter  shall govern.

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a  newspaper  of
national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  country,  except  for  goods  contracts  that
are  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which  may  be
advertised  in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such  advertisement  shall  be  made
in  sufficient  time  for  prospective  bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding
documents  and  prepare  and  submit their  responses.  In any  event,  a minimum  of
thirty  (30)  days  shall  be  given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of advertisement  in
such  newspaper  and  the  deadline  for  submission  of bids,  and  the  advertisement
and  bidding documents  shall  specify the deadline  for such  submission.

Qualification 
qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be  specified 
documents.

requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of  evaluating 

in  detail 

the
in  the  bidding

All  bidders  that  meet  the  qualification  criteria  set  out  in  the  pre-qualification
documents  shall  be  allowed  to bid,  and there  shall  be no  limit on the  number of
pre-qualified  bidders.

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount  sufficient  to
protect  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entities,  as  the  case  may  be,
in case  of breach  of contract  by  the  contractor,  and  the bidding  documents  shall
specify the  required  form  and  amount  of such security.

Bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  submit  bids  by  mail  or  by  hand.  The  time  for
opening  of all  bids  shall  be the  same  as the deadline  for receipt of such  bids.

All  bids  shall  be opened  in  public;  all bidders  shall  be offered  an opportunity  to
be  present  (either  in  person  or  through their  representatives)  at  the  time  of bid
opening,  but bidders  shall  not be required to be present  at the  bid  opening.

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding  documents  and
/  fail
quantified 
requirements.

terms  or  expressed 

the  form  of  pass 

in  monetary 

in 

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid 

rice  falls  outside  any

- 10  -

standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or  bracket  of average  bids  established  by
the Borrower  or the Project  Implementing  Entities,  as  the  case may  be.

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder, that
is,  the  bidder  who  meets  the  appropriate  standards  of capability  and  resources
and  whose  bid  has  been  determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the
bidding  documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The  winning
bidder  shall  not  be  required,  as  a  condition  of  award, 
to  undertake
responsibilities  for work not  stipulated  in the  bidding  documents or otherwise  to
modify  the bid  as originally  submitted.

Each  contract  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Grant  shall  provide  that  the
suppliers  and  contractors  shall  permit  the  Bank,  at  its  request,  to  inspect  their
accounts and  records  relating to  the performance  of the  contract  and  to have  said
accounts  and  records  audited  by auditors appointed  by the  Bank.

Government-owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower's  country  may  be  permitted  to
bid  or  submit a  proposal  of goods and  works  if they  can  establish  that  they:  (i)
are  legally  and  financially  autonomous;  (ii)  operate  under  commercial  law;  and
(iii)  are  not  a  dependent agency  of the agency conducting  the procurement.

(xii) 

Re-bidding  should  not be  allowed  solely  because  the number  of bids  is  less than
three  (3),  and  rejection  of all  bids  or  rebidding  shall  not  take  place  without  the
Bank's  prior written  agreement.

(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be  published  in  the
national  or  provincial  press  (as  provided  under  subparagraph  (i)  above)  or
official  gazette  or  a  free  and  open-access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name
and  offered  price  of the  winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and  summary
scope of the  awarded contract.

(xiv) 

The  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entities,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall
have  in  place  provisions  for bidders  to  protest.

C. 

Review  by the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall be subject  to  Post Review  by  the  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including 
the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated
May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to
this  Agreement  pursuant to such  instructions), to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as
set forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

2. 

The following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each Category.

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

110,260,000 

100%

Category 

(1) Goods  and non- 
consulting  services  for
Part  I of the  Project

(2) Front-end  Fee 

300,000 

Amount payable  pursuant  to
Section  2.03  of this Agreement
in  accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the General
Conditions

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section  2.04  of this  Agreement
in accordance  with
Section  2.07  (c)  of the General
Conditions during the
Construction  Period

(3) Interest  During 
Construction 

9,440,000 

(4)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar 
Premium 

0 

Amount  due  pursuant  to
Section  2.07  (c)  of this
Agreement

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

120,000,000

- 12  -

B. 

I. 

2. 

C. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $24,000,000  equivalent
may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior to  this  date  but  on  or after  June  30,  2012
for  Eligible  Expenditures,  subject  to  fulfillment  of the  requirements  set  forth  in
Section  I.G of the  Schedule  to the  Project Agreement.

The Closing  Date  is  December  31,  2019.

Other Withdrawal Undertakings

Withdrawals  for goods under  Category (1) of the table  set forth in  Part A.2  of this
Section  IV  shall  be  made  upon  verification  by  Beijing Yuanshen  Energy  Saving
Technology  Company  Limited  of  the  generation  capacity  installed  under  the
respective  activity.  Amounts  so withdrawn  shall be  based  on  the  amount of such
capacity  and  calculated  in  accordance  with  the  formula  set forth  for  this  purpose
in the Financial  Management  Manual.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

May  15,  2018 
November  15,  2018 
May  15,  2019 
November  15,  2019 
May  15,  2020 
November  15,  2020 
May  15,  2021 
November  15,  2021 
May  15,  2022 
November  15,  2022 
May  15,  2023 
November  15,  2023 
May  15,  2024 
November  15,  2024 
May  15,  2025 
November  15,  2025 
May  15, 2026 
November  15,  2026 
May  15,  2027 
November  15,  2027 
May  15,  2028 
November  15,  2028 
May  15,  2029 
November  15,  2029 
May  15,  2030 
November  15,  2030 

1.48
1.52
1.56
1.59
1.63
1.67
1.72
1.76
1.80
1.85
1.89
1.94
1.99
2.04
2.09
2.14
2.20
2.25
2.31
2.37
2.43
2.49
2.55
2.61
2.68
2.74

- 14 -

May152031 
November  15,  2031 
May  15,2032 
November  15,  2032 
May  15,  2033 
November  15, 2033 
May  15,  2034 
November  15,  2034 
May  15,  2035 
November  15,  2035 
May  15,  2036 
November  15,  2036 
May  15,  2037 
November  15,  2037 

2.81
2.88
2.95
3.03
3.10
3.18
3.26
3.34
3.43
3.51
3.60
.3.69
3.78
4.14

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have not  been  fully withdrawn  as  of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months  prior  to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating
the  principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date  of withdrawal.

- 15-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on  or after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
to  any
withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such billing system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more than  one Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall apply  separately  to  the  amount denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such amount.

- 16 -

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants"  dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing 

"Beijing  Municipality"  means the  Borrower's  administrative  subdivision  of such
name  in the northeast of its territory,  or a  successor  thereto.

"Beijing  Municipal  Development  and  Reform  Commission"  means  Beijing
Municipality's  commission  responsible  for  the  management  of development  and
reform,  or a successor  thereto.

"Beijing  Energy  Investment  Holding  Company  Limited"  means  the  enterprise
wholly-owned  by  the  Borrower  and  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's  Company  Law  of  1996  and  said  enterprise's  Business  Registration
No.  110000007832879  and  its  charter  dated  December  8,  2004,  or  a  successor
thereto.

5. 

"Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy  Saving  Technology  Company  Limited"  means  the
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Beijing  Energy  Investment  Holding  Company
Limited  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Company  Law  of
1996  and  said  subsidiary's  Business  Registration  No.  110108005069314  and  its
charter dated April  5,  1996,  or a successor thereto.

"Beneficiary"  means  a  school  or  other  educational 
in  Beijing
Municipality  meeting  specific  criteria  set  forth 
in  the  Implementation  and
Operations  Manual  (as  hereinafter  defined)  and  which  is  a  beneficiary  under
Part  1 of the  Project  and  party  to  an  Energy  Service  Performance  Contract  (as
hereinafter  defined).

institution 

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth 
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Construction  Period"  means  the  period,  in  relation  to  works  under  the  Project,
commencing  on the  Effective  Date  and ending  on the Closing  Date.

"Energy  Service  Performance  Contract"  means  a  contract,  referred 
to  in
Part G.2  (b) of the  Schedule  to the  Project Agreement  and  based  on the  model  set

17-

1i. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

forth  in  the  Implementation  and  Operations  Manual,  between  Beijing  Yuanshen
Energy  Saving Technology  Company  Limited  and a  Beneficiary,  setting  forth  the
terms  and  conditions  governing  the  carrying  out  of  an  activity  for  such
Beneficiary  under  Part  I  of the  Project,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes,
appendices,  or schedules  to such  contract.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  (as
hereinafter  defined)'  plan,  dated  August  2012,  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  setting
forth  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including
capacity  building  through  training,  to  eliminate  any  adverse  environmental  and
social  impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented  under  the  Project,  offset  them,  or
reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  enhance  positive  impacts,  and  guidelines  and
procedures  for the  screening of activities  under  Part  I of the  Project,  as  the  same
may  be  modified from  time to  time with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank,
and  such  term  includes  any annexes,  appendices,  or schedules  to  such  plan.

"Financial  Management  Manual"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entities'
manual,  dated  December  2012,  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  setting  forth  financial
management 
for  purposes  of  Project
implementation,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes,  appendices,
or  schedules  to such  manual.

and  disbursement 

arrangements 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans"  dated  March  12,  2012.

"Implementation  and  Operations  Manual"  means  Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy
Saving  Technology  Company  Limited's  manual,  dated  October  2012,  agreed
with  the  Bank  and  setting  forth  implementation,  organizational,  administrative,
and  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements  for  purposes  of implementation  of
Part  I of the  Project,  including criteria,  procedures,  and terms  for  activities  under
Part  I  of the  Project  and  a  model  Energy  Service  Performance  Contract,  as  the
same  may  be  modified  from  time to time with  the  prior written  agreement  of the
Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes,  appendices,  or  schedules  to  such
manual.

"Involuntary  Resettlement"  means  the  following  caused  on  account  of  Project
implementation:  (a)  the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in  (i)  relocation  or
loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss of assets  or access  to assets;  or (iii)  loss of income  sources
or  means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not the  affected  person  must  move  to  another
location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally  designated  parks
and  protected  areas  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood  of the  affected
person.

-18-

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"Interest  During  Construction"  means  the  interest  and  other  charges  accrued
during the  Construction  Period  and  payable  on the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
in  accordance  with
terms  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement  and 
Section  2.04 of this  Agreement.

dated
"Management  Manual"  means  Beijing  Municipality's  manual, 
implementation,
October 2012,  agreed  with 
organizational,  administrative,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements  for
purposes  of Project  implementation,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to
time  with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any
annexes,  appendices,  or schedules  to  such manual.

the  Bank  and  setting 

forth 

"Megawatt"  means  one  million  (1,000,000)  watts,  a  standard  unit  of measure  of
electric  power.
"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.
"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  January  18,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the same  shall  be
updated  from  time to time  in  accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.
"Project  Implementing Entity"  means,  individually:  (a)  Beijing Municipality;  and
(b)  Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy  Saving  Technology  Company  Limited;  and
"Project  Implementing  Entities" means  both  of said entities.

Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means,  for  Beijing  Yuanshen
"Project 
Energy  Saving Technology  Company  Limited,  the  Borrower's  Company  Law of
1996  and  said  enterprise's  Business  Registration  No.  110108005069314  and  its
charter  dated  April  5, 1996;  and  such  term  includes  any  other  legal  instruments
governing  the  organization,  reorganization,  restructuring,  and  operations  of the
Project Implementing  Entities  as of the date of this  Agreement.
"Project  Leading  Group"  means  Beijing  Municipality's  group  referred  to  in
Section  I.B.2  of the Schedule to  the Project  Agreement,  or a successor thereto.
"Project  Management  Office"  means  Beijing  Municipality's  office,  under  the
Project  Leading  Group, referred to  in  Section  I.B.3  of the Schedule  to the  Project
Agreement,  or  a successor thereto.

for  Beijing
"Respective  Part  of  the  Project"  means 
Municipality,  Part  2  of the  Project;  and (b)  for  Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy  Saving
Technology  Company Limited,  Part I of the  Project.

the  following: 

(a) 

- 19-

26. 

27. 

"Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1
of the  Schedule  to the  Project  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  Beijing  Municipality
shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  Beijing  Yuanshen  Energy
Saving  Technology  Company  Limited,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes,
appendices,  or schedules  to  such agreement.

"Sunshine  Schools  Program"  means  Beijing  Municipality's  program  designed  to
support  the  installation  of  (primarily  rooftop)  solar  photovoltaic  electricity
generation  systems  in  schools  and  other  educational  institutions,  and  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Beijing  Municipality's  Official  Documents  No.  1269  (2011)  dated
July  25,  2011  and  No. 289  (2012) dated  March  9,  2012.

Section  H. 

Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The  modification 

to  the  General  Conditions 

Section 2.05  (a) is  modified  to read  as follows  (emphasis added):

is  as  follows,  namely, 

that

"(a) 

the  payment  is  for  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  non-consulting
services  required  for  the  Project,  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  and
procured,  all  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of the  Legal Agreements;"

