OFFMIAL
IDOCUMENTS.

LOAN  NUMBER  8268-CN

(Guangdong  Social  Security Integration  and Rural Worker Training Project)

Loan Agreement

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

)/ 

a 

,2013

LOAN  NUMBER  8268-CN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

)"/, 

-

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").

and 

INTERNATIONAL 

, 2013,  between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA
AND

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

BANK 

The  Borrower  and the  Bank hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context requires otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower, on  the terms  and conditions  set  forth  or referred
to in  this Agreement,  the  amount of eighty million  Dollars  ($80,000,000),  as  such  amount
may  be  converted  from  time  to time  through  a Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the
project  described  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the Reference  Rate for the Loan  Currency  plus  the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02
(e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The  Payment  Dates  are April  15  and  October  15  in each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3  to this  Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based on  a  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by the  establishment  of
an Interest Rate  Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the  Variable  Rate  or the Reference
Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar for  which  the Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall, on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05 (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower shall  cause  the Project  to be carried  out by the Project  Implementing  Entity  and
the  Project  Schools  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General
Conditions  and  the  Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  is carried out in accordance  with the provisions.of  Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the  date ninety  (90)  days after the date  of this  Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's representative  is its Minister of Finance.

5.02.  The  Borrower's  Address is:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's Republic  of China

Facsimile:
(86-10)  6855-1125

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at Beijing,  People's  Republic of China as  of the  day  and year  first above written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

<

Title: 

i

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

/--7

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title: 

1 

'

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The  objectives  of  this  Project  are  to  enhance  portability  of  social  security  data  and
beneficiary  entitlements,  and  to  strengthen  the  skills  base  and  employment  prospects  of  rural
hukou workers  in Guangdong.

The  Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part 1 

Social  Security  Management  Information System

Part 1.1  Designing  and developing  the provincial  MIS

Design  and  development  of  a  provincial  MIS  for  social  insurance,  and  employment  services
programs,  including:

development  of  data  standards 
components  of the  New  System and across the  Prefectures;

facilitate 

to 

inter-operability  among 

the

design  and  integration  of the  MIS,  including  design  of the  enterprise and  system
architecture,  support  platform  and data exchange scheme;  and

acquisition  and  development  of  software 
clearinghouse  to enable  data exchange  across programs  and Prefectures.

for  the  provincial  entitlements

Part 1.2  Building  the provincial  MIS delivery  platform

Acquisition  of  hardware  for  the  New  System,  including  servers,  computers,
scanners,  storage  and  network  equipment, and  leasing of networks;  and

acquisition  and/or  development  of  selected  software  for  the  New  System,
including data analysis  tools.

Part 1.3  Capacity  Strengthening for MIS modernization  and Project management

Strengthening  the capacity  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity and  the  Prefectures  to  manage the
New System  through:

provision  of technical  assistance  and  training,  including  facilitation  of  study
tours,  to enhance management  capacity  and  innovation;  and

monitoring  of Project  results,  including  carrying  out of an  impact evaluation.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

-5-

Part 2 

Rural Worker Training

Part 2.1:  Strengthening School-Industry  Linkages

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Project  Schools  to  institutionalize  linkages  with  industry
through:

carrying out  of surveys  to identify  employer  demand  for skills;

formulation  of guidelines for school-industry  partnerships;  and

development  and/or revision,  and dissemination,  of skills standards  and  curricula,
and training programs.

Part 2.2:  Strengthening Instructional and  Institutional Management  Capacity

Enhancing  the capacity  of Project  School management,  administrators  and  instructors through:

(a) 

carrying  out  of  training  needs  analyses  and  provision  of  training,  including
facilitation of study tours;  and

(b) 

evaluating training  results, to  inform  further  development  of training  programs.

Part 2.3:  Developing  Modular, Competency-Based  Training Programs

Development  by  Project  Schools  of  modular  and  competency-based  training
models  and  teaching  materials  in  selected  programs;

establishment  of  a  database  of  training  programs  for  rural  workers  including
teaching and  learning  materials and  employer  information;  and

monitoring  and  evaluation  of  training  programs, 
evaluation  standards.

including  development  of

Part 2.4:  Upgrading of Facilities  and Equipment and School  Information  Services

(a) 

Development  of  school  information  systems,  including  acquisition  of computer
hardware  and  software;

(b) 

construction  and/or rehabilitation  of school  buildings  and facilities;  and

(c) 

acquisition  of training  equipment  and  supplies,  including  books,  computers  and
peripherals,  learning  materials,  and  software.

Part 2.5 Improving  Project Monitoring  and Evaluation  and Project management

(a) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of the  Project  Schools  to  monitor  and  evaluate  their
training  programs,  through  establishment  of  monitoring  and  evaluation  teams,
and conducting  of evaluations  and  tracer studies;

-6-

(b) 

(c) 

strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  manage  the
Project through  provision  of technical  assistance  and training;  and

carrying  out  of  policy  studies  to  guide  the  design  and  implementation  of  skills
enhancement programs  for rural workers.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Financing Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1I 

For  the  purposes  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  available  the  proceeds  of the.
Loan  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to
make  part  of  the  said  proceeds  available  to  the  Project  Schools,  under  terms  and
conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank,  including the following principal  terms:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The principal  amount  shall be made  available  in Dollars  or any  other Currency  as
the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion
(such  principal  amount determined  on the date,  or respective  dates, of withdrawal
from the  Loan Account) of the  value  of the currency  or currencies  so withdrawn.

The  principal  amount  so  made  available  (including  an  amount  equal  to  the  fee
paid  pursuant to  Section  2.03  of this Agreement)  shall  be  recovered  over  a period
of 25 years,  inclusive  of a grace  period  of 5 years.

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of interest  applicable  from  time  to
time  to the  Loan pursuant to Section  2.04  of this Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (a)  manage,  operate,
monitor,  transfer  and  reconcile  the proceeds  of the  Loan  made  available  to  it  pursuant  to
paragraph  I  above  in  accordance  with  arrangements  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  (b) take  all  required actions,  including  provision  of timely  consents  and  approvals
as  may  be  necessary,  to  facilitate  the  utilization  of  said  Loan  proceeds  and  the
implementation  of the  Project  and  to  enable  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  comply
with  its  undertakings  under the  Project  Agreement;  and  (c)  maintain  all  relevant  records
and documents  related  to the  Loan  and the  Project and  provide  promptly  such  documents
and records,  including all  other information,  as  may  be  requested  by the  Borrower  or the
Bank  from time to time.

Implementation  Arrangements  and Work Plans

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  its  Respective
Parts  of the  Project,  and  cause  the  Project Schools  to  carry  out their  Respective  Parts of
the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Implementation  Plan,  as  annually  reviewed
and  approved by the  Bank, as  provided  for in  the  Section  I, Part  E  of the  Schedule  to the
Project  Agreement,  in  a manner  satisfactory to  the Bank  and  shall not  amend,  suspend,  or
waive  the said plan  or any part thereof without the prior written  agreement  of the Bank.

2. 

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  Project  Implementation  Plan  and  this
Agreement,  the provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

-8-

D. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

C. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure  that  the  Project  is
carried  out  in  accordance  with the  provisions of the  Environmental  Codes of Practice  and
the  Due  Diligence  Report,  and,  except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the
Borrower  shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or waive,  or permit to  be  assigned, amended,
abrogated,  or waived, the aforementioned,  or any provision thereof.

In  the  event  of any  inconsistency  between  the  Environmental  Codes  of Practice  and  the
Due  Diligence  Report,  and  this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  shall
prevail.

Without limitation  upon its other reporting obligations  under  Section  II,  of this  Schedule,
the Borrower  shall  take,  and  cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity to  take,  all  measures
necessary  to  regularly collect  and compile,  and submit  to the  Bank, as  part of the  Project
Reports,  information  on  the  status  of compliance  with  the  Environmental  Codes  of
Practice  and the  Due Diligence  Report,  providing details of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

measures  taken  in  furtherance  of said  Codes;

conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to  interfere  with  the  smooth
implementation  of said  Codes; and

remedial  measures taken or  required to be taken  to address  such conditions.

Section  I. 

Project Monitoring.  Reporting, Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports.

The  Borrower shall:  (a) monitor  and evaluate,  and cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
to  monitor  and  evaluate,  the  progress  of  the  Project  and  to  prepare  Project  Reports  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.08  (b)  of the  General  Conditions  and on  the
basis  of the  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the  Project  Implementation
Plan.  Each  such  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period  of one  (1)  calendar  semester,  and
shall  be furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later than  March  15  and  September  15  each  year;  and
(b)  without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  the  preceding  sub-paragraph,  cause  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  to,  by  no  later  than  January  31,  2016  carry  out  a mid-term
review of the  Project,  under terms  of reference  acceptable  to the Bank.

-9-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3 

2. 

3. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and  Audits.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  or  shall cause  the Project  Implementing  Entity  to  maintain,
a  financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank  as  part  of the  Project
Report not  later than  March  15  and  September  15  each  year,  interim  un-audited  financial
reports  for the  Project  covering  the  preceding  calendar  semester,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to the Bank,

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  its  Financial
Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General
Conditions.  Each  audit of the  Financial  Statements  shall cover  the  period  of one  (1)  fiscal
year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished  to the  Bank  not  later than  six (6)  months after the  end  of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the  Project  and to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with the requirements  set  forth or referred  to in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth  or referred to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the Consultant  Guidelines  and
with  the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the corresponding  method described  in  Sections  II and  III  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
or Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as  the case  may  be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided 
in  paragraph  2
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods, works  and  non-consulting  services  for those contracts  specified  in

-10-

the  Procurement Plan:  (a) Shopping;  (b)  Direct  Contracting;  and  (c)  National  Competitive
Bidding,  subject  to  the  additional  provisions  set  forth  in  the  Law  on  Tendering  and
Bidding  of the  People's  Republic of China promulgated  by  Order  No.  21  of the  President
of the  People's  Republic  of China  on  August 30,  1999,  with  the  following  clarifications
required  for compliance  with  the Procurement Guidelines:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a  newspaper  of
national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  except  for  civil  works  contracts
that  are  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods
contracts  that  are  estimated  to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  which
may  be  advertised  in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such  advertisement  shall  be
made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective  bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or
bidding  documents  and  prepare  and  submit  their  responses.  In  any  event,  a
minimum  of  thirty  (30)  days  shall  be  given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of
advertisement  in such newspaper  and the deadline  for submission  of bids, and  the
advertisement  and  bidding  documents  shall  specify  the  deadline  for  such
submission.

the
Qualification 
qualification  of each  bidder shall  be  specified  in  detail  in  the bidding documents.

requirements  of  bidders  and 

the  method  of  evaluating 

All  bidders  that  meet  the  qualification  criteria  set  out  in  the  pre-qualification
document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there  shall  be  no  limit  on  the  number  of
pre-qualified  bidders.

All  bidders  shall  be required  to provide security  in  an  amount sufficient  to protect
the  Borrower  or the  Project Implementing  Entity,  as  the case  may  be,  in  case  of
breach  of contract  by  the contractor,  and the  bidding documents  shall specify the
required  form  and  amount of such  security.

Bidders  will be  allowed  to submit  bids  by  mail  or by  hand. The time  for  opening
of all  bids shall  be  the same  as the deadline  for  receipt of such  bids.

All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be  offered  an  opportunity  to
be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their  representatives)  at  the  time  of bid
opening,  but bidders  shall  not  be required  to be  present at  the bid  opening.

(vii) 

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed 
quantified  in  monetary terms or expressed  in  the form  of pass/fail  requirements.

in  the  bidding  documents  and

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price  falls  outside  any
standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or  bracket  of average  bids  established  by
the Borrower or the Project Implementing  Entity, as the  case may  be.

(ix) 

Each  contract  shall  be awarded  to the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder, that  is,
the  bidder  who. meets  the  appropriate  standards  of capability  and  resources  and
whose  bid  has  been determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The  winning  bidder  shall

-11-

not  be  required,  as  a  condition  of award,  to  undertake  responsibilities  for  work
not  stipulated  in  the  bidding  documents  or  otherwise  to  modify  the  bid  as
originally  submitted.
Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  provide  that  the
suppliers  and  contractors  shall  permit  the  Bank,  at  its  request,  to  inspect  their
accounts  and  records  relating  to the  performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said
accounts  and records  audited  by  auditors  appointed  by the  Bank.

Government  owned  enterprises  in  the  Borrower's  country  may  be  permitted  to
bid  or submit  a  proposal  of goods  and  works  if they  can  establish  that  they:  (A)
are  legally  and  financially  autonomous;  (B)  operate  under  commercial  law;  and
(C)  are not  a dependent  agency  of the agency conducting  the procurement.

(x) 

(xi) 

(xii) 

All  bids  should  not  be  rejected  solely  because  the  number  of bids  is  less  than
three  (3).  and  rejection  of all  bids  or  rebidding  shall  not  take  place  without  the
Bank's prior written  concurrence.

(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be  published  in  the
national  press  or provincial  press  (as  provided  under  sub-paragraph  (i) above)  or
official  gazette or  a free  and  open  access  website  and  shall  identify the  name  and
offered  price  of the winning  bidder, as  well  as  the  duration  and  summary  scope
of the  awarded  contract.

(xiv) 

The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  have  in  place  provisions  for  bidders  to
protest.

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2 below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of Quality-
and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  methods,
other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of
consultants'  services  for those contracts  which are  specified  in the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)
Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  Based  on  the  Consultants'  Qualifications;  (c)
Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the
Selection  of Individual  Consultants; and (d)  Single-source  procedures  for the Selection  of
firm  and  Individual Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall set  forth those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject to  the  Bank's
Prior  Review. All  other contracts  shall  be subject to  Post Review  by  the Bank.

-12-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006, as  revised  from  time  to time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance Eligible  Expenditures  as set forth  in the table in  paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of the  Loan  to
each  Category,  and 
to  be  financed  for  Eligible
Expenditures  in  each  Category.

the  percentage  of  expenditures 

Category 

(1)  Goods, 
non-consulting 
services,  consultants' 
services,
Network 
Leasing,  Operating
Costs,  and  Training  and  Study
Tours  under Part  I  of the Project
(2)  Works, 
non- 
consulting  services,  consultants'
services  Operating  Costs,  and
Training  and  Study  Tours  under
Part 2  of the Project
(3) 
Front-end  Fee 

goods, 

4)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest 
Rate  Collar premium 

T 

MOUNT 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 
44,887,500 

Percentage  of  Expenditures
to be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
100%

34,912,500 

100%

200,000 

0 

80,000,000

of 

Amount  payable  pursuant 
to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement  in  accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the General
Conditions
Amount  due 
Section 
Agreement".

pursuant 

to
this

2.07(c) 

of 

-13-

B. 

I 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, no withdrawal  shall  be made  for
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount  not to exceed  $16,000,000  equivalent  may  be made  for payments  made
prior  to this date  but on or after  December  1, 2012  for Eligible Expenditures.

2. 

The Closing  Date is  December  31,  2018.

-14-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the Loan  payable  on each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds of the Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
the  Bank  by
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by 
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any  amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,
to  which  a  Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal  Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

October  15,  2018 
April  15,2019 
October  15,  2019 
April  15,  2020 
October  15,  2020 
April  15,  2021 
October  15,  2021 
April  15. 2022 
October  15,  2022 
April  15,  2023 
October  15,  2023 
April  15,  2024 
October  15,  2024 
April  15,  2025 
October  15,  2025 
April  15,  2026 
October  15,  2026 
April  15,  2027 
October  15,  2027 
April  15,  2028 
October  15,  2028 
April  15,  2029 
October  15,  2029 
April  15,  2030 
October  15,  2030 
April  15,  2031 
October  15,  2031 
April  15,  2032 
October  15,  2032 

-15-

1.48
1.52
1.56
1.59
1.63
1.67
1.72
1.76
1.80
1.85
1.89
1.94
1.99
2.04
2.09
2.14
2.20
2.25
2.31
2.37
2.43
2.49
2.55
2.61
2.68
2.74
2.81
2.88
2.95

April  15,  2033 
October  15,  2033 
April  15,  2034 
October  15,  2034 
April  15,  2035 
October  15,  2035 
April  15,  2036 
October  15,  2036 
April  15,  2037 
October  15,  2037 
April 15,  2038 

3.03
3.10
3.18
326
3.34
13
3.51
3.60
3.69
3.78

_4.14

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
ate,theprincipal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

Paymnt 

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of such  date  in  accordance  with paragraph  1 of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment Date falling  after the date  of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is  the original  Installment  Share  specified  in -the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
the  date  of
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following 
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such  billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2 of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency.  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any

-16-

Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the exchange  rate that reflects  the amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency,  so  as to produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

-17-

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by  1BRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"
dated January  2011.

"DHRSS"  means 
Guangdong,  or any  successor thereto.

the  Department  for  Human  Resources  and  Social  Security  of

"Due  Diligence  Report"  means  the  Borrower's  report  dated  October  2012,  and  updated
on  May  20,  2013,  detailing:  (a)  an  overall  review  of the  land  acquisition  and  resettlement
undertaken  in  connection  with  the  Project,  (b)  an  assessment  of compliance  of said  land
land
acquisition  and  resettlement  with 
acquisition,  resettlement, and  related  compensation,  including consistency  with  the World
Bank  involuntary  resettlement  policies;  (c)  monitoring  and  evaluation  measures  to  be
undertaken  in  relation  to the  impacts  and mitigation  of land  acquisition  and  resettlement
(including  economic  displacement)  in  connection  with the Project and  related  budget;  and
(d)  actions  to  be  undertaken  by  the  Borrower  in  relation  to  any  land  acquisition  and
resettlement  issues  or disputes.

laws  and  regulations  on 

the  Borrower's 

"Environmental  Codes  of  Practice"  means  the  codes  prepared  for  Yunfu  Technical
School  and  Guangdong  Advanced  Technical  School  of  Light  Industry,  respectively,
in  the  Borrower's  territory  on
found  acceptable  by  the  Bank  and  locally  disclosed 
November  26,  2012  and November  27, 2012,  respectively,  and  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on
November  23,  2012,  specifying  the actions,  measures  and  policies,  to  be  taken  or adopted
to maximize  the environmental  benefits  of their  Respective  Parts of the  Project,  as  well  as
eliminate,  offset  or  mitigate  any  adverse  environmental  impacts,  or  reduce  such  impacts
to  acceptable  levels,  along with  administrative  and monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure  the
implementation  of said  actions,  measures  and  policies,  and  including  the  reporting  and
supervision  arrangements.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development General  Conditions for  Loans", dated  March  12,  2012.

"International  Bank 

the 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"Guangdong"  means  the  Borrower's  Guangdong  Province,  or  any  successor  thereto,
which is  the  Project  Implementing  Entity for the Project.

3. 

4. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"MIS" means  management  information system.

-18-

10. 

1H. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

I5. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Network  Leasing"  means  the  reasonable  cost  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  of
leasing  telecommunications  networks  for  the  New  System  under  Part  1.2  (a)  of  the
Project.

"New  System"  means  the  provincial  computerized  social  security  MIS  to  be  designed,
developed  and  built under the Part  1 of the Project.

"Operating  Costs"  means 
the  operating  costs  of  the  Project,  incurred  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  or  the  Project  Schools  for  purposes  of  Project  management  and
implementation,  on account  of office  supplies  and  consumables,  utilities,  bank  charges,
communications,  mass  media  and  printing  services, 
interpretation  and  translation
services,  patents  costs,  publishing  costs,  vehicle  rental,  operation,  maintenance,  and
insurance,  equipment  maintenance,  local  transportation,  domestic  travel,  lodging,  and
subsistence  allowances,  Overtime  Allowances,  salaries  of  contractual  and  temporary
staff,  honoraria  for  industry  and  sector  experts,  and  other  expenditures  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  but  excluding  salaries and  salary  supplements  of members  of the  Borrower's or  the
Project  Implementing  Entity's civil  service.

"Overtime  allowances"  means  allowances  paid  to teachers  of the  Project  Schools  for time
spent over  and  above  their  regular working  hours  in  the development  of curricula  for the
purposes of Part 2.3  (a)  of the Project

"Prefectures"  means,  collectively,  the  twenty  one  administrative  sub  divisions  of
Guangdong,  and any  successors  thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  procurement  plans  for the
Project,  dated  March  25,  2013,  and April  12,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of
the Procurement  Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same
shall  be updated from time to  time in  accordance  with  the provisions of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Agreement"  means 
the  agreement  between 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity  of even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time;  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  the  Project
Agreement.

the  Bank  and 

"Project  Implementation  Leading  Group"  means  the  group  to  be  maintained  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity,  as  provided  for  in  Section  I,  Paragraph  A.1  (a)  of  the
Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  to  facilitate 
inter-agency  and 
inter-divisional
coordination,  and provide policy  guidance,  during Project  Implementation.

Implementation  Plan"  means 

"Project 
the 
implementation  plans  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  the  Project  Schools,  dated  February  4,  2013,  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  containing  the  principles,  procedures  and  arrangements  for  implementing  the
Project, 
financial  management,

including,  but  not 

those  related 

limited 

to, 

to 

-19-

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

procurement,  disbursement  of funds,  mitigation  of adverse  impacts  on  environment,  and
monitoring  and  evaluation  of Project  activities,  as  said  plan  shall  be  updated  annually
based  on the  annual  work  plans  and  budgets  to  be  prepared  by  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  and  the Project  Schools and approved  by  the Bank.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  Borrower's  Province  of  Guangdong,  or  any
successor  thereto.

"Project  Schools"'  means  collectively,  (a)  the  Guangdong  Advanced  Technical  School  of
Light  Industry;  (b)  the  Guangzhou  Industry  and Trade  Technician  College;  (c)  the Yunfu
Technical  School;  and  (d)  any  other  school  or  schools  selected  by agreement  among  the
in  Project
Borrower,  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Bank  to  participate 
activities.  "Project  School"  means,  individually, any one  of the Project  Schools.

"Respective  Part  of the  Project"  means,  in  the case  of each Project  School,  Parts 2.1,  2.2.
2.3,  2.4  and  2.5  (a)  of the  Project  with  respect  to  such  School  and,  in  the  case  of the
Project  Implementing  Entity, all  parts  of the  Project other  than the  Respective  Parts  of the
Project  of the Project  Schools.

"Training  and  Study  Tours"  means,  for  the  purposes  of the  table  in  Schedule  2,  Section
IV,  Paragraph  A.2  of this  Agreement,  and  based  on  an  annual  work  plan  and  budget
approved  in  advance  by  the  Bank  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  the  reasonable
cost of travel,  lodging and  per diem  for  trainees  attending  training,  workshops  and  study
tours  and  the  cost  of delivering  training  including  rental  of training  space  and  training
equipment,  fees, and other logistical  costs, all  as agreed  with the  Bank.

-20-

