OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8251-CN

Loan Agreement

(Ma'anshan Cihu River Basin Improvement Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

4 

,2013

LOAN  NUMBER  8251-CN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 
CHINA 

,  2013,  between  PEOPLE'S
FOR
REPUBLIC 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby
agree  as follows:

2ufi  4- 
and 7 

INTERNATIONAL 

("Borrower") 

BANK 

OF 

ARTICLE I-  GENERAL  CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)'  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires otherwise,  the  capitalized terms  used  in this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  I-  LOAN

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to the Borrower,  on the terms and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  million  Dollars  ($100,000,000),  as  such
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in
financing  the project described  in  Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

The Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the Borrower  shall  be  equal to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate  equal  to
the Reference  Rate for the Loan  Currency  plus the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that upon a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount of the  Loan, the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest  payable  by the  Borrower shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02
(e)  of the  General Conditions.

2.05.  The Payment  Dates are March  15  and September  15  in each year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule set forth  in  Schedule 3 to  this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i) a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all.or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the  establishment  of
an Interest  Rate Cap or Interest  Rate  Collar on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference
Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which the  Borrower has  requested  that the premium  be  paid  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the Project to  be  carried  out  by the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions  and  the  Project
Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project is  carried out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  any  party  to
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of its  respective  obligations
thereunder.

-2-

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  Ma'anshan  Municipality  and
MCRD.

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  has been duly  authorized  or ratified  by  Ma'anshan  Municipality  and  MCRD,
and  is  legally  binding  upon  Ma'anshan  Municipality  and  MCRD  in  accordance  with  its
terms.

5.03. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the  date ninety  (90)  days after the  date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is  its Minister  of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address is:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's  Republic  of China

Facsimile:
(86-10)  6855-1125

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at  Beijing,  People's Republic  of China, as  of the  day and  year first above written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF  CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR/
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

K(**

Title: 

6---t

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

I .

2. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

The objective  of the Project  is  to  improve drainage  and flood  protection  capacity  in  urban

areas  of Ma'anshan  Municipality.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

Part A. 

Cihu River Rehabilitation and Drainage Improvement

Carrying out of rehabilitation  works on the upper reach  of the Cihu River, including,  inter
alia, slope protection,  embankment  strengthening,  ecological  rehabilitation,  greening  and
rehabilitation  of existing service  roads.

Carrying out  of rehabilitation  works on the  lower reach  of the Cihu  River, including,  inter
and
alia,  dredging, 
rehabilitation  of  flood  control  structures,  rehabilitation  of  existing  service  roads.
ecological  rehabilitation,  and  greening.

slope  protection,  embankment 

strengthening, 

construction 

Rehabilitation  of storm  water pumping stations  in the  Ma'anshan  Municipality  area.

Part B. 

Rehabilitation of Tributaries and Drainage Canals

Rehabilitation  of tributary and  drainage  canals  in  urban  areas  of Huashan District.

Rehabilitation  of tributary  and  drainage  canals  in  the  Hitech  Zone  area,  focusing  on  the
Jiandan River  and Lijianwan  River.

Upgrading  of ponds  for use  as storm  retention  basins.

Part C. 

Environmental Management and Monitoring

Design  and  implementation  of a watershed  scale water quality  monitoring  program.

Development  and  publication  of an  environmental  protection  reference  document  setting
forth,  inter alia, prevention  and  mitigation  measures  for  future  contamination  of  water
from  mining activities  and  ecological  restoration of mined  lands.

Part D. 

Capacity Building and Project Implementation  Support

to  coordinate  and
Supporting  the  overall  development  of  Ma'anshan  Municipality 
manage the  implementation  of the Project,  including the  establishment  and  operation  of a
monitoring  and  evaluation  system,  safeguards  monitoring  and  the  establishment  of a
Project  management  office  (including,  inter  alia, design  reviews,  the  acquisition  of
equipment  and  the carrying out of training  activities).

-5-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Financing and Implementation  Arrangements

Financing Arrangements

A. 

1 

2. 

For the  purposes  of carrying  out of the  Project,  the  Borrower shall  make  available  to  the
Project  Implementing  Entity the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the
Categories  set forth  in the table  in Section  IV  of this  Schedule,  on the  following principal
terms:

(i) 

(ii) 

The  principal  amount shall  be made  available  in  Dollars  or any other  Currency as
the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion
(such  principal  amount  determined  on the  date, or respective  dates,  of withdrawal
from  the Loan Account)  of the value  of the  currency  or currencies  so withdrawn.

The  principal  amount  so  made  available  (including  an  amount  equal  to  the  fee
paid  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of this  Agreement  and  any  premium  for  Interest
Rate  Caps  or  Interest  Rate  Collars  paid  pursuant  to  Section  2.07(c)  of  this
Agreement  and  Section  4.05(c)  of  the  General  Conditions)  shall  be  recovered
over  a period  of thirty (30)  years,  inclusive  of a  grace  period  of five  (5) years.

(iii) 

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding
from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of interest  applicable  from  time  to
time to  the Loan  pursuant  to the  provisions  of Section  2.04 of this Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (a)  manage,  operate,
monitor,  transfer and  reconcile  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  made  available to  it  pursuant  to
paragraph  1 above  in  accordance  with  arrangements  and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  (b) take  all  required  actions,  including provision  of timely  consents  and  approvals
as  may  be  necessary,  to  facilitate  the  utilization  of  said  Loan  proceeds  and  the
implementation  of the  Project,  and  to  comply  with  its  undertakings  under  the  Project
Agreement;  and  (c)  maintain  all  relevant  records  and  documents  related to  the  Loan  and
the  Project  and  provide  promptly  such  documents  and  records,  including  all  other
information,  as  may be requested  by the  Borrower or the  Bank from time to  time.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

C. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  take,  and  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  take,  all
measures  necessary  to  comply  with,  or  all  measures  necessary  to  enable  the  Project

-6-

Implementing  Entity  and  Ma'anshan  Municipality  to  comply  with,  the  provisions  of
Section  I.C  of the Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the
progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of indicators  agreed  with  the
Bank and  set forth in the Operational  Manual.  Each Project  Report shall  cover the period
of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later than  45  days  after
the  end of the period covered  by such  report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  or  cause to  be  maintained,  a  financial  management  system
in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 5.09  of the  General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
the Project  Implementing  Entity  to prepare  and  furnish  to the Bank,  as  part  of the Project
Report, not  later than  45  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited
financial  reports  for the Project  covering the  semester,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory
to  the Bank.

the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  its  Financial
The  Borrower  shall  cause 
Statements  audited  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General
Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal
year  of the Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end  of  such  period.  The
Borrower  shall  make,  or  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  make,  the  audited
Financial  Statements  publicly  available  in  a timely  fashion and  in  a manner acceptable  to
the Bank.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the Project  and to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in  accordance  with the  requirements  set forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the  provisions of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  and
with the provisions  of this  Section.

-7-

A. 

I .

B. 

I .

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the  corresponding  method  described  in Sections  II and  III of the Procurement  Guidelines,
or  Sections  II, III,  IV  and  V of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

table  specifies 

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following 
International
Competitive  Bidding, which  may  be  used  for  goods, works  and  non-consulting  services.
The Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances  under  which  such  methods  may be
used.

the  methods  of  procurement,  other 

than 

Procurement Methods

(a) 

National  Competitive  Bidding.  The  procedures  to  be  followed  for
National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  set  forth  in  the  Law  on
Tendering  and Bidding  of the  People's  Republic  of China  promulgated
by  Order  No. 21  of the  President  of the  People's  Republic  of China on
August  30,  1999,  with  the  following  modifications 
required  for
compliance  with the  Procurement  Guidelines:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

All  invitations  to  prequalify  or  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  a
newspaper  of  national  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  territory,
except  for  civil  works  contracts  that  are  estimated  to  cost  less
than  $2,000,000  equivalent  each  and  for  goods  contracts  that
are  estimated  to  cost less  than $300,000  equivalent  each,  which
may  be  advertised 
in  a  provincial  daily  newspaper.  Such
advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient  time  for  prospective
bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding  documents  and
prepare  and  submit their responses.  In any event,  a minimum  of
thirty  (30)  days  shall  be  given  to  bidders  between  the  date  of
advertisement 
for
submission  of  bids,  and 
the  advertisement  and  bidding
documents  shall  specify the  deadline for such  submission.

in  such  newspaper  and 

the  deadline 

Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and 
the  method  of
evaluating  the  qualification  of each  bidder  shall  be  specified  in
detail in  the bidding  documents.

All  bidders  that meet the  qualification  criteria  set out  in  the  pre-
qualification  document  shall  be  allowed  to  bid  and  there  shall
be no  limit on the number  of pre-qualified  bidders.

-8-

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

All  bidders  shall  be  required  to  provide  security  in  an  amount
sufficient  to  protect  the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing
Entity,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  case  of breach  of contract  by the
contractor, and  the  bidding documents  shall  specify the  required
form and  amount of such  security.

Bidders will  be  allowed to  submit  bids  by  mail  or  by  hand. The
time for  opening  of all  bids  shall  be  the same  as  the deadline  for
receipt of such  bids.

All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall  be  offered
an  opportunity  to  be  present  (either  in  person  or  through  their
representatives)  at the  time of bid  opening,  but bidders  shall  not
be required to  be present  at the bid  opening.

(vii) 

All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding
documents  and  quantified  in monetary  terms  or expressed  in the
form  of pass/fail  requirements.

(viii)  No  bid  may  be  rejected  solely  on  the  basis  that  the  bid  price
falls  outside  any  standard  contract  estimate,  or  margin  or
bracket  of  average  bids  established  by  the  Borrower  or  the
Project Implementing  Entity, as  the case  may  be.

to 

the 

Each  contract  shall  be  awarded 
lowest  evaluated
responsive  bidder, that  is, the  bidder who meets  the  appropriate
standards  of capability  and  resources  and  whose  bid  has  been
determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to  the  bidding
documents;  and  (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The
winning bidder  shall not  be required,  as a  condition  of award,  to
undertake  responsibilities  for work  not  stipulated  in the  bidding
documents  or  otherwise 
the  bid  as  originally
submitted.

to  modify 

Each  contract  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall
provide that the  suppliers  and  contractors  shall  permit the  Bank,
at  its  request,  to  inspect  their  accounts  and  records  relating  to
the  performance  of the  contract  and  to  have  said  accounts  and
records  audited  by auditors  appointed  by the Bank.

Government  owned  enterprises  in the  Borrower's  territory  may
be  permitted  to  bid  or  submit  a  proposal  of goods  and  works  if
they  can- establish  that  they:  (A)  are  legally  and  financially
autonomous;  (B)  operate  under commercial  law; and  (C)  are  not
a  dependent  agency of the agency conducting  the  procurement.

(xii) 

All  bids  should  not  be  rejected  solely  because  the  number  of

-9-

bids  is  less  than three  (3),  and  rejection  of all  bids  or rebidding
the  Bank's  prior  written
shall  not 
concurrence.

take  place  without 

(xiii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be
published  in  the  national  press  or  provincial  press  (as  provided
under  sub-paragraph  (i) above)  or official  gazette  or  a  free  and
open  access  website  and  shall  identify  the  name  and  offered
price  of  the  winning  bidder,  as  well  as  the  duration  and
summary  scope of the  awarded  contract.

(xiv)  The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  have  in place  provisions

for bidders  to protest.

(b) 

(c) 

Shopping

Direct Contracting

C. 

1 .

2. 

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2  below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of Quality-
and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,
which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the
circumstances  under which  such methods  may be  used:

Procurement  Methods

(a)  Quality-Based  Selection

(b) 

(c) 

Selection Based  on the  Consultants'  Qualifications

Selection  of Individual Consultants

(d)  Single  Source  Selection  (Firm and  Individual)

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those  contracts  which  shall be  subject to  the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be subject to Post  Review by  the  Bank.

-10-

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice 
to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time to  time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible Expenditures  as set forth  in the table  in  paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of
the  Loan  to  each Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be  financed  for  Eligible
Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

(1) Goods and  Works 

(2)  Consultants'  services  and 
Training

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 
98,230,000 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
90%

1,520,000 

100%

(3) Front-end  Fee 

250,000 

of 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement  in  accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the  General
Conditions
Amount 
Section 
Agreement

due 
2.07(c) 

pursuant 

to
this

of 

Interest  Rate  Cap  or 

(4) 
Interest Rate  Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

100,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made  in
respect  of payments  made  prior to the  date  of this Agreement,  except  that withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $5,000,000  equivalent  may  be made  for  payments
made prior to  this date  but on or  after April  1, 2013,  for  all Eligible  Expenditures.

2. 

The Closing Date  is January  31,  2019.

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

.__(Expressed 

Installment Share

as  a Percentage)

On each  March  15  and  September  15

Beginning  September  15,  2018 
through March  15,  2043

2.00%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the  date of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying  the amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date, such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be repayable  on  each Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the second  Principal  Payment  Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

-12-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such  billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the exchange  rate that  reflects the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component of the  Screen  Rate.

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of  this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency,  so as to  produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such amount.

-13-

APPENDIX

Section  1.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"
dated January  2011.

"Displaced  Persons" means  persons who,  on account  of the execution  of the Project,  have
experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused  by:  (a)  the
involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets
or  access  to assets;  or (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or means  of livelihood,  whether or  not
such  persons  must  move to  another location;  or (b)  the involuntary  restriction  of access  to
impacts  on  the
legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse 
livelihood  of  such  persons;  and  a  "Displaced  Person"  means  any  of  such  Displaced
Persons.

"Environmental  Codes  of  Practice"  or  the  acronym  "ECOPs"  means  the  detailed
practices  to  address  construction  related  impacts  of the  Project  implementation,  included
in the EMP.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  the  acronym  "EMP"  means  the  Environmental
Management  Plan  dated  October  13,  2012,  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
and  included  in  the  Operational  Manual,  which  sets  forth  the  environmental  protection
measures  in  respect  of the  Project  (including  the  ECOPs),  as  well  as  administrative  and
monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure  the  implementation  of said  plan,  as  said  plan  may  be
revised  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term
includes  all schedules  and agreements  supplemental  thereto.

"Financial  Management  Manual"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  manual
setting  out  financial  management,  disbursement,  and  audit  procedures  to  be  observed  in
the carrying  out of the  Project  consistent with  the provisions  in  Section II.B  of Schedule  2
to  the Loan  Agreement, and  included as  part of the Operational  Manual.

'General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"Ma'anshan  Municipality"  means  the Borrower's  Municipality  of Ma'anshan,  located  in
Anhui  Province,  or any  successor thereto.

-14-

10. 

11. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"MCRD"  means  Ma'anshan  Caishi  River  and  Cihu  River  Comprehensive  Development
Co.  Ltd.,  a  company  wholly  owned  by  the  Municipality  of  Ma'anshan  and  established
and  operating  pursuant  to  its  registration  at  Ma'anshan  Administration  of  Industry  and
Commerce  dated  September  17,  2003,  or  any  successor  thereto.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  (which  includes  the  Financial  Management
Manual,  the  Procurement  Management  Manual,  the  Procurement  Plan,  the  EMP,  the
RAP,  the  Project  performance 
indicators,  technical  models,  and  other  operational
arrangements  for  the  project)  dated  March  8, 2013,  prepared  and  adopted  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity, through  Ma'anshan  Municipality,. and  referred  to  in  paragraph  6 of
Section  I.A  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from
time  to time  with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank.

12. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

1.  "Procurement  Management  Manual"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  manual
setting  out  the  procurement  principles  and  procedures  to  be  observed  in  the carrying  out
of the Project,  and  included  as  part of the  Operational  Manual.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for the Project,  dated  March
8, 2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1. 18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph
1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Agreement"  means 
the  agreement  between 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity  of even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time;  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to  the  Project
Agreement.

the  Bank  and 

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  Borrower's  Anhui  Province,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Project  Leading  Group"  means the  Project  Leading  Group  established  by  the  Ma'anshan
Municipality,  on  August  2012,  to  provide  overall 
leadership,  policy  guidance  and
institutional  coordination  in Project  preparation  and  implementation,  and  any  successor
thereto,  and  referred  to  in  Section 

.A.  (a)  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement.

"Project  Management  Office"  means  the  Project  Management  Office,  established  by
Ma'anshan  Municipality,  on  August  2012,  to  coordinate  the  preparation  of the  Project
and  supervise  and  monitor  its  implementation,  and  referred  to  in  Section b.A  1(b)  of the
Schedule  to the Project Agreement.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  the  acronym  "RAP"  means  the  plan,  dated  October  30,
2012,  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  included 
in  the  Operational
Manual,  which  sets  forth  the  principles  and  procedures  governing  the  acquisition  of land
and  other  assets,  and  the  resettlement,  compensation  and  rehabilitation  of  Displaced

-15-

Persons  on  account  of the  execution  of the  Project,  as  well  as  monitoring  and  reporting
arrangements  to  ensure  compliance  with  said  plan,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from time
to  time  with the  prior agreement  of the  Bank.

"Training"  means the  costs of training  activities  under  the  Project,  based  on  annual  work
plans  and  budgets  approved  by  the  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,  workshops,  and
domestic  and  overseas  study  trips,  along  with  travel  and  subsistence  allowances  for
training  participants,  services  of trainers,  rental  of  training  facilities,  preparation  and
reproduction  of  training  materials,  and  other  activities  directly  related  to  course
preparation  and  implementation.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  Ma'anshan
Municipality  and  MCRD  pursuant  to  Section  I.A.2  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all
schedules  and  supplements to said  agreement.

20. 

21. 

-16-

