OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8233-CN

Loan Agreement

(Green Energy  for Low-Carbon  City in  Shanghai Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

)tI 

/4- 

,2013

LOAN  NUMBER  8233-CN

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement,  dated  9- 

CHINA  ("Borrower")  and 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").

c  /  4 

,  2013,  between  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

WHEREAS:

(A) 

(B) 

the Borrower  has  requested  the  Bank to  provide  assistance  towards the  financing
of the  project  described in  Schedule  I to this  Agreement  ("Project");  and

by  an  agreement  of  even  date  herewith  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,
acting  as  an  Implementing  Agency  of the  Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF)
("GEF Grant  Agreement"),  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  provide  such  assistance  in  an
amount  of 
thousand
Dollars ($4,345,000) ("Grant")  to  assist in financing  Part  1 of the Project;  and

four  million 

hundred 

three 

forty 

five 

and 

NOW the  Borrower  and  the Bank hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this Agreement,  the  amount  of one hundred  million  Dollars  ($100,000,000),  as such
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion 
in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in
financing  Part  2 of the Project.

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of  one
percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the Reference  Rate  for the Loan  Currency  plus  the Variable  Spread;  provided  that upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in

accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty (30)  days,  then
in
the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided 
Section  3.02 (e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment  Dates are  March  I and  September  1 in each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i) a  change of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  un-withdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest Rate  Collar  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference
Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article IV of the  General Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has requested  that  the premium  be  paid  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself  the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in the  table  in  Section  IV of
Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall cause  Part  2  of the  Project to  be carried  out by  the  Participating  Financial
Intermediaries  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions
and the Project  Agreement.

-2-

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  is carried  out in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the  date ninety  (90) days  after the  date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address is:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
China

Facsimile:

86-10-6855-1125

5.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at Beijing, China,  as of the day  and year first  above  written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

t',

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR/
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

Title: 

/Col
le-1-1s 

A

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objectives  of the  Project are to pilot green-energy  schemes  and  scale  up  low-carbon
investments  in  buildings  in  Shanghai  Municipality,  with a  focus  on  Changning  District,  and  the
higher-level  global  environment  objective  of the  Project  is  to  support  Shanghai  Municipality's
low-carbon  city  development  by  promoting  green-energy  schemes,  with  a  focus  on  Changning
District.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

1 .

Technical  Assistance  and  Incremental  Support  for Near  Zero-Emission  Buildings

(a) 

Green-Energy  Buildings

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

Provision  of technical  assistance  to and  capacity  building  of Changning
District 
is,
implementation  of energy-efficiency  and  renewable-energy  technologies
in existing  buildings.

retrofitting  of  buildings, 

the  green-energy 

that 

for 

Demonstration  of  at  least  one  (1)  near  zero-emission  building 
Changning  District.

in

(b) 

Low-Carbon  Energy  Supply

Provision of technical  assistance  to  Changning  District for  the  implementation  of
distributed  generation  from  renewable  energy  and  natural  gas  and  a  pilot  carbon
emissions  cap and  trade  scheme.

(c) 

Green Mobility

Provision  of technical  assistance  to  Changning  District for the  design  and  development  of
implementation  plans for the  improvement  of local  public transport  systems  to discourage
the use  of private  vehicles.

(d) 

Capacity  Building and  Project Management  Support

Carrying  out  of  due  diligence  reviews  of  Part  2  of  the  Project,  and
promotion  of low-carbon  investments.

Capacity  building  of  key  stakeholders 
implementation  of low-carbon initiatives.

for 

the  development  and

(iii) 

Project  management, implementation,  and monitoring  and evaluation  and
donor coordination.

-5-

2. 

(a) 

Low-Carbon  Investments

Green-Energy  Retrofitting  of Buildings

Implementation  of low-carbon  technologies  in  existing buildings.

(b) 

New  Green-Energy  Buildings

Implementation  of low-carbon  technologies  above  municipal  building  code  requirements
in new buildings.

-6-

SCHEDULE 2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

A. 

On-lending

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of the  Project, the  Borrower  shall  make the  proceeds  of the
Loan  available to  Shanghai  Municipality,  and  shall  cause  Shanghai  Municipality  to make
such  proceeds  available  to Changuing  District, both  under  terms and  conditions  approved
by the Bank,  which  shall include  the  following:

(a) 

the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  made  available  shall  be:  (i)  denominated  and
in  Dollars;  (ii)  charged  a  front-end  fee  at  the  rate  set  forth  in
repayable 
Section  2.03  of  this  Agreement;  (iii)  charged  interest  on  the  principal  amount
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time to  time  at the  rate  set forth  in  Section  2.04
of this Agreement;  and  (iv) repayable  over the  period  set forth  in  Section  2.06  of
this Agreement;  and

(b) 

Changning  District  shall  make  such  proceeds  available  to  the  Participating
Financial  Intermediaries  under  the same  terms  and conditions.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  on-lending  arrangements  referred  to  in
the preceding  paragraph  in  such  a  manner  as to  protect  its  interests  and those  of the Bank
and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree  in writing, the  Borrower shall  not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or waive,  or permit to  be
assigned,  amended,  abrogated  or waived,  such rights.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

C. 

1 .

Operational Manual

The Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

cause the  Project  Implementing  Entities to  ensure  that the Project is  carried  out in
accordance  with  the provisions  of the Operational  Manual;  and

except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,
or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  the
aforementioned,  or any  provision  thereof.

2. 

In the  event  of a  conflict  between  the  provisions  of the  Operational  Manual  and  those  of
this Agreement,  the latter  shall  govern.

-7-

Safeguards

D. 

1. 

in  accordance  with 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  ensure  that the  Project  is
the  provisions  of  the  Environmental  and  Social
carried  out 
Management  Framework  and  any  Environmental  Management  Plans,  and,  except  as  the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the Borrower  shall  not assign,  amend,  abrogate, or
waive,  or  permit to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  the  aforementioned,  or
any provision  thereof.

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  ensure  that  no  land
acquisition  or Involuntary Resettlement  is  carried  out under  the Project.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting,  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Participating  Financial  Intermediaries  to  monitor  and
evaluate  the  progress  of their  Respective  Part of the Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports
for their  Respective  Part  of the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08
of the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of the  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one  (1)  calendar  semester,  and
shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by  such  report.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause to  be  maintained  a  financial  management  system  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
the Participating  Financial  Intermediaries  to prepare  and furnish  to  the Bank as  part of the
Project  Report  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,
interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  their  Respective  Part  of the  Project  covering  the
semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to  the Bank.

in  accordance  with  the
The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited 
provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the  Financial
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  (1)  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited
Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than
six (6)  months after the  end  of such  period.

Section  1H. 

Procurement

A. 

General

Goods,  Works,  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works,  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall

-8-

be  procured  in accordance  with  the requirements  set  forth  or referred to  in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

2. 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer to
the corresponding  method described  in  Section III  of the Procurement  Guidelines.

B. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works, and Non-consulting  Services

Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial  Practices.
Goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on
the  basis  of  Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial
Practices  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to  the Bank,  as  described  in  the Operational
Manual.

C. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

All  contracts  shall  be  subject to Post Review  by the  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower,may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  "World  Bank
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including 
Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible Expenditures  as set forth  in the table  in paragraph  2 below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of
the Loan to  each Category,  and the percentage  of expenditures  to  be  financed  for Eligible
Expenditures  in each  Category.

-9-

Category 

(1) Low-Carbon  Investment 
Subproject  Loans  made by 
Bank  of Shanghai

(2)  Low-Carbon  Investment 
Subproject Loans  made  by 
Shanghai  Pudong
Development  Bank

(3)  Low-Carbon  Investment 
Subproject  Loans  made  by 
either or both  of the
Participating  Financial
Intermediaries

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

40,000,000 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

100%
of amounts  disbursed

40,000,000 

100%
of amounts  disbursed

19,750,000 

100%
of amounts  disbursed

(4)  Front-end  Fee 

250,000 

Amount  payable pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

Amount due pursuant  to
Section  2.07  (c)  of this
Agreement

(5) Interest  Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate Collar  premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

100,000,000

B. 

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be made:

(a) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals
up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $20,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made
for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  November  1,  2012  for
the
Eligible  Expenditures  under  Categories 
requirements  set forth  in Annex  B to  the  Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement  have
been  met;

(2),  provided 

(1)  and 

that 

(b) 

for  payments  under  Categories  (1)  and  (3),  unless  a  Subsidiary  Agreement  has
in
been  executed  on  behalf  of  Changning  District  and  Bank  of  Shanghai 

- 10-

accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I.A. 1 of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement;

(c) 

for  payments  under  Categories  (2)  and  (3),  unless  a  Subsidiary  Agreement  has
been  executed  on  behalf  of  Changning  District  and  Shanghai  Pudong
Development  Bank  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I.A. I of  the
Schedule  to the  Project Agreement;  or

(d) 

for payments under Category  (3),  unless  the allocation  of the amount  of the Loan
to either  Category (1) or (2)  has been  fully  disbursed.

2. 

The  Closing Date  is  December  31,  2018.

- 11 -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of the Loan  in  full  on  March  1, 2025.

- 12-

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and Corruption  in Projects  Financed by IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits  and Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised in January  2011.

"Bank  of  Shanghai  Company  Limited"  or  "Bank  of  Shanghai"  means  the  Borrower's
partly-owned  enterprise  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Company
Law  of  1996  and  Bank  of Shanghai's  Business  Registration  No.  310000400138557  and
its  charter  dated June 3, 2010,  or a  successor  thereto.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Changning  District"  means  the  Borrower's  administrative  subdivision  of  such  name
under  Shanghai  Municipality  (as hereinafter  defined),  or a successor  thereto.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by World  Bank  Borrowers",
dated  January 2011.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  means  the  Project  Implementing
framework,  part  of  the  Operational  Manual  (as
Entities  (as  hereinafter  defined)' 
hereinafter  defined)  and  agreed  with  the  Bank,  setting  forth  mitigation,  enhancement,
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training,  to
eliminate  any  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented
under  the  Project,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels,  or  enhance  positive
impacts,  and  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the  screening  of  Low-Carbon  Investment
Subprojects  (as  hereinafter defined),  as  the same  may be  modified  from  time to  time  with
the  prior written  agreement  of the Bank,  and such  term  includes  any annexes,  appendices,
or schedules  to  such  framework.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  means  a  Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan
Beneficiary  (as  hereinafter  defined)'s  plan,  prepared  pursuant to  the  Environmental  and
Social  Management  Framework,  agreed  with  the  Bank,  and  setting  forth  mitigation,
enhancement,  monitoring, and  institutional  measures,  including capacity  building through
training, to  eliminate  any adverse  environmental  impacts  of activities  to  be  implemented
under  a  Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject,  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to  acceptable
levels,  or enhance  positive  impacts,  as the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with
the prior written  agreement  of the  Bank, and  such term  includes any  annexes,  appendices,
or  schedules  to  such plan.

8. 

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

- 13  -

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

the  following  caused  on  account  of  Project
'"Involuntary  Resettlement"  means 
implementation:  (a)  the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i) relocation  or  loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or access  to  assets;  or (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or means  of
livelihood,  whether  or not  the  affected  person  must  move  to  another  location;  or (b)  the
involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas  resulting
in  adverse  impacts  on  the livelihood  of the  affected  person.

"Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject"  means  a  specific  low-carbon  investment  activity
carried  out  under  Part  2  of the  Project,  financed  or  proposed  to  be  financed  through  a
Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan (as  hereinafter  defined)  in  accordance  with  the
criteria  set forth  in  Part  B  of Annex  B  to the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement  and  in
further  detail  in the Operational  Manual.

"Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan"  means  a loan  made  or  proposed  to be  made
to  a  Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan  Beneficiary  (as  hereinafter  defined)  out  of
the  proceeds  of the  Loan  to  finance  a  Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  pursuant  to  a
Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan Agreement  (as hereinafter  defined).

"Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan Agreement"  means  an  agreement, referred  to
in  Part  C  of Annex  B  to  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  between  either  of the
Participating  Financial  Intermediaries  and  a  Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan
Beneficiary,  setting  forth  the  terms  and  conditions  governing  a  Low-Carbon  Investment
Subproject Loan.

"Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan  Beneficiary"  means  an  individual  or an  entity
meeting  specific  criteria  set forth  in the  Operational  Manual  and  which  is  the  beneficiary
of a  Low-Carbon  Investment  Subproject  Loan  and  party  to  a  Low-Carbon  Investment
Subproject Loan  Agreement.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  Participating  Financial  Intermediaries  (as  hereinafter
defined)'  manual,  dated  September  2012  and  agreed  with  the  Bank,  setting  forth
implementation,  organizational,  administrative,  monitoring  and  evaluation,  financial
of
procurement 
management, 
implementation  of  Part  2  of  the  Project,  including  criteria,  procedures,  and  terms  for
the  Environmental  and  Social
Low-Carbon 
Management  Framework,  as the  same may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with the  prior
written  agreement  of the  Bank, and  such  term  includes any  annexes  or  schedules  to  such
manual.

Investment  Subprojects,  and  including 

for  purposes 

disbursement, 

arrangements 

and 

"Participating  Financial  Intermediaries"  means,  collectively,  Bank  of  Shanghai  and
Shanghai Pudong  Development  Bank (as  hereinafter  defined).

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers",  dated January  2011.

- 14  -

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means,  individually:  (i) Changning  District;  (ii)  Bank  of
Shanghai  Company  Limited;  and  (iii)  Shanghai  Pudong  Development  Bank  Company
Limited;  and  "Project  Implementing Entities"  means  all of said  entities.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means:  (a)  for  Changning  District,  the
Borrower's  Constitution  of  2004;  (b)  for  Bank  of  Shanghai,  the  Borrower's  Company
Law  of  1996  and  Bank  of Shanghai's  Business  Registration  No.  310000400138557  and
its  charter  dated  June  3,  2010;  (c)  for  Shanghai  Pudong  Development  Bank,  the
Borrower's  Company  Law of  1996 and  Shanghai  Pudong Development  Bank's  Business
Registration  No.  310000000013047  and  its  charter  dated  February  12,  2011;  and  such
term  includes  any  other  legal  instruments  governing  the  organization,  reorganization,
restructuring,  and  operations  of the  Project  Implementing  Entities  as  of the  date  of this
Agreement.

"Respective  Part of the Project"  means  the  following:  (i) for Changning  District, Part  1 of
the  Project;  and  (ii)  for  the  Participating  Financial  Intermediaries,  collectively,  Part  2  of
the Project.

"Shanghai  Municipality"  means  the  Borrower's  administrative  subdivision  of such  name
in  the east of its territory, or a  successor thereto.

"Shanghai  Pudong  Development  Bank  Company  Limited"  or  "Shanghai  Pudong
Development  Bank"  means  the  Borrower's  partly-owned  enterprise  established  and
operating  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Company  Law  of  1996  and  Shanghai  Pudong
Development  Bank's  Business  Registration  No.  310000000013047  and  its  charter  dated
February  12,  2011,  or a successor thereto.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  L.A  of the  Schedule
to  the  Project  Agreement  pursuant to  which  Changning  District  shall  make  the  proceeds
of the Loan  available  to the Participating  Financial  Intermediaries.

Section  H. 

Modifications  to  the General Conditions

The  modification  to  the  General  Conditions  is  as  follows,  namely,  that  Section  2.05  (a)  is
modified to  read as follows  (emphasis  added):

"(a) 

the  payment  is  for  the  reasonable  cost  of  low-carbon  investment  subproject
loans  required  for the  Project,  to  be financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan  and  procured,  all  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of the Legal  Agreements;"

-15 

-

