OiAL
DOJUMENT4

LOAN  NUMBER  8232-JO

(Micro,  Small,  and  Medium  Enterprise  Development  For  Inclusive Growth  Project)

Loan  Agreement

HASHEMITE  KINGDOM  OF JORDAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  MO lc 

\ 

,2013

LOAN  NUMBER  8232-JO

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  MAQXCA 
\ 
,  2013,  between  the  HASHEMITE
KINGDOM  OF  JORDAN  ("Borrower")  and 
the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I -GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part  of this  Agreement,

in  the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless 

the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this  Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.04. 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and  conditions set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement, 
the  amount  of  seventy  million  United  States
Dollars  ($70,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a Currency Conversion  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07
of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described 
in
Schedule  I to this  Agreement  ("Project").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for
purposes  of taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be pursuant  to  this  Section
is  the  Governor  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  or  any  authorized  designated
person by  the Governor.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such
non-payment  continues  for a  period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then  the  interest  payable
by the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the
General  Conditions.

-2-

The Payment  Dates  are  September  15  and  March  15  in each  year.

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule set  forth  in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.05. 

2.06. 

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at  any time request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in order to  facilitate prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  and (ii)  a change of the interest  rate basis  applicable to: (A)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a Variable  Rate based  on  a Fixed  Reference Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Spread.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  Tdfils
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and  the Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the
Project 
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as  to  affect  materially and  adversely  the ability
of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the
Project Agreement.

-3  -

4.02. 

The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consist  of  the  following,  namely  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a
period  of six  (6)  months  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to
the  Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower
and  the Project  Implementing  Entity.

The  Project  Operational  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  has  been
finalized  and  adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the 

the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower and
the Project  Implementing  Entity  and  is legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and the
Project  Implementing  Entity  in accordance  with  its  terms.

following,  namely 

that 

5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this

Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative 
international  cooperation.

is 

its  Minister 

in  charge  of  planning  and

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Planning and  International  Cooperation
Post  office  Box  555
Amman,  I 1118
The  Hashemite  Kingdom  of Jordan

Facsimile:
962-6-464-9341

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-5-

AGREED  at  _______ 

__ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

,  as  of the day  and  year first  above

written.

HASHEMITE  KINGDOM  OF  JORDAN

Authorized 

resentative

Name:

Title: 

1PCoL 

CL

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION

AND  DEVELOPMENT

By:

By:

Authorized  Representative

Name:  V&J  ALb

Title: 

c~A1f 

~  d  i

-6-

SCHEDULE  I

Project  Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  contribute  to  the  improvement  of  access  to

finance  for micro,  small  and  medium  enterprises  in the  Hashemite  Kingdom of Jordan.

The  Project  consists of the following  part:

I. 

Lines  of Credits

Provision  of PFI  Loans  to  eligible  PFIs  for  the  purposes  of on-lending  as  Sub-

loans  to Eligible  Beneficiaries  or MFIs  for the  carrying  out of Sub-projects.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the
Project  in  accordance  with  this  Agreement,  the  Project Operational  Manual,  the
Project Agreement  and  the  ESMF  and  shall ensure  that  the  Project Implementing
Entity  does  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of the
Project  Operational  Manual,  Project  Agreement  and  ESMF,  without  prior
approval  of the Bank.

Subsidiary Agreement

To  facilitate the carrying out of the  Project, the  Borrower shall  make the proceeds
of the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  as  a  loan  under  a
subsidiary agreement  between the  Borrower  and  the  Project  Implementing Entity,
under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  ("Subsidiary  Agreement")
which  shall  include  inter  alia  the  following:  (a)  repayment  of  the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan's  currency;  (b)  interest  rate  charged  on  such  principal
amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to  time  in  accordance with  Article
11 of this  Agreement  and  Article  Ill  of the  General  Conditions;  (c)  payment  of
any  further  charges  as  may  be  required  by  the  Borrower;  and  (d)  foreign
exchange risk to be borne  by the  Project Implementing  Entity.

The  Borrower  shall  fulfill  its  obligations  and  exercise  its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  in such  manner  as  to  protect  the interests  of the Borrower
and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive
the  Subsidiary Agreement  or any  of its  provisions.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

PFI Agreements

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  enter  into  a  PFI
Agreement  with  each  PFI  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual  and  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  acceptable  to  the

B. 

1. 

2. 

D. 

1. 

-8-

Bank,  and  monitor  compliance by  each  PFI  with  the terms  and conditions  of each
PFI  Agreement.  The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  exercise  its  rights  under
each  PFI  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  Borrower,  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the purposes  of
the  Loan.2. 
terms  and
conditions  approved by  the  Bank  which  shall  include the  following:

Each  PFI  Agreement  shall  be  entered 

into  on 

(a) 

The PFI  Loan:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(i) 

may  be  denominated  and  repayable  in  Jordanian  Dinars  or
foreign currency;

shall  be  charged  interest  on  the  principal  amount  withdrawn  and
outstanding from  time to  time;  and

shall  be repayable  over a period  not  exceeding fifteen  (15)  years
from  the  date  of disbursement  of the  PFI  Loan,  inclusive  of  a
grace period  not exceeding five (5) years.

(b) 

The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect
its  interests  and  those  of the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  including the  right
to:

suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of the  PFI  to  use  the  proceeds  of
the  PFI  Loan,  or  declare  to  be  immediately  due  and  payable  or
obtain  a refund  of all  or any  part  of the  amount  of the  PFI  Loan
then  withdrawn,  upon  the  PFI's  failure  to  perform  any  of its
obligations  under the PFI  Loan Agreement;  and

(ii) 

require each  PFI  to:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

economic, 

carry  out 
its  obligations  under  PFI  Loans  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound
technical, 
managerial,
environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines
applicable to  recipients  of Loan  proceeds  other  than  the
Borrower;

financial, 

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for
the  purpose;

cause  the  Eligible  Beneficiaries  to  procure  the  goods,
works and  services to be  financed out  of the Sub-loans  in
accordance  with the  provisions of this  Agreement;

-9-

(D) 

maintain  policies and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it to
monitor  and  evaluate 
indicators
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of the  Sub-project
and  the achievement of its objectives;

in  accordance  with 

(E) 

(1) 

(2) 

maintain  a  financial  management  system  and
prepare  financial  statements  in  accordance  with
consistently  applied 
standards
acceptable 
the  Bank,  both 
in  a  manner
adequate  to  reflect the  operations,  resources  and
expenditures related  to the  Sub-project;  and

accounting 

to 

have  such 
financial  statements  audited  by
independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in
accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  promptly
furnish  the  statements  as  so  audited  to  the
Borrower, 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity;

Bank 

and 

the 

(F) 

(G) 

the  Borrower, 

enable 
Implementing  Entity 
the  Sub-project, 
operation  and  any  relevant records  and  documents;  and

the  Bank  and 
inspect 

the  Project
its

to 

prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower,  the  Bank  and  the
Project Implementing  Entity  all  such  information  as  the
Borrower  or  the  Bank  or  the  Project 
Implementing
Entity  shall  reasonably request relating to  the foregoing.

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  fulfills  its
obligations  and  exercise  its  rights under  each  PFI  Agreement  in  such manner  as
to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower,  the  Bank  and  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall
otherwise  agree, 
Implementing  Entity  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate or waive  any  PFI  Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

the  Project 

E. 

Sub-projects  Selection

The  Borrower  shall cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to ensure  that  PFIs:

(a) 

Select  Eligible  Beneficiaries  or  MFI  which  comply  with  the  eligibility
criteria  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual  which  shall  include,
but  not  be  limited  to, that  the  Eligible  Beneficiaries  or  MFIs  shall  have
an  ownership,  management  and  financial  structure  consistent  with  the
laws and  regulations of the  Borrower.

-10-

(b) 

Screen  and  select  Sub-projects  in  accordance  with  the  selection  and
eligibility criteria set  forth in  the Project  Operational  Manual  and  EMSF.
The  following Sub-projects  shall  not  be  eligible  for  financing,  as  further
set  forth  in the Project  Operational  Manual:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

any  Sub-projects  involving  non-eligible  expenditures  (as  such
term  is defined  in the  Project  Operational Manual);

any  Sub-projects  affecting  international  waterways,  natural
habitats, disputed areas or  indigenous peoples;

any  Sub-projects  involving  the  conversion  or  degradation  of
forest areas;

any  Sub-projects 
involving  the  involuntary  taking  of  land  or
involuntary  resettlement  resulting in  relocation  or  loss  of shelter,
loss  of  assets  or  access  to  assets,  loss  of  income  sources  or
means  of livelihood,  or  involving  the  involuntary  restriction  of
access to  legally designated  parks and  protected areas;

any  Sub-projects  involving the construction  and  rehabilitation  of
dams;  and

any  Sub-projects  that  would  be  classified  as  'Category  A'  in
accordance  with  the Banks policies and procedures.

(c) 

Ensure that  no  Eligible Beneficiary or  MFI shall  receive Sub-loans for  an
aggregate  amount  greater  than  fifteen  percent  (15%)  of the  PFI  Loan
from the same  PFI  except as  approved  in writing by  the Bank.

Sub-loan  Agreements

F. 

I1. 

into  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set 

Each  Sub-loan  Agreement  between  a PFI  and  an  Eligible  Beneficiary  or  MFI
shall  be  entered 
forth  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual  and  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  and the  PFI  shall monitor  compliance  by each  Eligible Beneficiary  or MFI
with the  terms  and  conditions of each Sub-loan  Agreement;  and  shall  exercise its
rights  under  each  Sub-loan  Agreement  in  such  manner as  to  protect the  interests
of  the  Borrower, 
to
accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.  Each  Sub-loan  Agreement  shall  include the
following:

the  Bank  and  the  Project 

Implementing  Entity  and 

(a) 

The  Sub-loan  may be  denominated  and  repayable  in  Jordanian  Dinars  or
foreign  currency.

- 11  -

(b) 

The  PFI  shall  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank, including the  right to:

(i) 

suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of the  Eligible  Beneficiary  to  use
the  proceeds  of the  Sub-loan,  or  declare  to  be  immediately  due
and  payable or obtain  a refund of all or any  part  of the amount  of
the  Sub-loan  then  withdrawn,  upon  the  Eligible  Beneficiary's
failure  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Sub-loan
Agreement;  and

(ii) 

require each  Eligible  Beneficiary to:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

in  accordance  with  sound 

its  Sub-project  with  due  diligence  and
carry  out 
technical,
efficiency  and 
economic, 
financial,  managerial,  environmental  and
social  standards  and  practices  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
including  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of loan
proceeds other  than the Borrower;

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for
the purpose;

procure  the  goods,  works  and  services to  be financed  out
of the  Sub-loan  in accordance  with  the provisions  of this
Agreement;

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to enable  it to
monitor  and  evaluate 
indicators
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of the  Sub-project
and the achievement of its objectives;

in  accordance  with 

(E) 

(I) 

maintain  a  financial  management  system  and
prepare 
in  a  manner
adequate  to  reflect  the operations,  resources  and
expenditures  related to the Sub-project;  and

financial  statements 

(2) 

at  the  Bank's  or  the  Borrower's  or  the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  reasonable  request,  have
such financial  statements audited  by  independent
auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance
with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards
acceptable to  the Bank,  and promptly  furnish the
statements  as  so  audited  to  the  Borrower,  the
Bank and  the Project  Implementing  Entity;

-12-

(F) 

(G) 

the  Borrower, 

enable 
Project
Implementing  Entity  and  the  PFI  to  inspect  the  Sub-
project, 
its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents; and

Bank, 

the 

the 

prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower,  the  Bank,  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  and 
all  such
information  as  the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  or  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  or  the PFI  shall  reasonably  request
relating  to the foregoing.

the  PFI 

2. 

3. 

Notwithstanding  the  forgoing,  for  purposes  of a  Sub-loan  to  an  MFI,  the  PFI
shall  ensure  that  the  MFI  shall:  (i)  screen  and  select  Eligible  Beneficiaries;  and
(ii)  make  available  the  proceeds  of the  Sub-loan  to  Eligible  Beneficiaries  in
accordance  with  the Project  Operational  Manual and  on terms  and  conditions set
forth  in this  Agreement.

The  PFI  shall exercise  its  rights  under each  Sub-loan  Agreement  in  such  manner
as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the
purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree, 
the  PFI  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  Sub-loan
Agreement  or any of its provisions.

G. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall cause  the  Project Implementing  Entity  to ensure  the Project  is
carried out  in  accordance with  the ESMF  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend, abrogate,
repeal  or waive  any  provision  of the  ESMF  without prior approval  of the Bank.
The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure  that
adequate  information  on  the  implementation  of the  ESMF  is  included  in  the
Project Reports referred  to in  Section II.A.  of this  Schedule.

13-

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project  Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and
evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance
with  the provisions  of Section 5.08  of the  General Conditions  and  on  the basis  of
indicators  acceptable  to the Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period of
one  (1) calendar semester,  and  shall be  furnished  to the Bank  not  later than  forty
five (45)  days after the end  of the  period  covered  by such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and  Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a financial  management
system 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions of Part  A of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project Implementing  Entity  prepares  interim unaudited  financial
reports  for the  Project  covering  the semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory
to the  Bank,  and  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the Project  Implementing  Entity
furnishes  such reports  to  the Bank  not later than  forty-five (45)  days  after the  end
of each  calendar semester.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  have  its
Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09
(b) of the General  Conditions.  Each  audit of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover
the  period  of  one  (1)  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial
Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be furnished  to the  Bank  not  later than six
(6)  months after the end  of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the Project and  to  be financed out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines, and  with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All consultants'  services  required  for the  Project and  to
be financed  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with  the  provisions of this Section.

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

I. 

2. 

- 14  -

3. 

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method  described  in  Sections 11 and  Ill of the
II,  Ill,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections 
Guidelines, as  the case  may  be.

B. 

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

The  following methods  of procurement  may  be  used  for goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services:  Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or
in
Commercial  Practices  which  have  been 
accordance with  paragraph  3.13 of the Procurement  Guidelines, as  set  forth in  the
Project Operational  Manual.

found  acceptable 

the  Bank 

to 

C. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

The  following  method  of procurement  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services:
Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or  Commercial  Practices
which have been  found acceptable  to the Bank  in accordance  with paragraph  3.13
of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as set  forth  in the Project Operational  Manual,

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of  Loan  Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
additional 
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to such instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in  paragraph 2 below.

-15-

2. 

The  following  table  specifies the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Category 

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage  of  Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of  Taxes)

(1) PFI  Loans 

69,825,000 

100%

(2) Front-end  Fee 

175,000 

payable 

pursuant 

to
Amount 
Section  2.03  of this  Agreement  in
accordance  with  Section  2.07  (b)  of
the  General  Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 

70,000,000 

100%

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

I. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of  Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  fourteen  million  United
States  Dollars ($14,000,000)  equivalent  may  be  made for  payments  made prior  to
this date but  on or  after February  28,  2013  for  Eligible Expenditures.

2. 

The Closing  Date is  December  31,  2015.

-16-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such repayable  amount  to be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal  Payment  Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

On each  September  15  and  March  15

Beginning  March  15,  2018 
September  15,  2042

through 

2%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall be  determined as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

first  Principal  Payment  Date, 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the 
Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as  of such  date in accordance  with paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a fraction, the  numerator of which  is
the original  Installment  Share specified  in the table  in paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph 4  of this Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

- 17-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months  prior  to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating
the  principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date following  the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices are  issued  on  or after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
to  any
withdrawals  made after  the  adoption  of such billing  system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule shall  apply  separately  to  the amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

4. 

5. 

- 18-

APPENDIX

Section  1. 

Definitions

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
"Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants", dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011.

the 

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Eligible  Beneficiaries"  means  micro,  small  and  medium  enterprises  as  defined
in  the  Borrower's  laws  and  regulations,  established  and  operating  within  the
territory  of the  Borrower,  which  meet  the eligibility  criteria  outlined  in  Section
I.E  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as 
in  the  Project
Operational  Manual.

further  set 

forth 

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  ESMF"  means 
the
framework  document  prepared  for  the  Project,  dated  September  30,  2012,
disclosed  in  country  on  September  30,  2012  and  on  the  IBRD  's  Infoshop  on
October  24,  2012,  setting  forth  the  mitigating,  monitoring  and  institutional
measures  to  be taken  during  the  implementation  and  operation  of the  Project  to
offset or  reduce adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts to  levels acceptable  to
the Bank, and  setting  forth policies and  procedures  for environmental  screening.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans", dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and

"Microfinance  Institutions"  or  *MFl" means  non-banks  microfinance  institutions
including  but  not 
limited  to  for-profit  companies,  not-for-profit  companies,
non-governmental  organizations,  to which a Sub-loan  has  been  made  or proposed
to  be  made  in  accordance  with  Section  I.F  of this  Agreement  and  the  Project
Operational  Manual,  for the  purposes of on-lending  to  Eligible Beneficiaries.

"Participating  Financial 
financial
institution,  established and  operating  within the  territory  of the  Borrower,  which
meets  the  eligibility  criteria  for  PFIs  set  forth  and  contained  in  the  Project
Operational  Manual.

Institutions"  or  "PFI"  means  a  regulated 

9. 

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

-19-

the  Project
"PFI  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  entered 
Implementing  Entity and  a  PFI  on  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Section  I.D.2
of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  Project  Operational  Manual  for the  purposes  of
financing a  PFI  Loan.

into  between 

"PFI  Loan"  means  a  loan  made,  in  accordance  with  criteria  set  forth  in  the
Project  Operational  Manual,  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  a  PFI  out  of
the  proceeds  of the  Loan  for the  purpose  of on-lending  as  Sub-loans  to  Eligible
Beneficiaries.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

"Project  Implementing  Unit"  or  "PIU"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's
unit  referred  to  in  Section  LA  of Schedule  2  of the  Project  Agreement  designated
by  the Project  Implementing  Entity  to  be responsible  for  Project  Implementation.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  Central  Bank  of  Jordan,  established
and  operating  under the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means  the Borrower's  Law  Number
23  of  the  year  1971  pursuant  to  which  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  is
established  and  operating.

"Project  Operational  Manual"  means  the  operational  manual  to  be adopted  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  describing  and  setting  forth  procedures  for
implementation  of the  Project  and  institutional  arrangements,  consistent  with  the
provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement  and  with  applicable
laws  and  regulations  and  including,  among  other  things,  the  fiduciary,  technical
and  operational  aspects  and  procedures  for  implementation  of  the  Project,
including  the  financial  management  procedures  (budgeting,  accounting  and
internal  control,  disbursement  and  flow  of  funds,  financial  reporting,  annual
reports,  internal  and  external  audit  arrangements  procedures  and  including  the
Project  specific  chart  of  accounts),  procurement  procedures,  monitoring  and
evaluation  arrangements,  other  fiduciary  and  administrative  arrangements,  the
selection  methods  and  eligibility  criteria  for  PFIs,  Eligible  Beneficiaries,  and
procedures,  transaction,  control,  and  clearance  processes  and  the  implementation
mechanisms  and  necessary  terms  for  PFI  Loans,  Sub-Loans  and  Sub-projects,
and  templates  of  PFI  Agreements,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time by  agreement  with  the  Bank.

- 20  -

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Sub-loan"  means  a  loan  made  or  proposed  to  be  made,  pursuant  to  the
provisions  of  a  Sub-loan  Agreement  and  in  accordance  with  the  criteria  and
procedures  set  forth  in  Section  L.F  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement  and  the
Project Operational  Manual,  by  a PFI  to  an Eligible  Beneficiary  or an  MFI out  of
the proceeds  of a PFI  Loan  for the purpose of financing a Sub-project.

"Sub-loan  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  entered  into  between  a PFI  and  an
Eligible  Beneficiary  or  an  MFI  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Section
1.F. I  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement  and  the Project  Operational  Manual  for  the
purpose  of financing a  Sub-loan.

"Sub-project"  means  economic  activities carried  out by an  Eligible Beneficiary  to
be  funded  from  a Sub-loan  in  accordance  with  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Project
Operational Manual.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  1.B  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
proceeds of the Loan  available to the Project Implementing  Entity.

