OCUMETS

LOAN NUMBER  8226-PE

Lois Agreement

(E asic Education  Project)

between

and

REPUBLIC  OF PERU

INTERIS ATION LL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2013

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreoment  dated 

-^^ -
, 2013  between  REPUBLIC  OF
PERU  ("Borower")  anc7 
) IN TERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVEOPMENT  i"Bank"  . The Bank and the Borrower  hereby agree  as follows:

1 

AWTICLE  I - GE"ERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  Peneral  Cond'tion:.  (as  defined 
cons#tuto  an  inte:,ral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unle$s  the  conext  req,iires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agrement  have  the meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or in
the 

ppendix  to I his Agruement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01.  The  3ank  agrees  to lend  o the Borrower,  on the terms and conditions  set forth  or
refer  ed  to  in  t lis  Agreement,  the  amount  of  twenty  five  million  Dollars
($25  000,000),  ai  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currncy  Conve  sioa  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agre  ment ("Lo.n":,  to  assist in financing the  project described  in  Schedule  1 to
this  agre ement ('Project').

2.02.  The  Borrower  rmiay  wit idraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Sc hedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for
purposes  of takii ng  -ny  action  required  or permitted  to be  taken  pursuant  to  this
Section  is  the  B  rrmwer's  Minister  of Economy  and  Finance  or the  Borrower's
Director of Indebtedness  and  Public Treasury  (DGETP), or any person  whom any
of th;m  !;hall  designite  in writing.

2.03.  The 

ront-end Fte payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to one  quarter of one
perc  nt  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall pay  the Front-end  Fee
not I ler than 60  da) s afthr the Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  interest  payiblo  by  ihe  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Re 'erence  1,ate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon a Cc nversion  of all or any portion  of the  principal  amount of
the  Loart,  the  inere;t payable  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such, amount  shall  be  d( termined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Artile  IV of  tie  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any
amoOnt of the Withdrawa  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when due  and such non-
pay  eni  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the

Borrow  r  shall  insi eac  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General Conditions.

2.05.  The PaXment Dates  are Mar.h  15  and  September  15  in each year.

2.06.  The  prncipal  amolint  of  he  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisi4ns  of Schedule  3 to  his Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

Thc  Borroy  er  nay  it  any time  request any of the  following Conversions
of the term!  of the  uoan  in order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  changi  of  the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Lc an,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  ( ii)  a  cha nge  of the  interest  rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or
any  portio:i  cf  tbe  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  frcm  a  Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or  vice versa; or (B)
f the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
all  or  any  )orl ion 
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  i Variable  Rate  based on  a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variabl a S )reac,  or vice versa; or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withlrawa  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Sp read to  t Variable  Rate based on a Fixed Spread;  and (iii)  the
setting  of limits on  the  Variable Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  por:ion  >f  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  :stablishment  of an  Interest Rate  Cap  or Interest Rate
Collar on th e Varia'le  Rate or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by the  3ank  shall  be considered  a "Conversion",  as defined
in  the  Gen eral  Cor ditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of irtic e IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines

ARTI CLE m - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  B>rrower  dec ares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project  and  the
Progran.  To  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  through
MINE)U,  with  t!ie  over ill  technical  coordination  of  UMC,  and  with  the
assistance  of:  (i)  UMC  fo:  Part  1 of the  Project;  (ii)  DEI  for  Part  1(b)  of the
Projec: joi:.tly witf  IUIC; (iii)  DIDE,  DIGEDD  and DIGEDIE  for Part 2  of the
Projec;  and  (iv)  JE'  for  Part  3  of  the  Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Artic e V  of t ,e  General  Conditions.

-2-

3.02.  Without  Iimitaticn  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
exceot  as  the  Borrower  i nd  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to  thi:  Agreerient.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Addtional Concitior  of Effectiveness  consists of the following,  namely, that
the  Cperational  M fan ual I as been adopted  by the Borrower, through MINEDU,  in
a m 

et  acceptable to  the Bank.

4.02.  Without  prejudic - to  the  provisions  of the General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  c ate nine ty  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this  Agreement,  but  in  no
case  later  than  thke  cighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan
which  expire  on Jul)  17,  2014.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  3orrower's  -epi esen tative  is  its  Minister of Economy  and  Finance, provided
that ihe  Borrowe  's  Dire<tor of Indebtedness  and Public Treasury may, by him or
herstlf, iepreseni  tho  Boi rower to  sign  amendments  to this  Agreement  which are
cons dered  of at  administrative  and  non-financial  nature.  The  signing  by  such
Director  of an ai mendme:  kt  shall  constitute  a representation  by  the  Borrower  that
any  ;uch  ament me it  is  considered  to  be  administrative  and  non-financial  in
natue.

5.02.  The  3orrower's  kdc ress  is:

Ministry of Ecor om y an(d Finance
Jr. Junin 319
Lima, Peru
Facsimile: 

151  ) 625-9921

5.03.  The  Bank's Add!ess  is:

International  Bank f 3r Riconstruction  and Development
181  HStreet, b.W
Wasiin&ton,  D.C. 2)433
Unitld States of Arr eric.

Cable aedress: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INT3AFRAD 
Wahington,  D.C. 

:!48423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)
-3-

1-202-477-6391

AGRE4D  at 
day and year  fir  t above  wri ten.

B 

,L 

,as  of  the

RE] IUBLIC OF PERU

Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RE, CONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The  Objective  of  tho  Project  is  to  improve  MINEDU's  capacity  to  evaluate

student learnig, instructional  pra  tice,  and school  leadership  in  Basic Education.

The Project consi:  ts of th(  following parts:

Part  1: Evalutina  Studerr  Learnii g

Provision  of 4upport  for tie implementation  of Eligible  Budget  Activities  supporting the
Program,  including,  intei  alPa: (0) the  scale  up  of  the  existing  second  grade  student
assessment  to  cover  additic nal  grades  and  subject  areas  in  Primary  Education  and
introduction  of  internationally  validated
Secondary  Iducation  szhcols; 
methodologies  for  measuring  child  development  outcomes  and  quality  of  services  in
Preschool  E(ucat:ion;  an ]  (c)  th:,  provision  of  support  for  the  Borrower's  continued
participation  n internatioaal  asse,;sments  managed  by  the OECD  and  UNESCO  in  order
to compare tr  mdE  in natic nal resuLts with  international benchmarks.

the 

(b) 

Part 2:  Evaluitini 

strucior al Pi actice  and School Leadership

Provision of support for 1 he  Implomentation  of the  Eligible  Budget  Activities  supporting
including,  inger  alia, activities  to  strengthen  MINEDU's  capacity  for
the  Program, 
monitoring  aid evaluating  tLe  quality of instructional  practice  at  the classroom  level,  as
system  for  selecting  and  training
well  as,  for  implementing  a  (ompetency-based 
candidates to  school man;  genent positions.

Part  3:  Stre  I gtheinin@  hNDU',  Implementation Capacit

including, 

Provision of  aupport for 1 he  mplomentation  of the Eligible  Budget  Activities,  supporting
in er  alia,  activities  to  strengthen  MINEDU's  capacity  to
the  Program 
improve  its  cducation  m magern  nt  and  monitoring  capacity  for  the  activities  supported
and  its  c per ition al  and  fiduciary  capacity  for  the  implementation  of the
by  the Progr 
Program,  inc.udiig  the  carry ing  out of independent  technical,  financial  and  procurement
reviews.

-5-.

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

m plemen  ati on A rrangements

Institutional Arrai  ge  nen  s

A. 

1 

2. 

B. 

1. 

The  Borrcwer,  t1rough  MINEDU,  shall  operate  and  maintain,  until  the
compldtion of the excec Ation  of the Project:

(a) 

(b) 

the  UEP,  w lhic;h sl  all  be  responsible  for  the  coordination,  supervision,
monitoring,  evaluaion  and  fiduciary  management  of  the  Project,  and
shall,  not  latur  tt an  ninety  days  after  the  Effective  Date,  employ
fidaciary sl aff in  ad equate  numbers  acceptable to the Bank;  and

the  UMC,  vhi ch  s iall  be  responsible  for  the technical  management  and
in
implemented  under 
coordinaticn 
coordinaticn  with DIGEDD, DIGEDE,  DEI  and DIDE.

:f  tie  activities 

the  Project, 

The  Bfrrower,  thr ough  MI NEDU,  shall  ensure  that  said  units  have  at  all  times
during  Project  imp em ental ion,  a  structure,  responsibilities,  the  necessary  budget
and  key  staff  aisigned  with  functions,  experience, 
responsibilities  and
qualifiations  accep Ptat le  to the Bank, as  described  in the Operational  Manual.

Imple  entation A rra ngeaents

The  Birrower, througi  M1NEDU,  shall:  (a)  at  least  once  a  year  during  Project
impler ientation  on or  aboui:  January 30  (and 30  days  after the  Effective  Date  for
the  fir. t ye ar of Pr :ject  im )lementation),  prepare  and furnish  to the  Bank a  plan
(the  P0A),  for  the  Project's  operation  during  the  following  twelve  months  of
Project  implement;  tio i,  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as the  Bank  shall  have
reasonible  reques:ed,  including  detailed  description  of  the  activities  to  be
execut.d  under each  cf the  Eligible Budget  Activities  specified  in  Schedule  4 to
this  Agretment;  and  (b)  1htereafter  carry  out  each  of  the  POAs  in  a  manner
satisfa-tory  to the .ank.

2. 

The Bbrrower, through MI ,EDU,  shall:

(a) 

have  all  Vie  Projec-t  procurement  records  and  documentation  for  each
I calendar  year  of the  Project  reviewed,  in  accordance  with  appropriate
procurement  prin<iples,  by  independent  reviewers  acceptable  to  the
Bank;

-6-

3. 

The Borrower, thi ou;h M  NEDU,  shall:

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

furnish to the Ban<  as  soon as  available,  but in any case not later than six
months  alter the  e nd  of each  such year, the  procurement  external  review
prepared  by  5 aid ii-dependent  reviewers,  of such  scope and  in such detail
as  the  Bai  k s hall I have reasonably requested; and

ftrnish to  tht  Bar k such  other  information  concerning  said  procurement
records  End  documentation  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
re asonabl y re ques:.

from 

in depend,mt 

not later 1 hat  six  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  select  and contract  an
(Independent  Verification
entity, 
the  Borrower 
Agency)  wilh  e) perience  and  qualifications 
in  the  education  sector
acceptabl 
tc  the  Bank,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of Section  III of this
Schedule  and  in  accordance  with  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  foi  tho  car ying  out  of technical  reviews  of agreed  results  during
Project  irliplvmentation,  particularly  focused  on  the  compliance with  the
DLIs  in  accorda nee  with  the  verification  protocols 
included  in  the
Operatioial  Manual;

ciuse  thc  Independent  Verification  Agency  to  carry  out  at  least  two
technical  reviews  during Project  implementation,  and  thereafter  prepare
a  report  of ,uch  scope  and  in  such  detail  s  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
re.quest;

firnish to th,- Ba ik as  soon  as  available,  the  reports  of the  Independent
Verificat ion  Agen.cy  referred to  in paragraph  (b)  above;  and

firnish  t 
the  B ink  such  other  information  concerning  said  technical
r,-views  anc  do,umentation  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
rasonab  y rique:t.

4. 

5. 

With  ut  .imitation tc  the  iprovisions  of Section  IV  of this Schedule, the Borrower,
through  MINED  J,  ;hall  refrain  from  presenting  the  second  Loan  withdrawal
appli  ation  in  reipeot  of Category  (1) until  a  report on  the  terms  referred  to  in
said.  ection  has been  presented to the Bank.

The Porrower, tlrou gh  M INEDU,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank by July
30  o:  each  year cf Projec  implementation,  a customized  disbursement report  (the
EBA  Report) on  terris  ac4ceptable  to the Bank (which  shall  include,  inter alia, the
spen fing  status  of th ie El 1A  as  of the  date  of presentation  of said  report),  and  in
acco  dance  with  tho  pr(visions  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  the
addi  ional instructions re  erred to  in Section IV.A.  1 of this Schedule.

-7-

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The Brower, thrc ugl. MINEDU,  shall ensure that the Eligible  Budget Activities
the  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the
shall  omply  wit] 
Operational  ManuE 1.

The  B  rrower  shal.  ensure  that the budget  code numbers  indicated  in Schedule 4
to  thio  Agreemeni  shall  conform  to  the  Borrower's  annual  budget  law.  The
Borro*er  and the  ] Bank  ag ee  that such  budget code  numbers  may  change  under
the  Borrower's  budgct  lavi  provided,  however,  that  there  is  no  change  in  the
corresoone ing  EBA  ai id  in  the  underlying activities  to be  carried  out  under such
EBA.

The  Borrower,  thr  ugh M:NEDU,  and the  Bank  may jointly  adjust, once  every
year, tie amounts  Lssi  ned per budget code to the EBAs  detailed in Schedule 4 to
this A  reement,  in a r.ann,r satisfactory  to the Bank.

t 

th:  provisions  of  Section  5.08 

(b)  of  the  General
Withozt  limitatioi 
and  p rioz  to  he  second  Loan  withdrawal  under  Category  (1)  (as
Cond'  ion, 
referred  tc  in  the  Oporational  Manual  and  additional  instructions  referred  to  in
IV .A. 1 of  his Sch  dule),  the Borrower, through MINEDU,  shall
Sectio 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

carry out f  mid-tei m review  with the  Bank on the  overall  progress  in the
execution  of  the  Project  and  on  the  accomplishment  of the  Project
objective,  including a review  of the existing  DLIs to determine  if there is
a need to  modify or replace the same;

nct  later th kan thirt y calendar  days  after  the  completion  of said  mid-term
review,  prepare  ard  furnished  to the  Bank a report  of such  scope  and in
such detai  as the I Bank  shall reasonably request,  and

inmediattly  t here ifter,  implement the  recommendations  set forth  in said
report, all  in v mar ner acceptable  to the Bank.

10. 

If, at  my  time,  th,  Bank  letermines  that  any  portion  of the  Loan  proceeds  was
used  for  i:ems  imp)roperly  procured  in  violation  of  Section  III  to  this  Schedule,
was  rot  ased  foi  Eligib .e  Expenditures  or,  in  case  of  the  Eligible  Budget
Activ ties  under tie Projec t, was not  supported by evidence  of actual  spending  by
the  Borrc wer  un 1er  saic  Eligible  Budget  Activities  and/or  by  evidence  of
satisf  ction  of  otier  crite  ia  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  or  in  the  Operational
Manul, the  Borrwe.  shall  promptly refund  any  such portion to the  Bank  as the
Bank ihall specify  by noti. :e to the Borrower.

-8-

C. 

Anti-'  orruption

The  $orrower,  tb rough  NAllNEDU,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in
accordance  with t he provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

D. 

Safequards  and Operati mal Manual

(a) 

The  Bor rower,  through  MINEDU, 
a  cordanc.e  with:

shall  carry  out  the  Project 

in

tteIPPF;and

() 

(i) 

a  manua,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  (the  Operational  Manual),
which  slall  include,  inter  alia: (i)  the  Performance  Indicators;
(i) 
the  )rocedures  for  the  carrying  out  the  monitoring  and
e valuiatioa  of  the  Project;  (iii)  the  verification  protocols  for
(including  detailed
corm  liance  and  monitoring  of  DLIs 
c escriptiin  of  the  evidence  required  for  considering  the  DLI
r iet);  (iN)  the  procurement  and  financial  requirements  of  the
I roj -ct;  i v)  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of each  Implementing
Enti .y; (vi)  the  IPPF;  and  (vii) the  Project  chart  of accounts  and
iiiteinal 
,ontrols,  reporting  procedures  and  the  format  of the
liaterim  t naudited  financial  reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.B.2
of tf is Sc hedule.

(b) 

In  case  cf confli<t  between  the terms  of the  Operational  Manual  and  this
Agreem  nt,  the  r rovisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail,  and except  as
the Borrower  anc  the Bank may otherwise  agree in writing, the Borrower
shall not abrogato, amend,  suspend, waive or otherwise  fail to enforce the
Operatio aal Man jal or any provision thereof.

Section II. 

Project loiitot ing Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Proj  ct Reports

The  onower, throt gh  IINEDU,  shall monitor  and  evaluate  the progress  of the
Proj(ct and  prep ire  Projvct  Reports  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of 1he  Genoral  Conditions  and on  the  basis  of the  performance  indicators,
the trm it and tie specfi,-ations  set forth  in the Operational  Manual.  Each Project
Report  saall  cov,r tie period  of one calendar  semester,  and shall  be furnished  to
the  anl  not  latUr  tian  60  calendar  days  after  the  end  of the  period  covered  by
each' such report

-9-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Finanial:V1anage  me mt,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Bprrower,  thcugh  MINEDU,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financ(al  managem ent syst.m  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.09
of the dencral  Con Jiti :ns.

Without  li.mitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  MINEDU  shall  p:epare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of the  Project
Reporth  not  later  t ian  60  lays  after  the  end  of each  calendar  semester,  interim
unaudiaed  financial  rport;  for  the  Project  covering  the  calendar  semester,  in
form  and  substancc sa:isfa(tory  to the Bank.

The  B  rrower,  throug;h  ?V INEDU,  shall  have  the  Financial  Statements  of the
Project  audited  in  ac-,ord.ance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the
Generil  Condition t.  Each  udit of the Financial  Statements  shall cover the period
of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower  or  such  other  period  to  be  agreed  with  the
Bank,  whcn  applikable.  Tie  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period
shall  be  furnished  to  the  Dank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end  of such
period.

Section  III. 

Procurem ent

GeneMhl

Goodi  and  Non-i.onsultiag  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
requirqd  for the  Pi oje,t and  to be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  pr  cured  in  accoidance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in
Section I cf the Procuieme  it Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Cons4ltaitts'  Serices. A  1 consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and to
be  fin  nced out of the proc eeds  of the Loan  shall  be  procured  in accordance  with
the  re  uirements  tet  Jorth  or referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guideines  and wi h te  pr wisions of this  Section.

Defin  tions.  The  cap itali .ed  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
partic  lar  procure  ner t me thods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contralcts  tefer to t  e corre,.ponding  method described  in  Sections II  and III of the
Procutement  Gui lelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as the cas,  ma i be.

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 

2. 

Partiula r Methds  of Procurement  of Goods and Non-consulting  Services

Inte6tational  Comretitire  Bidding. Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  bel6w,  goods  ;ind  non  consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the  b isis of  I ternational  Competitive Bidding procedures.

Other  Methods  >f Proci irement  of Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
follo*ing  methodls,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used
for  procurement  of  goc ds  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts
specified  in the P  oci irem  nt Plan:

P 

ourment  V'etl.od

a 

ational Cormpetitivt  Bidding
(b,Coping

c)  )irect Contr ictiig

Partlcular MethAls of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quaity-  and Cost-hasedI  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  bel0w,  consultnts'  ser vices  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basisI of Quality  v id  Cost  based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methbds,  other  than  Qiality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
proc#rement  of ionsultai its'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the 11ocurement  ?lan:

Prq$umment  Mfethod

(a)  Qua lity-Basd  elec  ion
(b)  $election  baed on tie Consultants'  Qualifications
in  le-sourc e  Select .on of consulting  firms
c 
ea!st  Cost Seletion
d 
election  un :er Fixe d  Budget
e 
(f) 
rocedures  et forth  in paragraphs  5.2  and  5.5  of the  Consultant  Guidelines
for  :he  Seletioa of  ndividual  Consultants

(g)  Single-Source  3roc:dures  for the Selection  of Individual Consultants

-ll-

D. 

Reviev4  by the Baik c f Pr )curement Decisions

The  Prpcurement  F [an  shal  set  forth those contracts  which shall be  subject to the
Bank'ยง  Prior Revie w.  All  )ther contracts  shall  be subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

Specia  Provisions

E. 

1. 

In  add Won  and  wil hou it  limitation  or  restriction  to  any  other provisions  set forth
in  this! Seotion  or  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  the  following  provisions  shall
govern  the  procuroment  o'  goods,  and  non-consulting  services  under  National
Compotiti  e Biddin g F roce lures:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

Foreign  b: ddt:rs  saall  not  be  required  to  be  locally  registered  as  a
condition  of participation in  the selection  process.

No  refere  ice  valt e  shall  be  required  for  publication  in  the  bidding
do :uments  or  used for the purpose  of bid evaluation.

Award  of  coritract;  shall  be  based  exclusively  on  price  and,  whenever
ap propriato,  hall  take  into  account  factors  that  can  be  quantified
objectively,  and  the, procedure  for  such  quantification  shall  be  disclosed
in the invil aticn to  bid.

Fereign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  submit  a  bid  under  NCB  without
restriction  anc  shal  not  be  subject to  any  unjustified  requirement  which
will  affect  their ability  to bid  such as,  but not  limited to, the  requirement
to  authenti zati  (lea afizar) their  bidding documents or any documentation
related  to  ucri  bi  ding  documents  with  either  Peruvian  Consulates,  the
Borrower'-  1  inistiy of Foreign  Affairs,  or any  Peruvian  authorities  as  a
pr-requisil e for bit ding.

(e) 

The  Borrc wer,  through  the UEP,  shall  use  standard  bidding  documents
and  standa rd ovaluation  formats,  all satisfactory  to the Bank.

2. 

In  addition  and  witho at  limlitation  or restriction  to  any  other  provisions  set  forth
in  thi  Section  or  t  eC )nsultant  Guidelines,  the  following  provisions  shall
gover  all employ ner t of  :onsultants:

Foreign  co)nsiltan:S  shall  not  be  required  to  be  locally  registered  as  a
ccndition  )f Fartic:pation in  the selection  process.

Foreign  consultan  s  shall  not  be  required  to  authenticate  (legalizar) any
documenttiori  rel ited to  their participation  in the  selection  process with

-12-

Peruvian  Co -sul  tes,  the Borrower's  Ministry  of Foreign  Affairs, or any
Peruvian  au :hori  ies  as  a  condition  of  participation  in  said  selection
process.

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

The  Boi rower, 
proposal,  an I sta idard  evaluation formats;  all satisfactory to the Bank.

through  the  UEP,  shall  use  standard  requests  for

Foreign  con iulta its,  either  individuals  or  firms,  shall  not be  required  to
pay  fees  :o te Poruvian  Consultants'  Association that are different  from
those reqiiir  d foi  Peruvian consultants.

No  indiv idu il  cc nsultant  hired  for  the  Project,  at  the  time  he  or she  is
carrying  out  his  or  her  contractual  obligations  as  consultant,  may  hold
civil  sern  ice office  or any other position  in  any agency  or instrumentality
cf the Bcirro wer,  nor  shall  such consultant  have  any right to  re-entry into
any  such  office  cr position upon  the  conclusion  of his  or  her  consulting
services.

Section  IV.  Withdra wa  of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  3orrower  may  with iraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  I  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
addi  ional  instructions (Lisbursement  Letter)  as  the  Bank shall  specify  by  notice
to  tie  Borrowe: 
(incluting  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for
Projqcts  dated May  2006,  as  revised from time  to time  by the Bank  and as made
applilabl e  to  thi,  A:greei ment  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expnditures as  et forth  in the table in  paragraph  2 below.

The following ta.  le  spec  fies the categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may be
finar ced  out  of the  pro .eeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amo  nts  of the  Loaz  to cach  Category,  and the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
finaced for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

A mount of the Loan 
Allocated 
expressed  in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures  to
be financed
(inclusive  of taxes)

25,000,000 

100%

Cy$ego  [I 

(1) 

Elig ble  Budget 
Actirities  under  :he
Pro  'ct
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

25,000,000

-13-

B. 

Withdlawal Cond itio ns;  W Vithdrawal Period

C. 

1. 

2. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions of Part A  of this  Section, no withdrawal  shall  be
made  from  the  LoE n Account  until the  Bank  has  received  payment  in full of the
Front-end Fee.

Arrangements  for DI  Compliance

the  Borrower,  through
Prior  to  any  Loaii  withdrawal  under  Category  (1), 
MINE  U,  shall si:bn  it to  the Bank,  in  a manner  acceptable  to the  Bank:  (a)  the
pertinept  EBA  Re por:,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Operational
Manua  ard  the  addi:ional  instructions  referred  to  in  Section  IV.A.I  of  this
the  Disbursement-Linked
Schedile;  and  (b)  evide1kce  of  compliance  with 
Indicatiors,  as  refirred  to  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  in  the  additional
instruciions referre I tc  in S-ction IV.  A. 1 of this  Schedule.

If the  ank  has  not  roceiN ed  evidence  of full  compliance  with  the  quantitative
DLIs  Ls #1, 4,  6 arid  8  listed  in  Schedule  5 to  this Agreement,  in respect  to
any  Lpan  withdrawal  uncer  Category  (1)  (as  referred  to  in  the  Operational
Manual  and  addidior.al  iistructions  referred  to  in  Section  IV.A.1  of  this
Schedole),  then:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

lisburse 

the  Loan  amount  of  the  corresponding
the  Bank  shall 
withdrawal.  altributable  to  each  DLI,  in  proportion  to  the  respective
degree  of  exicution  of  each  DLI  and  in  accordance  with  additional
instruction s referred to in Section  IV.A. I of this Schedule;

the  Borrower, thro igh  MINEDU,  shall prepare  and furnish to the Bank a
sa:isfactorY  time-t ound  action  plan  to  achieve  such  DLI  or  DLIs  in  a
manner sa isfictor r to the Bank; and

is  the  3ank 

is  satisfied  that  said  action  plan  has  been
as  soon 
irplemeni ed,  the  Bank  shall  authorize  the  withdrawal  of  unwithdrawn
Loan  anc ant  by  which  the  corresponding  Loan  withdrawal  had  been
reduced  in  the  wit]:drawal  period  following the  date  of implementation  of
said  actioa  plan,  all  as  further  detailed  in  the  additional  instructions
referred tc  in  3ectin  IV.A.1  of this  Schedule.

3. 

If the  Bank  has  rot  received  evidence  of  full  compliance  with  the  qualitative
DLIs  (DL1 #2, 3, 5, and  7) listed  in Schedule  5 to this  Agreement, with respect  to
any  ILoan  disburs :mcnt  uader  Category  (1)  (as  referred  to  in  the  Operational
Manu4l  end  addtional  nstructions  referred  to  in  Section  IV.A.1  of  this
Schedule),  then:

-14-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Bank  shall  wAithhold  the  corresponding  withdrawal  attributable  to
each DLI;

the  Borrower,  thrmugh  MINEDU,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to the Bank a
satisfactoy  time-ound  action  plan,  to  achieve  such  DLI  in  a  manner
setisfactoi y to the Bank;  and

when  the Baik  is satisfied  that  said  action  plan  has  been  implemented,
the  Bank  ;ha 1 authorize the withdrawal of unwithdrawn  Loan amount by
which  the  c  rres!ponding  Loan  withdrawal  had  been  reduced  in  the
withdrawil  reriod  following  the  date  of implementation  of said  action
plan,  all  is  fiirthr  detailed  in  the  additional  instructions  referred  to  in
S,ction  I.A.1  of this Schedule.

4. 

In thd  event that th e Bank  has not approved a full withdrawal  by the  Borrower of
the L  an  proceed  urder Category (1) (as  referred  to in the additional  instructions
referrpd  ta  in  Section  IVA.1  of this  Schedule),  the  Bank  may,  by  notice to  the
Borrower,  cancel  the  con esponding  amount of the  Loan  at  the time  of after the
last  I4oan  withdr  wa  (as  referred  to  in  the  additional  instructions  referred  to  in
Section  i.A.1  of thi3 ScYedule).

5. 

The 

losing Date  is lvlarch  31,2018.

-15-

SCHEDULE 3

Anortization  Schedule

The following  tabli  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  tOtal  prir cipal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date ("Intalmer  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have been  fully
withdrawn  as  of ti e  first  I 'rincipal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
thLe  B  rrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
Loan  repayable  b.y 
determined  by  the  3ar k by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as  of the
first  P  '  cipal  Payinet  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payme  t  Date,  sucl  re iaya >le  amount to be adjusted, as  necessary,  to  deduct any.
.o  in  p;ragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
amounts  referred 
Conversion applies,

Prine pal Paymei-t I ate 

On each March  15  and  Seplember  15

Begin  ing September  15,  2)17
throug  September  15.  201 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

20%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of tie Loan have  not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment  Date, the  princip; Ll amount  of the Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Pincipal Payi ner t Da  e  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the extnt that  amy  proceeds  of the Loan  have been  withdrawn  as  of
the  Borrower  shall  repay  the
the  first  PriiicipE1  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn. Loan Talance  as of such  date  in  accordance  with paragraph  I
of this Sch  adu le.

Any  amot nt  with'rawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Pi incipal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
inL  ar  ounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount of each  su..h withdrawal  by  a fraction, the  numerator of which  is
the  origin  1 In stall  nent Share  specified  in the table in paragraph  I of this
Schedule  f or  aid  Principal Payment Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  d.-ncmintor  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  S] hares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after such
date,  such amount:  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  rferred t)  in  paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversioa  a pplie

-16-

3. 

(a) 

A mounts  of 1 he L Dan  withdrawn  within two calendar  months prior to any
Principal  Pal  neu t Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely of calculating  the
principal  amount!  payable  on  any  Principal Payment  Date,  be treated  as
withdraw a 
.nd  )utstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  ti e  d  te  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Pay  en t Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date foll owilg th i  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithsianding  he  provisions of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  ire  issuc d on or after the respective  Principal Payment Date,  the
provisions  of  s ,ch 
sub-paragraph  shall  no 
to  any
VithdraA als mad.  after the adoption of such billing system.

longer  apply 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  proi isions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of  1l or any portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Apprved  Currenicy,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  delermirned  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
curre  cy  of denc miration  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion  by either:  (i) the
exchnge:  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payaple  by  the  Bark  uider  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conyersion;  or (ii)  iF the Bank  so determines  in accordance  with  the Conversion
Guid!linies, the e ich  nge rate  component  of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in more than one Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of thi;  Scl edule  shall  apply  separately to  the amount denominated
in  ech  Loan  Curre acy,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such amour t.

-17-

SCHEDULE  4
Eligible Budget  Activities
(Expressed  in Nuevos Soles)

nUUUL3L.  iNationai  sumple evaluutioub 
5000253.  Participation  in  international 2,482,309 
I_I_I_I_1_ 
J  .on 
A 
a,  UJ,U 

15003145.  Assessment  of  prevrimarv L- 
students and  quality of services 

assessments 

Lj-)UyG,VVV 

Subtotal 

A;7".%P 

jAi,AA'1,-9 

%P_ 

I 

I_ 

___,_ 

_ 

1

1,232,818 

2,595,874 

161,546 

6,472,547

1

on L 

an 

1n  Ann 

ann 

'IA  An

oU,U,,

l 

iii 

(5,O,U 

09I7,21U 

1 93,0,14i,i01  a34,4

5003114.  School  Principal  Evaluation 6,000,000 

20,960,000 

20,710,000 

19,480,000  67,150,000

System 

_

5003146. 

Monitoring 
opportunities  in the classroom

Subtotal 

learning 1,560,800 

1,716,880 

1,888,568 

2,077,425 

7,243,673

7,560,800 

22,676,880 

22,598,568 

21,557,425,  74,393,673

5000276.  Program management 
Subtotal 

1,977,865 

2,328,870 

2,068,870 

2,328,870 

1,977,865 

2,328,870 

2,068,870 

2,328,870 

8704,475
8704,475

-18-I

SCHEDULE  5

Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs)

-t---Nmbrofadiinl 

rde 

t  h  Piay  dcain  n  Scn  aEducation  levels 

which  sound national assessments  are administered in at least two subjects"areas
Annual Results of national  student assessments at the  Primary Education and  Secondary 
Education levels reported at the national, regional  and school level 

I 

Annual  Results of national studies of classroom  instructional practice  at the Primary 
jEducation and Secondary Education  levels reported  at thie nationat level
Number of school management positions staffed through the school principal evaluation 

r 

2 

I_

Reported  tor  Keportea tor  Reporned  for  Kepored  or
the grades
the grades 
the grades 
the grades 
assessed the
assessed the  assessed th 
assessed  the 
reiousya  prviu  yerevious year
year 
Renorted  Renorted  Reported  Reported'

~~~previous 

~ 

q nn 

1 A nn  t1 Afn

Yearly student assessment for selected  grades of Primary Education and Secondary
Education levels validated  in a pilot study
Number of surveys carried out to evaluate  child development  progress and the  quality of 
public Preschool Education services
Borrower's (through MINEDU)  participation  in international assessments of student 
learning outcomes 
Number of national  studies carried out to monitor instructional practice  in Primary 
Education  or Secondary Education levels,  as the  case may be

0

I

rtcao 
in TERCE 

n 

PiSa
in_PISA

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

-19-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  DeQnit  ons

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

"Anti-Corraption  Gu delb ies"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Comb#ting  Fraud  End  Corr  ption  in Projects  Financed  by IBRD  Loans and  IDA
Credits anc. Grants",  dated  )ctober  15,  2006 and  revised  in January 2011.

"Basic  Education"  mean:  Pre-primary  Education,  Primary  Education  and
Secondary Education.

"Cate 
this A 

ry"  means  a ca ttegc ryset forth  in  the table  in Section  IV  of Schedule 2 to
ement.

"Cons  Itar t  Guide line s"  n  eans  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consults  under  IB'D  ,oans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borro*ers"  dated J ant ary.:011.

"DEI"  means  Dirccci6n ce  Educaci6n Inicial, the  Borrower's  Directorate  for
Preschool  7ducaticin  withii  MINEDU.

"DID  "  means  D ireccidn de  Investigaci6n y  DocumentaciOn Educativa, the
Borro*er'; Directorato  for Research  and Documentation  within MINEDU.

"DIG  DD"  meant  D recc f6n  General de  Desarrollo Docente, the  Borrower's
Generl  Direction  or Teac ier Development within MINEDU.

"DIG  DIE"  mear.s  Dire-,cin  General  de  Desarrollo  de  las  Instituciones
Educa ivas, the Be rrower'.  General  Directorate  for School Development.

"Disbrsement-Linked  Indicator"  or "DLI"  means  any of the  indicators  set  forth
in Schedule  5  of th is ILgrec ment.

"EBA 
to this,Agieement.

pReort"  means any of the reports  referred to  in Section I.B.5  of Schedule 2

"Eligib>e  Budget  Activitie ;" or "EBA"  means  the  activities  within  the  Program
.od -s  set forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement  in  respect  of
under  the  budget 
whichl  a  set  of  se ectbd  e igible  expenditures  (including  goods,  non-consulting
servic Is  and  consialtants'  services),  which  are  not  permanent  in  nature,will  be
incurr Al  y  the  Borrower  under  the  Project  (and  thus  said  set  of expenditures
in  the  General
constitute  a  subt et  of  ihe  Eligible  Expenditures  defined 
Condi-ions).

-20-

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

"Gen4ral  Conditi)ns'  m<ans  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  Ger era [ Coi  ditions for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

"Independent  Ver ific ition  Agency"  means  the entity  referred  to  in Section  I.B.3
(a)  of Schedule  2  :o this  A greement.

"IndiPncus  Peoples'  Pl inning  Framework  or  IPPF"  means  the  Borrower's
framwork  dated  December  4,  2012  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and
available  to  the  public  o  MINEDU's  website  on  December  4,  2012,  detailing
meas(Ores  to  mitigate any  idverse impact on  indigenous  peoples  as  a result of any
activiy  carried  oaut  unde:  the  Project  and  to  ensure  that they  benefit  from  the
Proje-.t,  including, p  ocedures  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  the
perti  ent  indigenous  peoples  development  plans,  referred to  in  Section  I.D.(a)(i)
of Sc iedIle 2 to t his Agri  ement.

DU"  mens  Mir isterio  de  Educaci6n,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of

"" 
Education.

"Nue  os Soles" nearLs th<  Borrower's  official currency.

"OECD"  means  Oigani mtion  for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development
(OECD),  an  intei-goernimental  organization  of  industrialized  countries  created
pursuant  a Convf:,nti)n  signed  December  of  1960,  which  purpose  is to  promote
policies  ':o  improve  the  -conomic  and  social  well-being  of  people  around  the
world.

"Op  rational  Minunl"  rieans  the  Borrower's  manual  referred  to  in  Section
I.D.(  i) of Schediile  2 to  ihis  Agreement,  as  such manual  may  be amended  from
time  to  time  w th  the  Bank's  prior  approval,  and  such  term  includes  any
scheoules  to the  )pe ratioaal Manual.

"PELA"  means,  te  B,rrower's  Education  Program  for  Student  Learning
(Prograrza Edut.ati vo  I ogros  de  Aprendizaje)  approved  by  the  Borrower's
Ministry  of Fintnct  through  the  Official  Letter  No.  131-2012-MEF/DGPP  on
June  6,  2012.

"PerPormance  In  licE tors" means  the Project monitoring and  evaluation  indicators
set fbrth in the 0 per ition A1  Manual.

for  International  Student  Assesment,  a  system  of
"PISA"  means  Prc gran 
internati:nal  ass.srr ents that  focuses,  inter alia, on  15-year-old's  capabilities  in
reading  literacy,  mg then Latics  literacy,  and  science  literacy,  coordinated  by  the
OE:D.

-21-.

22. 

23. 

24. 

25.. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"POA'J  means  Pla1 Opera ivo Anual, the  Borrower's  annual  plan  referred  to  in
Section I.B.1  of Sc ied ale 2 to this Agreement.

"Pre-pximary  Educaticn"  n  eans the  education  provided to children  from  3 years
up  to 6 years of agc  pr.or u: ider the Borrower's  public  school system.

"Primary  Educatic n"  me& is  grades  1 to  6  of  the  Borrower's  public  primary
school$ system.

"Procurement  Guit elines"  neans the "Guidelines:  Procurement of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Scrvicos under IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits" dated  January
2011.

"Procuremnt  Plan"  mean 
the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated INovember  2 8, 2 012  and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.16  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  :.24 of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the same  shall be
updatel  from time  to t [me  in  accordance with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Progrm"  means  the  Boi rower's  sub-program  under  the  umbrella  of  PELA,
supporting the Elig ible Buiget Activities.

"Secoidary  Educa ion"  me ans  grades  I to  5 of the Borrower's  public  secondary
school  system.

"SPE"I means  Secreta la c e  Planificaci6n Educativa, the  Borrower's  Education
Plannitg Secretariat.

Terce - Estudio  Regional  Comparativo y  Explicativo  de
"TER9E"  means 
Evaluqci6n, the  third i egio tal  comparative study for the evaluation  of third grade
and  sith  grade  of  Primarq  Education  in  literacy, math  and  science,  coordinated
by UNESCO's reg ionl of ice  of Education.

"UEP'  or  means  Unid add  Ejecuci6n delProyecto, the unit created  pursuant the
Miniswria.  Reso1h tion No.  0257-2012  of July  11,  2012  referred  to  in  Section
I.A.1(,)  of  Schedule  2 to tl is Agreement,  and any  succesor thereof.

"UIMq"  means 
Measurement  Un.tre-"erre,l 
Agreement.

r_Aid7d  re Medicidn  de  la  Calidad, the  Borrower's  Quality
in  Section  I.A.1(b)  of  Schedule  2  to  this

to 

"UNE3CO"  meas  "Un  ted  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural
Organization",  a !peciali2ed  agency  of the United  Nations  (UN),  which purpose
is  to  4ontribute  tc  peace  ad  security  by  promoting  international  collaboration
through  education  sciencE,  and  culture  in  order  to further  universal  respect  for

-22-

justice,  the  rule  >f  law,  and  human  rights  along  with  fundamental  freedoms
proc4imed  in the  UN  cha  ter.

-23-

