OFFOCAL
WOCUMENTS

SCF-PPCR LOAN  NUMBER  TF017101
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER  TF017143
CREDIT NUMBER  549XLC

Strategic  Climate  Fund
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience

Loan Agreement

(Disaster Vulnerability Reduction  Project)

between

SAINT LUCIA

and

INTERNATIONAL-DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
acting as an Implementing  Entity of the Pilot Program  for
Climate Resilience  under  the Strategic  Climate Fund

Dated 

11f 

,Y 2014

SCF-PPCR LOAN  NUMBER  TF017101
SCF-PPCR GRANT NUMBER  TF017143
CREDIT NUMBER  5493-LC

STRATEGIC  CLIMATE FUND  LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

into
between  SAINT  LUCIA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION  ("World. Bank"),  acting  not  in  its  individual  capacity  but solely  in  its
capacity  as an implementing entity of the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience ("PPCR")
under the  Strategic Climate Fund ("SCF").

,  2014,  entered 

, 

WHEREAS:  (A)  the  Borrower  and  the  International  Development  Association,
intend  to  enter  into  a  financing  agreement  (Financing  Agreement)  for  the  purpose  of
providing  a  credit  in  an  amount  of  twenty  six  million  six  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing  Rights (SDR 26,600,000)  (the Financing)  to  the Borrower  to  assist in financing
Parts A,  B, D and E  of the Project  on the terms  and conditions  set forth in the Financing
Agreement.

(B) 

the  Borrower  and  the International  Development Association,  acting  as
an  implementing  entity  of the  Pilot  Program  for  Climate  Resilience  (Pilot  Program  for
Climate Resilience  (PPCR))  under the  Strategic  Climate Fund,  intend to enter  into a grant
agreement  (PPCR  Grant  Agreement). for the  purpose  of making  a  grant in  an amount  of
twelve  million  United  States  Dollars  ($12,000,000)  (PPCR  Grant)  to  the  Borrower  to
assist  in  financing Parts  A, B and E of the Project on the terms  and conditions  set forth  in
the PPCR Grant Agreement;  and

NOW  THEREFORE,  the Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree as  follows:

Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)
constitute  an  integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the Standard  Conditions  or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.

the  cpitalized 

terms  used 

Article  II
Loan

2.01. 

The  World  Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set
forth  or referred  to in  this Agreement,  the amount of fifteen  million  United  States
Dollars  ($ 15,000,000  ("Loan"), to  assist  in  financing  Parts A  and C of the project
described  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Loan  is  funded  out  of the  resources  made  available  to the  World Bank as  an
implementing  entity of the  SCF.  In accordance  with  Section 3.02  of the Standard
Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement),  the  World  Bank's
payment  obligations  in connection  with this  Agreement  are  limited  to the  amount of
funds  made  available  to  it  from  the  SCF  trust  fund,  and  the  Borrower's  right  to
withdraw the  Loan proceeds  is subject to  the availability of such funds.

2.04.  The  Service  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  on  the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance

shall be  equal to one-tenth  of one percent (1/10  of 1%) per annum.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates are May  15  and November  15  in each  year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

repayment  schedule  set forth in  Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

2.07.  The Payment Currency  is  USD.

Article III
The  Project

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Recipient  shall  carry  out  Parts  A,  B,  D  and E of the Project through  the
Ministry  of Finance,  Economic  Affairs  and  Social  Security  (MoF),  and  cause
Part  C  of the Project to  be carried  out by Saint  Lucia Development  Bank (SLDB)
(Project  Implementing  Entity),  all  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  II
the  Subsidiary
of  the  Standard  Conditions, 
Agreement.

the  Project  Agreement  and 

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and the World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower
shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

-2-

Article  IV
Remedies  of the World Bank

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event of Suspension  consists  of the following,  namely,  that  the
Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  in  the
opinion  of the  World  Bank,  the  ability  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to
perform  any of its  obligations under the Project Agreement.

Article V
Effectiveness;  Termination

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

The  Financing  Agreement  and  the  PPCR  Grant  Agreement  have  been
executed  and  delivered  and  all  conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness
of said Financing  Agreement  and PPCR  Grant  Agreement  or to the right
of the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  under  any  said  Agreement  (other
than the effectiveness  of this Agreement)  have been  fulfilled.

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower
and the Project Implementing  Entity.

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that,  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or ratified  by  the Borrower  and
is  legally
the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  said  Subsidiary  Agreement 
binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance
with its terms.

5.03.  Without  prejudice to the provisions  of the  Standard  Conditions,  the Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement,  but in no  case  later than eighteen  (18)  months after  the Association's
approval  of the Loan.

Article  VI
Borrower's Representative;  Addresses

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  referred  to  in  Section  10.02  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is the Minister responsible  for finance.

-3-

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of the  Standard Conditions
is:

6.03. 

The  World  Bank's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is:

Ministry of Finance,  Economic  Affairs,
Planning and  Social  Security
3rd Floor  Financial  Center
Bridge  Street
Castries,  Saint Lucia

Facsimile:
1-758-452-6700

International  Development  Association
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States of America

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INDEVAS 
Washington,  D.C.

248423  (MCI) 

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at 

/ 

rk4F  us 

1s1,A., 

as  of the  day  and  year first

above  written.

SAINT  LUCIA

By

Auth 

epresentative

iName:  Sni 

l

4-0  4t~ U-S  A-j.

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
acting  as  an  Implementing  Entity  of  the  Pilot  Program  for
Climate Resilience under the Strategic  Climate Fund

BY

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

4e4iein.

Title: 

[_ 

_ 

_ 

_

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  reduce  vulnerability  to  natural  hazards  and

climate change  impacts  in the Borrower's territory.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A:  Risk Reduction and Adaptation  Measures

1. 

to 

interventions  and  climate  adaptation  measures 

Carrying  out  of selected  structural  and  non-structural  flood  and  landslide  risk
improve  the
reduction, 
Borrower's  resilience  against  current  and  future  climate  shocks,  including
reconstruction  of selected critical  public  infrastructure  that was  damaged  from  an
event  of Emergency,  which  consists  of, inter alia:  (a)  reinforcement  of flood
control  infrastructure;  (b)  climate  resilience  rehabilitation  and  retrofitting  of
improvement,  slope
including  drainage 
road  sections, 
selected  damaged 
and  climate  resilient
stabilization  and  selected  road  bridges;  (c)  retrofitting 
rehabilitation  of  selected  priority  emergency  shelters;  (d)  climate  resilient
rehabilitation  of selected  deteriorating  water  supply  infrastructure;  (e)  retrofitting
and  rehabilitation  of selected  schools  and  health  centers;  and (f) relevant national
plans,  policies  and  strategies,  such  as an  integrated  watershed  management  plan,
and  climate  change  public  awareness  and  education  strategy,  all  through  the
provision  of works, technical  advisory  services,  operating  costs  and  acquisition
of goods.

2. 

Carrying  out studies,  including:  (a) development  of operational  and  maintenance
plans  (including  a  bridge  maintenance  plan);  (b)  risk  assessment  to  support
engineering  design  options, and  final  detailed  design  solutions;  and (c)  integrated
hazard  and  climate  analyses  to  inform  Project  designs,  all  through  the  provision
of technical  advisory  services and  acquisition  of goods.

Part B:  Technical Assistance  for  Improved  Assessment and  Application  of Disaster and
Climate Risk Information  in Decision Making

Building  institutional  capacity  for  open  systems  or  platforms  for  creating,
sharing,  analyzing  and  using  disaster  risk  and  climate  change  data  and
information  for improved  decision  making  and  engineering  for risk reduction  and
climate  change  adaptation,  including:  (a)  creation  of  a  high  resolution  digital
topographical  and  bathymetric  model  for  the  Recipient;  (b)  sea  level  rise
modeling and  coastal flood  and  erosion  risk mapping;  (c)  design and deployment
of  meteorological,  hydrological,  and  sea  level  rise  monitoring  networks;  (d)
(e)
deployment  of  an  environmental  health 
strengthening  regional  capacity  to  promote  safe  and  uniform  building  standards

surveillance 

system; 

and 

-6-

and  harmonize  geospatial  data standards  in the  Eastern Caribbean  sub-region,  all
through the provision  of technical  advisory  services,  operating  costs, training  and
acquisition  of goods.

Part C:  Climate  Adaptation Financing  Facility

Establishing  a  pilot financing  mechanism  to promote  increased  climate  resilience
under  a  climate  adaptation  financing  facility  (Climate  Adaptation  Financing
Facility  or  CAFF),  including  the  provision  of retail  concessional  loans  (Sub-
loans)  through  the  SLDB  to  eligible  households  and private  firms  or  businesses
to  build
(Eligible  Beneficiaries), 
resilience  of  assets  and  livelihoods  intended  to  reduce  risks  associated  with
catastrophic  hydro-meteorological  shocks (Climate  Adaptation  Subprojects).

to  fimance  climate  adaptation  investments 

Part D:  Contingent  Emergency Response

Carrying  out  of Emergency  Recovery  and  Reconstruction  Subprojects  under  an
agreed  action  plan  of activities  (Agreed  Action  Plan  of Activities)  designed  as  a
mechanism  to implement the  Recipient's response to an Emergency.

Part E:  Project Management  and Implementation  Support

the 

institutional 

for  Project  management 

and
capacity 
Strengthening 
implementation,  including:  (a)  staffing  the  National  Development  Unit  (NDU)
and  Project  Coordination  Unit  (PCU);  (b) building  the  technical  capacity  of said
NDU,  PCU  and the SDED  within the  MoSDEST;  (c)  training  of NDU,  PCU  and
SDED  staff,  and  strengthening 
the  respective  capacity  for  management,
supervision,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  specific  Project  activities;  and  (d)
carrying  out  technical  and  Project  audits,  all  through  the  provision  of technical
advisory  services,  training, operating  costs and  acquisition  of goods.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section 

.

Institutional and Other Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

Project Coordination  Committee

2. 

Ministry of Finance  (MoF);  NDU

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  Coordination  Committee  is
maintained  at all  times  during  the  implementation  of the  Project,  with  a
composition,  mandate,  and  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
World  Bank.

limitation 

to  sub-paragraph 

the
Without 
Recipient  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  Coordination  Committee  will  be
responsible  for providing  policy  guidance  to ensure  prompt  and  efficient
implementation  of the  Project,  including,  inter alia, reviewing  progress
made towards achieving  the Project's objective.

immediately  above, 

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  at  all  times  during  the  implementation  of
the  Project,  the  NDU  within  the  MoF,  with  functions,  staffing  and
resources satisfactory  to the World Bank.

The NDU  will be  responsible  for monitoring  and  evaluation  of activities
for Parts  A,  B,  D  and  E  of the  Project, in  accordance  with the provisions
of this Agreement  and  the Project  Operations Manual.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  at  all  times  during  the  implementation  of
the  Project,  the  PCU  within  the  MoF,  with  functions,  staffing  and
resources satisfactory  to the  World Bank.

Without limitation  to the provisions  of Section  I.A.2  of this  Schedule,  the
PCU  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  administration  of  overall
planning,  coordination,  the  technical,  fiduciary  (i.e.,  procurement  and
financial  management  in  coordination  with  the  Ministry  of  Finance),
environmental  and  social  safeguards  compliance,  coordination,  reporting
and  communication  of the  activities  under  Parts  A,  B,  D  and  E  of the
Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this  Agreement  and  the
Project Operations  Manual.

3. 

Project Coordination Unit

-8-

4. 

SDED;  MoSDEST

Without  limitation to  the  provisions  of Section  I.A.2  and  2  of this  Schedule,  for
the purpose  of ensuring  the prompt and  efficient  communication  of Parts  A, B,  C
and  E  of the Project, the Borrower shall  ensure the NDU  and the PCU shall  carry
out  said  Parts  A,  B,  D  and  E  of the  Project  in  close  coordination  with  SDED
within  MoSDEST.  To  this  end,  SDED,  as  the  focal  point  for  the  Borrower's
climate  change  issues,  shall  be'responsible  for reporting  and  communicating  all
activities  financed  through  the  SCF  Loan,  and  the PPCR  Grant (i.e.,  Parts  A,  B,
D  and  E  of the Project),  respectively,  in  accordance  with the Project  Operations
Manual.

Subsidiary  Agreement

For purposes  of carrying  out  Part  C  of the  Project,  the Borrower,  through  MoF,
shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  SLDB  (the  Subsidiary  Agreement)  under
terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  World  Bank
including,  inter alia, the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this
Agreement.

The Borrower,  through MoF,  shall exercise  its rights  and  carry  out its  obligations
under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  manner as  to  protect the  interests  of the
Borrower  and the World  Bank and to  accomplish the purposes of the  SCF Loan.

Except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate, terminate, waive  or fail  to enforce  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or
any  provision thereof.

Project Operations  Manual; CAFF Manual

The  Borrower  shall,  carry  out Parts  A,  B,  D  and  E  of the  Project,  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  containing  detailed
arrangements  and  procedures  for  Parts  A,  B,  D  and  E  of  the  Project:  (a)
institutional  coordination  and  day-to-day  execution  of Parts  A,  B,  D  and E  of the
Project;  (b)  Project  budgeting,  disbursement  and  financial  management;  (c)
procurement;  (d)  environmental  and  social  safeguard  guidelines;  (e)  monitoring,
evaluation,  reporting  and  communication;  and  (f)  such  other  administrative,
financial,  technical  and  organizational  arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be
required  for Parts  A,  B, D  and E  of the Project.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the Project Implementing  Entity  to carry  out  Part  C  of
the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  CAFF  Manual  containing
detailed  arrangements  and  procedures  for  Part  C  of the  Project:  (a)  institutional
coordination  and  day-to-day  execution  of  Part  C  of the  Project;  (b)  Project
(d)
budgeting,  disbursement  and 

financial  management; 

(c)  procurement; 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

-9-

(f) 

environmental  and  social  safeguard  guidelines;  (e)  monitoring,  evaluation,
the  eligibility  criteria  for  the  Eligible
reporting  and  communication; 
Beneficiaries  to  draw  Sub-loans  from  the  CAFF;  (g)  the  eligibility  criteria  and
detailed  procedures  for  the  selection  and  approval  of  Climate  Adaptation
Subprojects  to  be  financed  out  of the  CAFF;  and  (h)  such  other  administrative,
financial,  technical  and  organizational  arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be
required  for Part C of the Project.

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  abrogate,  waive  or  fail  to enforce  any  provision
of the  Project  Operations  Manual  or  CAFF  Manual  without  the  prior  written
agreement  of the  World  Bank;  provided,  however,  that  in  case  of any  conflict
between  the  arrangements  and  procedures  set  out  in  the  Project  Operations
the
Manual  or  the  CAFF  Manual  and  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement, 
provisions of this Agreement  shall prevail.

D. 

Action  Plans  for  Emergency  Recovery  and  Reconstruction  Subprojects
under Part D of the Project

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Part  D  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  LD of Schedule 2  to the Financing Agreement.

E. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is carried  out  in  accordance  with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Environmental and Social  Safeguards

F. 

1 .

The  Borrower shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
Environmental  Management  Framework  (EMF),  the  Environmental  Assessment
(EA),  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (RPF),  respectively,  including  the
guidelines,  rules and  procedures  defined in said  EMF, EA,  and RPF.  To this  end,
the Borrower  shall, specifically  take the following  actions  in  a manner acceptable
to the  World Bank:

(a) 

if an  environmental  management  plan  or  similar  safeguard  instrument
would  be  required" on  the  basis  of the  EMF:  (i)  such  environmental
management  plan  or  similar  safeguard  instrument  shall  be  prepared  in
accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  EMF,  disclosed  locally  and
furnished  to  the  World  Bank  for  approval;  and  (ii)  if  applicable,  the
pertinent  Project  activities  shall  be  carried  out in  accordance  with  such
instrument  as
environmental  management  plan  or  similar  safeguard 
approved  by the World Bank;  and

- 10  -

(b) 

if  a  resettlement  action  plan  would  be  required  on  the  basis  of the
Resettlement  Policy Framework:  (i) said  resettlement action  plan shall  be
prepared  in accordance  with the requirements  of the Resettlement  Policy
Framework,  disclosed  locally  and  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  for
approval;  and  (ii)  no  works  in  respect  of  such  Project  activities  shall
commence  until:  (A)  all  measures  required  to  be  taken  under  said
resettlement action  plan  have been  taken  in  accordance  with the terms of
said  plan  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank;  and  (B)  the
Borrower  has  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  a  report  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank,  on  the  status  of compliance
with the requirements  of said resettlement  action plan.

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  all  measures  required  for  carrying  out  the
Environmental  Assessment,  any  environmental  management  plan  or  similar
safeguard  instrument,  and  any  resettlement  action  plan  are  taken  in  a  timely
manner.

The  Borrower  shall  include  in  the Project  Reports  referred  to  in  Section  II.A  of
this  Schedule  adequate  information  on  the  implementation  of the  EMF, the  EA,
the  RPF,  any  environmental  management  plan  or  similar  safeguard  instrument,
and any resettlement  action plan, giving  details  of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

measures  taken  in  furtherance  of  the  EMF,  the  EA,  the  RPF,  any
environmental  management  plan  or  similar  safeguard  instrument,  and
any resettlement action  plan;

conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to  interfere  with  the
smooth implementation of the EMF,  the EA, the RPF, any environmental
management  plan or  similar  safeguard  instrument,  and  any resettlement
action plan;  and

to  address  such
remedial  measures  taken  or  required  to  be  taken 
the  continued  efficient  and  effective
conditions  and 
implementation  of  the  EMF,  the  EA,  the  RPF,  any  environmental
management  plan  or  similar  safeguard  instrument,  and  any  resettlement
action plan.

to  ensure 

4. 

Specific Environmental Covenant  for Parts A.2  and B of the Project

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  terms  of reference  for  any  consultancy  in
respect  of any  Project  activity  under  Parts  A.2  and  B  of the  Project  shall  be
satisfactory to  the  World  Bank following  its  review thereof and,  to that end,  such
terms  of  reference  shall  duly  incorporate  the  requirements  of the  World  Bank
Safeguard  Policies  then in  force,  as  applied to the  advice  conveyed  through  such
technical assistance.

- 11 -

Section  H. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports; Completion  Report

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

The Borrower  shall  monitor  and evaluate  the progress of the Project and  prepare
Project  Reports  in accordance  with the provisions  of Section  2.06  of the Standard
Conditions  and  on the  basis  of the  indicators  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank  in
respect  of Parts  A,  B,  D and  E of the  Project.  Each  Project Report shall  cover the
period  of six (6)  calendar  months,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the  World Bank  not
later than forty five (45)  days  after the end  of the  period  covered by such  report.

Without  limitation  to the  provisions  of Section  2.06  of the  Standard  Conditions,
the Borrower  shall: (a) on or about the date  thirty (30)  months  after the Effective
Date,  submit  to  the  World  Bank  a  mid-term  report,  in  such  detail  as  the  World
Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  documenting  progress  achieved  in  the  carrying
out  of the  Project  during  the  period  preceding  the  date  of the  mid-term  report,
taking  into  account  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant
to  Section  II.A. 1 of this  Schedule,  and  setting  out the  measures recommended  to
ensure  the  efficient  carrying  out of Parts  A,  B,  D  and  E  of the  Project  and  the
achievement  of the  objective  thereof during  the period  following  such  date;  and
(b)  review  with  the  World  Bank  the  mid-term  report,  on  or  about  the  date  one
month  after  its  submission  to  the  World  Bank,  and  thereafter  take  all  measures
the
required 
achievement  of its  objectives,  based  on  the conclusions  and  recommendations  of
the mid-term report and  the World Bank's  views on the  matter.

implementation  of  the  Project  and 

the  efficient 

to  ensure 

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  the  Completion  Report  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  2.06  of the  Standard  Conditions.  The  Completion  Report
shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the
Closing Date.

Financial Management;  Financial Reports;  Audits

The  Borrower shall  ensure  that a  financial  management  system  is  maintained  in
accordance  with the provisions of Section  2.07  of the Standard  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section, the Borrower  shall
ensure  that  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  are  prepared  and
furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later  than  forty five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of
each  calendar quarter,  covering  the quarter,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory to
the World Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  for  the  Project  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  (b)  of the  Standard  Conditions.
Each  such  audit of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one fiscal

- 12  -

year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period
shall  be  furnished  to  the  World  Bank  not  later  than  six months  after the  end  of
such  period.

Section  HI. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting services required  for the Project and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  SCF  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with  the requirements  set forth
or referred  to in Section  I of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the provisions
of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and to
be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the SCF  Loan shall  be procured  in  accordance
with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of  the
Consultant  Guidelines,  and with the  provisions of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  World  Bank  of
particular  contracts,  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II
and  III  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of the
Consultant  Guidelines, as the case may be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph  2
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded on the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.
The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be
used  for goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for those  contracts  specified
in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive  Bidding;  (b) Shopping;  (c)
Direct  Contracting;  and  (d)  Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement
Methods  or  Commercial  Practices  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to  the
World  Bank.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph  2
below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.

- 13  -

2. 

D. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  following
Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services. 
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those  assignments which  are specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality  Based  Selection;  (b) Selection  under  a  Fixed
Budget;  (c)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications;  (d) Least-Cost
(e)  Well-established  Private  Sector  Procurement  Methods  or
Selection; 
Commercial  Practices  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to  the World  Bank;  (f)
Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  for
the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants;  (g)  Single  Source  Procedures  for
selection  of  firms;  and  (b)  Single  Source  Procedures  for  the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants set  forth in paragraph 5.6  of the Consultant  Guidelines.

Review  by the Association of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan shall  set  forth those  contracts which  shall  be  subject to the
World  Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall be  subject  to Post Review
by the World Bank.

All  terms of reference  for consultants'  services,  regardless  of contract value, shall
be  subject to the World  Bank's prior review.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of:  (a)  Article  III of the Standard  Conditions;  (b) this  Section;  and  (c)
such  additional  instructions  as  the  World  Bank  may  specify  by  notice  to  the
Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"
dated  May  2006,  as revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  World  Bank  and  as  made
applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set forth  in the table  in paragraph 2  below.

The  following  table specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocations  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each Category:

-14-

Amount of  the Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

to be  Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

10,000,000 

22%

(2)  Works,  goods, non- 

5,000,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Works,  goods,  non- 
consulting  services,
consultants'  services,
Training and Operating
Costs for Parts A,  B, and
E of the Project

consulting services,  and
consultants'  services  for
Climate Adaptation
Subprojects  under Part C
of the  Project

(3)  Goods,  Works,  non- 
consulting services,
consultants'  services and
Emergency  Operating
Costs for Emergency
Recovery  and
Reconstruction
Subprojects under Part  D
of the Project

TOTAL AMOUNT 

15,000,000

For the purpose  of the table set forth  immediately  above:

(a) 

(b) 

the term  "Operating  Costs"  means the  incremental  expenses  incurred  on account
including  office  equipment  and  supplies,  vehicle
of  Project  management, 
insurance  costs,  office
operation  and  maintenance, 
administration  costs,  bank  charges  under  the designated  account,  utilities,  travel
and per diem, excluding the salaries of the  Borrower's  civil service;

communication  and 

the  term  "Emergency  Operating  Costs"  means  the incremental  expenses  incurred
by  the Recipient  for early  recovery  efforts  arising as  a  result of the  impact  of an
Emergency  including,  inter alia, additional  transportation  costs  (i.e. gasoline  and
use  of other  transportation),  increased  electricity  bills for the  public  sector,  staff
overtime,  and rental  of light and heavy  machinery  (i.e.  generators  and  equipment
for removal  of debris);  and

0

- 15  -

(c) 

B. 

1. 

the term  "Training"  means  the  cost  associated  with  the  training  and  workshops
than
the  World  Bank,  for  reasonable  expenditures 
approved  by 
expenditures  for  consultants'  services),  including:  (i) travel,  room, board  and per
diem  expenditures  incurred  by  trainers  and  trainees  in  connection  with  their
training;  (ii)  course  fees;  (iii)  training  facility  rentals;  and  (iv)  training  material
preparation,  acquisition,  reproduction  and  distribution  expenses.

(other 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for payments  made prior to the  date  of this Agreement;  or

under  Category  (2)  in  respect  of Climate  Adaptation  Subprojects  unless
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has:  (i) prepared  and  adopted  the  CAFF
Manual,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank;  and  (ii)
implemented  the  institutional  development  plan  for  the  CAFF,  in  a
manner acceptable  to the World  Bank.

2. 

The Closing Date  is December  31,  2019.

-16-

SCHEDULE 3

Repayment  Schedule

Date Payment Due 

Principal  Amount  of the Loan
repayable
(expressed  as  a  percentage)

On each  May  15  and November  15:
commencing November  15,  2024 to and including 
May  15,  2034
commencing November  15,  2034 to and including 
May  15,  2054

%

2%

-17-

SCHEDULE  4

Terms and Conditions  of the Subsidiary Agreement  relating to Part C of the Project

The Subsidiary  Agreement  shall  contain,  inter alia, the following provisions:

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The obligation  of the Borrower:

to  promptly  disburse  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  the  proceeds  of the
Loan  to  finance  the  carrying  out  of Part  C  of the  Project  with  due  diligence,  in
accordance  with the provisions  of this Agreement;

to take  or permit to be taken all actions to enable  the Project Implementing  Entity
to  comply  with  its  obligations  referred  to  in  Sections  C  and  D  of this  Schedule;
and

to  ensure  that  Part  C  of  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  and  the pertinent  provisions of this
Agreement.

The  right  of  the  Borrower  to  take  remedial  actions  against  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  case  the Project Implementing  Entity  shall  have  failed to
comply  with  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  (which
actions  shall  previously  be  agreed  with  the  World  Bank),  and  the  pertinent
provisions  of this Agreement.

The obligation  of the Project Implementing  Entity:

to  service  the repayment  of the subsidiary  loan  in  accordance  with  the repayment
schedule,  all  under  terms  and  conditions  similar  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of
the Loan  procured  by the  Borrower pursuant  to this Agreement,  and  specifically
set forth  under a table  in the  Subsidiary  Agreement.

to  carry  out  Part  C  of the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this
Agreement,  the  Project  Agreement,  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  and  the  CAFF
Manual.

to  carry  out  the  fiduciary  (i.e.,  financial  management  and  procurement)  and
monitoring  and  evaluation  aspects  of  Part  C  of  the  Project,  including  the
obligation to:  (i)  ensure that  all  goods,  works  and  services  to  be  financed  out of
the Loan  are  procured  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this Agreement;  (ii)
ensure  that adequate  policies and procedures  are  maintained  to enable  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate,  in  accordance  with  indicators
acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  the  progress  of Part  C  of the  Project  and  the
achievement  of  its  objective;  and  (iii)  (A)  maintain  a  financial  management

- 18  -

system  and  prepare  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
accounting  standards  acceptable to  the Association,  both  in a manner adequate  to
reflect  the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  related  to  the  Project;  and  (B)
at  the  Borrower's  and/or  the  World  Bank's  request,  have  such  financial
statements  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Borrower  and  the
World Bank, and promptly furnish the statements  so  audited to the  World Bank.

to  comply  with  the  provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  in  connection
with Part C  of the Project.

not  to  assign,  amend,  terminate,  abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  or  any  provision  of  the  Subsidiary  Agreement,  unless
previously agreed  by the Borrower  and the  World Bank.

to take  or  permit  to  be  taken  all  actions  to  enable  the  Borrower  to  comply  with
the obligations  referred  to in  this Agreement.

The following  specific  obligation of the Project Implementing  Entity:

With  respect  to the  Sub-loans  to be  provided  to the  Eligible  Beneficiaries  by the
Project  Implementing  Entity  under  Part  C  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall
cause  the  Project Implementing  Entity to ensure that:

4. 

5. 

6. 

D. 

1. 

(a) 

(b) 

each  proposal  for  a  Climate  Adaptation  Subproject  is  evaluated  and
approved,  in  accordance  with  the criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the
Project Operations  Manual;

is  executed  with  each
a  lending  agreement  (Sub-loan  Agreement) 
Eligible  Beneficiary,  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the
World Bank, which  shall include  those  set forth  in  the Project Operations
Manual  including, inter alia: (i) the  obligation  of the Eligible  Beneficiary
to:  (A)  service  the  repayment  of the  pertinent  Sub-loan  in  accordance
with  an agreed  repayment  schedule;  (B)  comply with the  provision of the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  in  connection  with  a  Climate  Adaptation
Subproject;  (C)  carry  out the  pertinent  Climate  Adaptation  Subproject  in
a  manner  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  and  operate  and  maintain  said
Climate  Adaptation  Subproject, with  due  diligence  and efficiency,  and  in
conformity  with  appropriate 
financial,
economic,  environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices;  and  (D)
take  or  permit  to  be  taken  all  actions  to  enable  the  Borrower  and  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  to  comply  with  their  respective  obligations
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  in  the  Project  Agreement  and/or  in  the
the  Project
Subsidiary  Agreement,  as 
the
Implementing  Entity's  right  to 

take  remedial  actions  against 

the  case  may  be;  and  (ii) 

administrative, 

technical, 

- 19  -

respective  Eligible Beneficiary  in  case  it shall  have failed  to comply  with
any of its obligations  under the  Sub-loan  Agreement;  and

(c) 

upon  approval  of  a  Climate  Adaptation  Subproject,  and  prior  to  the
carrying  out  of said  Climate  Adaptation  Subproject:  (i)  carry  out  any
Climate  Adaptation  Subproject  in  accordance  with  the  CAFF  Manual,
and  if  required,  prepare  any  environmental  safeguard  instrument  in
accordance  the  EMF,  and  avoid  and  minimize  environmental  issues,  all
in  a  form  and  substance  acceptable  to  the  Association;  and  (ii)  ensure
that no proposed  Climate  Adaptation  Subproject shall involve  acquisition
of land  or  involuntary resettlement.

2. 

The Borrower  shall  require  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  exercise  its rights
under  each  Sub-loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interest  of the
to
Borrower, 
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  World
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate  or waive  any Sub-loan  Agreement  or any of its provisions.

the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and 

the  World  Bank  and 

- 20 -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by IBRD  Loans  and IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January 2011.

"CAFF  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.C.2  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in the table in  Section IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Climate  Adaptation  Financing  Facility"  or  "CAFF" means  a  revolving  facility
managed  and  operated  by  the Project  Implementing  Entity  to  provide  financing
out  of  the  proceeds  of the  SCF-PPCR  Loan  to  the  Eligible  Beneficiaries  for
financing  Adaptation  Climate  Subprojects.

"Climate  Adaptation  Subproject"  means  any  climate  adaptation  investment
referred to  in Part C  of the Project.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of  the
Project  had  or  would  have  their:  (i)  standard  of living adversely  affected;  or  (ii)
in  any  house,  land  (including  premises,
access  to,  or  right,  title,  interest 
agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset  acquired  or
(iii)  business,  occupation,  work  or
possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or 
place  of residence  or  habitat  adversely affected;  and  "Displaced  Persons"  means,
collectively,  all such Displaced  Persons.

"Eligible Beneficiary"  means  an  approved  private  sector  business  or  firm,  which
is  registered  pursuant  to the  laws  of the Borrower,  or  an  individual  living  within
the territory of the Borrower, that is  approved  by the Project  Implementing  Entity
on the  basis  of the eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  the CAFF Manual,  to  participate
through  the  CAFF  as  a  recipient  of a  Sub-loan  for the purpose  of carrying  out a
Climate  Adaptation  Subproject.

"Emergency"  means:  (a)  for  the  purpose  of Parts  A  and  B  of the  Project,  the
natural  disaster  that  occurred  within  the  Borrower's  territory  on  December  24
and  25,  2013,  for  which  the  Borrower  issued  the  activation  the  National
Emergency  Management  Plan  on  December  26,  2014;  and (b)  for  the purpose  of

-21-

Part  D  of  the  Project,  the  occurrence  of  a  natural  disaster  or  an  event  of
emergency  within  the  Borrower's  territory  for  which  the  Borrower  has  issued  a
Natural  Disaster  Declaration  or  activation  of  the  National  Emergency
Management  Plan.

"Environmental  Management  Framework"  or  "EMF"  means  the  Borrower's
framework,  acceptable  to the  World  Bank,  dated December  2013,  and  disclosed
in-country  on  January  14,  2014,  and  in the  World  Bank's  InfoShop  on  January
for  environmental  screening  and
14,  2014, 
procedures/actions  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  environmental
assessments  and  management  plans  under  the  Project,  and  such  term  includes  all
schedules  and  annexes  to the  Environmental Management  Framework.

the  modalities 

setting 

forth 

"Environmental  Assessment"  or  "EA"  means  the  Borrower's  report  for  the
Project  dated December  2013,  and disclosed  in-country on January  14,  2014, and
in  the  World  Bank's  Infoshop  on  January  14,  2014,  describing  the  set  of
avoidance,  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring, and institutional  measures  to be
taken  under  any  activity  for  rehabilitation  or  construction  to  avoid,  mitigate,
offset,  or reduce  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  to  acceptable  levels,
or to enhance  positive  impacts.

"Financing  Agreement"  means the financing agreement  referred  in paragraph  (A)
of the  preamble  to  this  Agreement,  as  such  agreement  may  be  amended  from
time  to  time.  "Financing  Agreement"  includes  all  appendices,  schedules  and
agreements  supplemental to the Financing Agreement.

"MoF"  means the Borrower's Ministry  of Finance, or any  successor thereto.

"MoSDEST"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Sustainable  Development,
Energy, Science and Technology,  or any  successor  thereto.

"National  Development  Unit"  or  "NDU"  means  the  unit  within  the  MoF,  and
referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"National  Emergency  Management  Plan"  means  a  plan  issued  in  an  event  of
Emergency  by  the  Recipient's  National  Emergency  Management  Organization
(NEMO)  pursuant to  the Disaster  Management  Act (Act  No. 30  of 2006),  of the
laws  of the Borrower.

"NEMO"  means  the  Borrower's  National  Emergency  Management  Office
established  and  operating  pursuant to  the  Disaster Management  Act (Act  No.  30
of 2006)  of the  laws  of the Borrower,  or any  successor thereto.

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

- 22  -

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

"PPCR  Grant"  means the  grant referred  to paragraph  (B)  of the preamble  to  this
Agreement.

"PPCR  Grant  Agreement"  means  the  grant  agreement  referred  to  in  paragraph
(B)  of the  preamble  to this Agreement,  as  such  grant  agreement  may be  amended
from  time  to  time.  "PPCR  Grant  Agreement"  includes  all  appendices,  schedules
and  agreements  supplemental  to the PPCR Grant  Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  April  15,  2014,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same shall  be
updated  from time  to time in  accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Coordination  Committee"  means  the  committee  referred  to  in  Section
I.A.1  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Project  Coordination  Unit"  or  "PCU"  means  a  coordination  unit  within  the
MoF,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.3  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  or  any
successor thereto.

"Project  Implementing Entity"  means Saint Lucia Development  Bank.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means  the Saint Lucia Development
Bank Act (Law  No.  12  of 2008),  of the  laws  of the Borrower.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the Borrower's  manual  referred  to in  Section
I.C.1  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,
acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  dated  December  2013,  and  disclosed  in-country
on  January  14,  2014,  and  in  the  World  Bank's  InfoShop  on  March  3,  2014,
setting  forth  the  modalities  for  resettlement  and  compensation  of  Dislocated
Persons,  including  guidelines  for  the  preparation  of  the  resettlement  plans,  all
under  the  Project,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the
agreement of the World Bank.

"Saint  Lucia  Development  Bank"  or  "SLDB"  means  the  bank  established  and
operating  pursuant  to  the  Saint  Lucia  Development  Bank  Act  (Law  No.  12  of
2008)  as  amended,  of  the  laws  of the  Borrower  and  includes  any  successors
thereto.

- 23  -

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

"SDED"  means  Sustainable  Development  and  Environment  Division  within  the
Borrower's  MoSDEST,  or any successor thereto.

"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Loans  Made  by  the
World Bank Out of the Climate  Investment Funds,  dated  February  18,  2014.

"Sub-loan"  means  any  loan made  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  to  an  Eligible
Beneficiary  to carry out a  Climate Adaptation  Subproject.

"Sub-loan  Agreement"  means  any of the agreements  referred to  in  Section D.1(b)
of Schedule 4  to this Agreement.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B.1  of
Schedule 2  to this  Agreement  pursuant to which  the  Borrower  shall  on-lend  part
of the proceeds  of the Loan to  the Project Implementing Entity for the  purpose  of
carrying out Part C  of the Project.

"World  Bank  Safeguard  Policies"  means  the  World  Bank's  operational  policies
and  procedures  set  forth  in the  Bank's  Operational  manual  under  OP/BPs  4.01,
4.04,4.09,  4.10, 4.11,  4.36, 4.37,  7.50  and 7.60 as  said manual  is published under
www.WorldBank.orilopmanual.

- 24  -

