OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

SCF/PPCR LOAN  NUMBER  TFfY486-MZ

Strategic  Climate Fund
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
Loan Agreement

(Cities and  Climate Change Project)

REPUBLIC  OF MOZAMBIQUE

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION

(acting as an  implementing  entity  of the
Strategic  Climate Fund-Pilot  Program  for Climate  Resilience)

Dated 

ovc 

8 

, 2014

SCF-PPCR LOAN  NUMBER  TF16486-MZ

STRATEGIC CLIMATE  FUND  LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  Vern6r 
OF  MOZAMBIQUE 

,  2014,  entered  into  between:
INTERNATIONAL
REPUBLIC 
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  ("World  Bank"),  acting  not in its  individual capacity
but  solely  in  its  capacity  as  an  implementing  entity  of  the  Strategic  Climate  Fund
("SCF").

("Borrower") 

and 

The Borrower and the World Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

Article  I
Standard Conditions;  Definitions

1.01. 

The  Standard  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part  of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the  Standard Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this  Agreement.

Article II
Loan

2.01. 

The  World  Bank  agrees  to lend  to  the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  six  million  five  hundred
thousand  United  States  Dollars  (USD  6,500,000)  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing
the  project described  in  Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03.  The Loan  is funded  out  of the  resources  made  available to the  World  Bank  as  an
In  accordance  with  Section  3.02  of the
implementing  entity  of the  SCF-PPCR. 
Standard  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement),  the  World
Bank's  payment  obligations  in  connection  with  this  Agreement  are  limited  to  the
amount  of funds  made  available  to  it  from  the  SCF-PPCR  trust  fund,  and  the
Borrower's  right to  withdraw the Loan proceeds  is subject  to the availability  of such
funds.

2.04.  The  Service  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  on the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance

shall  be equal  to one tenth of one percent  (1/10  of 1%).

2.05. 

The Payment Dates are  January  15  and July  15  in  each year.

-2-

Article  III
The  Project

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

repayment  schedule set  forth  in  Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

2.07. 

The Payment Currency  is  Dollar.

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the Borrower  shall  carry  out the  Project in  accordance  with the provisions  of
Article  II  of the Standard  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower
shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

Article  IV
Additional  Remedies

4.01. 

The Additional  Event of Suspension consists  of the  following, 
namely,  that  the
World  Bank  has  determined  that  at  any  time  before  the  Closing  Date,  the
Borrower  or  any  Eligible  Municipality  has  failed  to  apply  sound  environmental
or  social  standards  or  practices 
in  their  management  or  carrying  out  of
infrastructure  investments  in such  cities  or territories.

Article  V
Effectiveness;  Termination

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  SCF-PPRC  Grant  Agreement  has  been  signed  and  delivered,  all
conditions  precedent  to  its  effectiveness  or  the  right  of the  Borrower  to
make  withdrawals  under 
it 
(other  than 
the  effectiveness  of  this
Agreement)  have  been  fulfilled.

The  Project  Implementation  Manual  shall  have  been  updated  and  adopted
by  the Borrower  in  a manner  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement.

-3-

Article  VI
Borrower's Representative;  Addresses

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  referred  to  in  Section  10.02  of  the  Standard
Conditions  is  its minister at the time  responsible  for planning  and development.

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  referred  to  in  Section  10.01  of the  Standard Conditions

is:

Ministry  of Planning and  Development
Av. Ahmed  S.  Toure,  21,  4h  floor
Maputo, Republic  of Mozambique

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

MOBANCO 
Maputo

(258)  21  492-268 

(258)  21  492-625

6.03. 

The  World  Bank's  address  referred  to 
Conditions  is:

in  Section  10.01  of  the  Standard

International  Development Association
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INDEVAS 
Washington, D.C. 

248423  (MCI)  or 
64145  (MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

(A 2x  4M 

first above  written.

1, 

as  of the  day  and  year

-4-

REPUBLIC  OF  MOZAMBIQUE

By

By

Authdi 

epresentative

Title: 

at b 

_c  I

INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
(acting  as  an  implementing  entity  of the  Strategic
Climate  Fund-Pilot  Program  for Climate  Resilience)

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  strengthen  municipal  capacity  for  sustainable
urban  infrastructure  provision  and  environmental  management  which  enhance  resiliency
to  climate  related risks.

The  Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part A:  Strenathening  the municipal  sector

Increase  municipal  capacity  to  sustainably  plan,  manage  and  finance  climate
resilient  urban  development,  including  through  the  strengthening  of  the  Borrower's
improve  sustainable
institutions  underpinning 
decentralized  financing  and  management  of the  urban environment  and  infrastructure,  by
means  of:

its  municipal 

in  order 

system 

to 

(i) 

Local level  support for improved  municipal  governance

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Municipal  Performance  Grants:  Support  Eligible  Municipalities  through
the  financing  of  Sub-Projects,  by  providing  Municipal  Performance
Grants.

Improved  Urban  Planning  and Land  Use Management:  Support including
through:  (A)  the  carrying  out  of climate  vulnerability  assessments,  basic
spatial  planning  studies  and  development  of  urban  land  management
instruments  in  all Eligible  Municipalities  as  well  as urban  environmental
those  Eligible
and 
Municipalities  vulnerable to  climate  related  flooding and  erosion; (B)  the
development  and  dissemination  of methodologies  for urban planning and
land  use  and  environmental  management;  and  (C)  the  carrying  out  of
training  sessions  for municipal  staff and technicians.

surface  water  management 

instruments 

in 

Enhancement  of Municipal  Financial  Sustainability:  Support  to  improve
including
financial  management  and  enhance  municipal 
through  the:  (A)  development  and  dissemination  of methodologies  for
(B)  carrying  out  of training  sessions  in  revenue
revenue  administration; 
staff;
financial  management 
administration 
(C)  provision  of  advisory  services  and  equipment  to  strengthen  the
institutional  capacity  of the  Eligible  Municipalities;  and (D)  development
and implementation  of financial  and management  systems.

for  municipal 

revenues, 

and 

-6-

(ii) 

National  level  support  for improved  municipal  governance

Strengthen  key  national  institutions regulating  and  supporting  the municipal
system,  by means of:

Capacity  Strengthening  of MAE  and  MF  to  monitor  the  performance  of
the  municipalities  and  develop 
and
municipal  policies  and  systems,  including  through  the  development  and
implementation  of  the  national  policy  and  regulatory  framework  for
municipal  governance.

intergovernmental 

improved 

Strengthening  of  ANAMM 
its  member
municipalities,  including  through  capacity  building  support  activities  and
policy  and  regulatory  advocacy  on  municipal  and  intergovernmental
issues.

to  provide 

services 

to 

Establishment  and  operation  of  a  PIU  in  DNDA 
to  support  the
coordination  and  management  of  the  Part  A  of the  Project,  including
through  the  provision  of technical  assistance,  training,  audits,  goods  and
operating  costs.

Part  B:  Enhancing  resilience  of strategic  Eligible  Municipalities  in coastal  cities

Enhancement  of selected  municipalities,  including  those  in Beira, Nacala  and
Maputo  metropolitan  area, for sustainable  resilience  to  weather-related  environmental
threats, as  follows:

Identification  of  key  investment  priorities  in  selected  municipalities  to
strengthen  resilience  to  climate  related  floods  and  erosion  through  the
carrying  out  of:  (a)  an  assessment  of  current  needs,  including  the
selection  of the  municipalities  to  be  targeted,  and  projecting  trends  and
scenarios  taking  into  account  climate  change  considerations;  and  (b)
training  sessions  for  the  technical  teams  of  AIAS  on  climate  change
impacts  on  sanitation.

Strengthening  resilience  of the  municipality  of Beira  to  control  floods,
including  through  the:  (a)  development  of  a  comprehensive  study  on
integrated  urban  water  management; 
(b)  design  and  supervision  of
drainage  rehabilitation  works;  (c)  carrying  out  of drainage  rehabilitation
works,  including  the  relining  of the  primary  channel  (central)  of Beira's
drainage  system;  (d) carrying  out  of rehabilitation  works  affected  by  the
works  referred  to  in  (c)  of this  sub-paragraph,  including  fences,  latrines,
verandas,  side-walks  as  well  as  provision  of  resettlement  houses
provided  with  basic  infrastructure;  (e)  provision  of advisory  services  and

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(i) 

(ii) 

-7-

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

to  strengthen 
equipment 
Autonomous  Sanitation  Service;  and 
infrastructure  support.

the 

institutional  capacity  of 

Beira's
(f)  carrying  out  of  green

Strengthening  the  resilience  of  the  municipality  of  Nacala  to  control
including  through  the:  (a)  design  and  supervision  of erosion
erosion, 
associated
rehabilitation  works, 
control  and  drainage 
environmental  and social  support;  (b)  carrying  out of erosion  control  and
drainage  rehabilitation  works,  including  those  related  to  the  three  (3)
primary  channels  of  Nacala's  drainage  system;  and  (c)  provision  of
advisory  services  and  equipment  to  strengthen  the  institutional  capacity
for  managing  drainage  infrastructure  and
of  Nacala  municipality 
erosion  control.

including 

Strengthening  the  resilience  of municipalities  in the  Maputo  metropolitan
area  to  control  floods  including  through  the  development  of  a  master
drainage  and  sanitation plan  for the  area.

the
Establishment  and  operation  of  the  PIU  in  AIAS 
coordination  and  management  of Part  B of the  Project  including through
the  provision of technical  assistance,  audits,  goods and  operating  costs.

to  support 

the 

in  Beira; 

campaigns; 

implementation; 

(c)  developing 

Improved  management  and  development  of natural  drainage,  including:
(b)  preparing  green
(a)  mapping  natural  drainage  areas 
for  selected  natural  drainage  areas,
infrastructure  detail  designs 
sustainable
supervision  of 
maintenance  and  management  models;  (d)  carrying  out  community
scoping  studies  of  green
outreach 
infrastructure  assets  in five  other municipal  areas which  shall  serve  as for
preparing  guidelines  for  the  Ministry  of  State  Administration  and
municipalities  for  the  integration  of  green  infrastructure  management
(f)  developing  and
into  municipal  planning  and  development; 
implementing  knowledge  sharing  and  dissemination  activities  for  the
Borrower's  Eligible  Municipalities;  and  (g)  implementation  of  green
infrastructure  investments.

(e)  undertaking 

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and  Other Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

Project Implementation  Units  (PIUs)

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  Project  Implementation  Units  (PIUs)  within
DNDA  and  AIAS,  respectively,  throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,
with  functions  and resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  as follows:

(a) 

(i) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of paragraph  (a)  above,  the
PIU  for  Part  A  of  the  Project  shall  have  responsibility  for  the
day-to-day  coordination 
and  management  of  Part  A  of  the
Project, 
including  overall  responsibility  for,  inter  alia:  (a)
ensuring  timely  implementation  of  the  Project  in  accordance
with the  PIM;  (b)  preparing  Annual  Work  Plans  and Budgets  and
annual  Procurement  Plans;  (c)  overseeing  activities  under  its
responsibility;  (d)  managing  Project  finances;  (e)  maintaining
consolidated  Project  accounts;  (f)  ensuring  adherence  to  the
ESMF  and  RPF  in  the  implementation  of  the  Project;  and  (g)
developing  and  maintaining  a  system  of monitoring  the  Project
key  performance  indicators.

(ii) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of paragraph  (a)  above,  the
PIU  for  Part  A  of the  Project  shall  be  headed  by  a  coordinator,
who  shall  be  assisted  by  a 
including  a
procurement  officer  and  a  financial  management  officer,  and
staff with experience  and qualifications  satisfactory  to  the  World
Bank.

technical 

team, 

(b) 

(i) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of paragraph  (a)  above,  the
PIU  shall  have  responsibility  for  the  day-to-day  coordination
and  management  of  Part  B  of  the  Project,  including  overall
responsibility  for,  inter alia: (a)  ensuring  timely  implementation
of the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  PIM;  (b) preparing  Annual
Work  Plans  and  Budgets  and  annual  procurement  plans;  (c)
overseeing  Project  activities  under 
(d)
managing  Project  finances;  (e)  maintaining  consolidated  Project
accounts;  (f)  ensuring  adherence  to  the  ESMF  and  RPF  in  the
implementation  of  the  Project;  and 
(g)  developing  and

responsibility; 

its 

-9-

maintaining  a  system  of monitoring  the  Project  key  performance
indicators.

(ii) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (b)(i)  above,
the  PIU  for  Part  B  of  the  Project  shall  be  headed  by  a
coordinator,  who  shall  be  assisted  by  a  team  comprised  of, inter
alia: (a)  a  financial  management  specialist;  (b)  a  procurement
specialist;  (c)  an  environmental  and  social  specialist;  and  (d)  a
and  qualifications
construction  engineer;  with  experience 
satisfactory  to the  World  Bank.

2. 

Eligible  Municipalities

The  Borrower  shall  at  all  times  during  the  implementation  of the  Project  ensure
in
that  each  Eligible  Municipality  maintains 
Section I.C.2  below.

its  eligibility  as  set  forth 

B. 

1. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Project Implementation  Manuals

(a) 

(b) 

Without  limitation of the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  through  DNDA  and  AIAS, 
in
accordance  with the  Project Implementation  Manual  (PIM)  and the  Project
Grants Manual  (PGM).

Except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
amend,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the  PIM  and  the  PGM,  or any  provision
thereof.  In case  of any conflict  between the  provisions of this Agreement
and  those  of the PIM  or the  PGM,  the  provisions of this  Agreement  shall
prevail.

2. 

Annual  Work Plans  and Budgets

The Borrower, through  DNDA  and  AIAS,  shall  prepare  and furnish  to the  World
Bank  for  its  approval,  not  later  than  December  31  of  each  year  during  the
implementation  of the  Project,  or  such  later  date  as  the  World  Bank  may  agree,
the  Annual  Work Plans  and Budgets  containing  all  activities  to  be  carried  out  in
the  following  Fiscal  Year,  modified  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to the  World  Bank,
taking  into account the  World  Bank's  comments and  views  on the matter.

-10-

Terms  and  Conditions  for  the  implementation  of  Municipal  Performance
Grants under Part A(i)(a)  of the  Project

C. 

1. 

Municipal  Performance  Grant

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that the  Municipal  Performance  Grants  are  transferred
to  the  respective  Eligible  Municipality  in  accordance  with,  and  subject  to,  the
criteria,  funds  flow  mechanism  and  processes  specified  in  the  PGM  and  this
Section  I.C.

2. 

Eligibility  criteria  for 
Performance  Grant

the  Eligible  Municipality 

to  access  a  Municipal

Without  limitation  to  the criteria  specified  in the  PGM  and  the  provisions of this
Section  I.C,  and  except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no  Eligible
Municipality  shall  be  eligible  to  receive  a  Municipal  Performance  Grant  unless
the  Borrower  and the  World  Bank  shall  have jointly  determined,  on the  basis  of
guidelines  and  criteria  specified  in  the  PGM  that  the  Eligible  Municipality
satisfies the eligibility  criteria,  which  shall  include,  inter alia, the following:

(a) 

Eligibility  criteria  to  access  Municipal  Performance  Grant  in  the  first
year of Project  execution:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

the  Eligible  Municipality  has  entered  into  a  Grant  Participation
Agreement  (GPA),  under terms  and conditions  satisfactory  to the
World  Bank, 
the  Eligible  Municipality's
willingness  to  participate 
in  the  Project  and  to  comply  with
Project  implementation  conditions;

confirms 

that 

the  Eligible  Municipality has  complied  with the  mandatory  entry
criteria  set  forth in the  PGM;

the  Eligible  Municipality  has  submitted 
Investment  Plan  and Budget;  and

its  Annual  Grant

the  Eligible  Municipality  has  submitted 
its  audited  financial
statement  related  to  its  most  recent  Fiscal  Year  supported  by  an
acceptable  auditor's  opinion,  defined  as  an  opinion  that  has  not
been disclaimed  and  it is not adverse.

(b) 

Eligibility  criteria  to  access  Municipal  Performance  Grant 
subsequent  years of Project execution:

in 

the

(i) 

the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  have  successfully  completed
the  PA  specified  in  paragraph  5  of  this  Section  I.C  and  have

-11-

the  eligibility  of  each  Eligible  Municipality 

to
determined 
receive  a  Municipal  Performance  Grant  in  the  corresponding
year;

the Eligible Municipality  has submitted  an updated Annual  Grant
Investment  Plan  and Budget  for the  corresponding  Fiscal  Year,
in  form and  substance  satisfactory  to the World  Bank;

the  Eligible  Municipality  has  submitted  its  audited  financial
for  the  previous  Fiscal  Year  supported  by  an
statement 
acceptable  auditor's  opinion,  defined  as  an  opinion that  has  not
been disclaimed  and  it is not adverse;  and

the  Eligible  Municipality  has  submitted  quarterly  progress
reports  to  the  PIU  for  Part  A(i)(a)  of  the  Project,  including
information  on  implementation  of  Subprojects,  as  well  as,
compliance  with the  ESMF and  RPF and procurement plans.

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

3. 

Terms  and Conditions  for the  financing of Subproiects

Without  limitation  to  the  criteria  specified  in  the  PGM  and  the  provisions  of
paragraph  5 of this  Section  I.C,  and  except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  Eligible  Municipality  be  responsible
for the  prioritization  and  selection  of the  Subprojects,  on  the  basis  of guidelines
and  criteria  specified  in  the  PGM,  which  shall  include,  inter alia, the  following,
namely that Subprojects  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

be limited to those  with a public  benefit within the functional  mandate of
the Eligible  Municipality;

reflect  the needs  and  priorities  of the Eligible  Municipality  approved  by
the relevant municipal  assembly;

be subject to the  negative list  detailed in the PGM;  and

not  be  eligible  for  financing  under  Part A(i)(a)  of the  Project  if they  are
to  be carried  out in  connection  with  an International  Waterway  or one  of
its tributaries.

4. 

Terms  and conditions of Grant Participation  Agreements  (GPA)

(a) 

Each  Municipal  Performance  Grant  shall  be  made  available  to  the
Eligible Municipality  under a GPA.

-12-

(b) 

The  GPA,  as  set  out  in  the  model  form  in  the PGM,  shall  be  executed
under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank,  and  shall
include,  inter alia, the  following provisions:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

the  obligation  of  the  Eligible  Municipality  to  carry  out  the
Subproject  in accordance  with the  PGM, the ESMF,  the  RPF  and
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  with  due  diligence 
and
efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  economic,
financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards  and
practices  satisfactory  to  the World  Bank;

the  obligation  of the  Eligible  Municipality  to  maintain  adequate
records to  reflect,  in accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices,
the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the
Subproject;

the  requirement  that:  (1)  the  goods,  works  and  services  to  be
financed  from the  proceeds  of the Municipal  Performance  Grant
shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  set  forth  in
Section  III  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  the  PGM;  and
(2)  such  goods,  works  and  services  shall  be  used  exclusively  in
carrying  out the  Subproject;

provisions  regarding  the  terms  and  conditions  to  access  the
Municipal  Performance  Grant, 
and
disbursement  conditions,  performance  incentives,  and  sanctions
for  non-performance  in accordance  with  this  Agreement  and  the
PGM;

eligibility 

including 

the  right  of the  Borrower  to  inspect  by  itself, or jointly  with  the
World  Bank,  if  the  World  Bank  shall  so  request,  the  goods,
works,  sites  or  plans  financed  by  a  Municipal  Performance
Grant,  the  operations  thereof  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents;

the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  obtain  all 
information,  as  the
Borrower  or  the  World  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  regarding
the  administration,  operation  and  financial  management  of  the
Municipal  Performance  Grant;  and

the  right  of  Borrower  to  suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of the
Eligible  Municipality  to  use  or  benefit  from  the  use  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Municipal  Performance  Grant  upon  failure  by
the Eligible  Municipality  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under
the GPA.

-13-

(c) 

Except  as  the  World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  parties  to  the  GPA  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or
waive  any  provision  of the  GPA,  which,  in  the  opinion  of the  World
Bank,  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  the  terms  of  the  Municipal
Performance  Grants  and the implementation  of Subprojects.

5. 

Performance  Assessment

Except  as  the World  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure,  at all  times  during the  execution  of the Project,  that the  following  process
of assessments  and reviews  are carried  out in  accordance  with the  details set forth
in the PGM:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  has  hired  a team  of  independent  auditors,  whose  terms  of
reference,  qualifications  and experience  shall be  satisfactory to the  World
Bank,  to  verify  the  accuracy  of  the  data  provided  by  each  Eligible
Municipality  and  to  evaluate  the  Eligible  Municipality's  achievement  of
targets  and  indicators,  which  shall  include,  inter alia, criteria  related  to:
(i) timely disbursement  of Municipal  Performance  Grants for  the relevant
Eligible  Municipality;  and  (ii)  documentary  evidence  to  the  effect  that
the  Eligible Municipality  has  improved  its  finances,  urban planning  and
land  use  management, in  a manner  satisfactory to the World  Bank;

each  Eligible  Municipality  shall  be  required  to  meet  those  targets  and
indicators  agreed  between the  Borrower  and the  World Bank;  and

the  results  of  the  PA  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph  shall  be
incorporated  into  the  Annual  Performance  Report to  be  submitted  by  the
Borrower  to  the  World  Bank  no  later  than  August  31  of  each  year,
following  which  the  Borrower  and  the  World  Bank  shall  review  the  PA
results  and  jointly  determine  the  continued  eligibility  of  each  Eligible
in
Municipality 
accordance  with the  PGM.

the  next  year,  which  shall  be  communicated 

in 

D. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Safeguards

E. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall  ensure that  the Project  is implemented  in  accordance  with the
the
Environmental 
Resettlement  Policy  Framework  (RPF),  and,  except  as  the  World  Bank  shall

and  Social  Management  Framework 

(ESMF) 

and 

-14-

2. 

3. 

4. 

otherwise  agree  in  writing,  shall  not  amend  or  waive  any  provision  of  the
aforementioned  documents.

In  the  case  of any  resettlement  activity  under  the  Project  involving  Displaced
Persons,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  no  displacement  or  restriction  of access
shall  occur  before  necessary  resettlement  measures  consistent  with  the  RPF,
including,  in  the  case  of  displacement,  full  payment  to  Displaced  Persons  of
compensation and  of other assistance  required  for relocation,  have taken  place.
Without  limitation  to  its  other  reporting  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  the
Borrower,  through  DNDA  and  AIAS,  shall  submit  to  the  World  Bank  on  a
quarterly  basis  reports  on  the  status  of compliance  with  the  ESMF  and  the  RPF;
and giving details  of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

measures  taken  in  furtherance  of such ESMF  and RPF;

conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to  interfere  with  the
smooth  implementation  of such  ESMF  and  RPF; and

remedial  measures 
conditions.

taken  or  required  to  be  taken  to  address  such

All  climate  vulnerability  assessments,  spatial  planning  studies,  land  management
instruments,  urban  environmental 
instruments,  surface  water  management
instruments,  urban  planning, 
land  use  and  environmental  management
methodologies,  as  well  as  all  other  advisory,  analytical,  planning,  strategizing
and  similar  activities  carried  out  or  tools  prepared  under  the  Project,  shall  be
carried  out  or  prepared,  by  or  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and  municipalities,
according  to  terms  of reference,  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank,  calling  for  such
activities  or tools  to  take  into  account,  and  be consistent  with, the  World Bank's
social  and environmental  safeguard  policies.

F. 

Mid-Term Reviews

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

No  later  than  thirty-six  (36)  months  after  the  Effective  Date  carry  out
jointly  with  the  World  Bank  a  mid-term  review  of the  progress  made  in
carrying  out  the  Project.  As  part  of  the  midterm  review,  the  Borrower
and  the  World  Bank shall  review  a report  prepared  and  submitted  by  the
PIUs  one month  in  advance  of the  midterm  review.

Assess,  during  the  mid-term  review,  inter alia: (i)  the  overall  progress
made  during  the  implementation  of the  Project,  including  the  criteria,

-15-

quality  and  effectiveness  of the PAs;  and (ii)  the  results of the monitoring
and  evaluation activities.

(c) 

No  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  completion  of  the  mid-term
review,  start  to  implement  the  recommendations  of the  mid-term  review
as agreed  with the  World Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports,  through  DNDA  and  AIAS,  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
Section 4.08  of the  Standard  Conditions  and on the  basis of indicators  acceptable
to  the  World  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period of one  calendar
semester,  and  shall  be  furnished to the  World  Bank not later than  one month after
the end  of the period covered  by  such report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  4.09  of  the  Standard
Conditions.

Without  limitation on the  provisions of Part A  of this Section, the Borrower  shall
and  furnish  to the  World  Bank,  as  part  of
prepare,  through  DNDA  and  AIAS, 
the  Project  Report  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each
calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project  covering  the
quarter, in  form  and substance  satisfactory to  the World  Bank.

The Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  2.07(b)  of  the  Standard  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  Fiscal  Year.  The  audited
Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished to  the  World  Bank
not later than six (6)  months after the  end of such period.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting  services.  All  goods  works  and  non-
consulting  services required  for the Project  and to be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to in  Section I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of
this Section.

-16-

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below 
in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  World  Bank  of
particular  contracts,  refer 
the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  case  may  be.

to  the  corresponding  method  described 

in 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except 
in
paragraph  2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured
under contracts awarded on the  basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

as  otherwise  provided 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and
non-consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under  which such  methods may  be used:

National  Competitive  Bidding

Procurement Method

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Shopping

Direct Contracting

3. 

Additional Procedures  for National  Competitive  Bidding (NCB):
(a) 

General
The  procedures  to  be  followed  for  NCB  shall  be  those  set  forth  in  the
Regulation,  with 
the  modifications  described 
following
paragraphs.

the 

in 

(b) 

Eligibility
No restriction  based  on nationality  of bidders  and/or origin  of goods  shall
apply.  Foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  participate  in  NCB  without
restriction  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  unjustified requirement  which
will  affect  their  ability  to  participate  in  the  bidding  process  such  as,  but
not  limited  to,  the  proof that  they  are  not  under  bankruptcy  proceedings

-17-

in  the Borrower's  territory;  have  a local  representative;  have  an  attorney
resident  and  domiciled  in  the  Borrower's  territory;  form  a joint  venture
with a  local  firm.  In cases  of joint ventures,  they  shall  confirm joint and
several  liability.

Prior  registration,  obtaining  a  license  or  agreement  shall  not  be  a
requirement  for any  bidder to  participate  in the  bidding process.

institutions  shall  be
Borrower's  government-owned  enterprises  or 
eligible  to  participate  in  the  bidding  process  only  if they  can  establish
legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under
that  they  are 
commercial  law, and are  not  dependent  agencies  of the  Borrower.

Bidding Documents
Standard  bidding documents  acceptable  to the  World Bank  shall be  used
for any procurement  process under NCB.

Preferences
No  domestic  preference  shall  be  given  for  domestic  bidders  and/or  for
domestically  manufactured  goods.

Applicable  Procurement Method  under the Regulation
Subject  to  these  NCB  exceptions,  procurement  under  NCB  shall  be
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  Regulation's  public  competition
(Concurso Piblico) method.

Bid  Preparation Time
Bidders  shall  be  given  at  least  twenty-eight  (28)  days  from  the  date  of
the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of  availability  of bidding  documents,
whichever  is later, to  prepare  and submit  bids.

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

Bid  Opening
Bids  shall  be  opened  in  public,  immediately  after  the  deadline  for  their
submission  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  stated  in  the  bidding
documents.

(h) 

Bid Evaluation
(i) 

Qualification  criteria  shall  be  clearly  specified  in  the  bidding
documents,  and  all  criteria  so  specified,  and  only  such  criteria  so
specified  shall  be  used  to  determine  whether  a  bidder  is
qualified;  the  evaluation  of the  bidder's  qualifications  should  be
technical  and  commercial
the 
conducted 
evaluation of the bid.  Qualification  criteria  shall  be  applied  on a
pass  or fail basis.

separately 

from 

-18-

(i) 

(j) 

(k) 

(1) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Evaluation  of  bids  shall  be  made  in  strict  adherence  to  the
criteria  declared  in  the  bidding  documents;  criteria  other  than
price  shall  be  quantified  in monetary  terms.
A  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  qualified  bidder  offering  the
lowest-evaluated  and substantially responsive  bid.

Bidders  shall  not  be  eliminated  on  the  basis  of  minor,  non-
substantial  deviations.

Rejection  of All  Bids  and Re-bidding
All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  World
Bank's  prior  concurrence.

Complaints  by  Bidders and Handling  of Complaints
The  Borrower  shall  establish  an  effective  and  independent  complaint
mechanism  allowing  bidders  to  complain  and  to  have  their  complaint
handled  in  a timely manner.

Right to Inspect/Audit
In  accordance  with  paragraph  1.16(e)  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,
each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  from  the  proceeds  of the
Financing  shall  provide  that:  (i)  the  bidders,  suppliers,  and  contractors
and their subcontractors,  agents,  personnel,  consultants,  service providers
or  suppliers,  shall  permit  the  World  Bank,  at  its  request,  to  inspect their
accounts,  records  and  other documents  relating  to the  submission  of bids
and  contract  performance,  and 
to  have 
them  audited  by  auditors
appointed  by  the  World  Bank;  and  (ii) 
the  deliberate  and  material
violation  by  the  bidder,  supplier,  contractor  or  subcontractor  of  such
provision  may  amount 
in
paragraph  1.16(a)(v) of the  Procurement Guidelines.

to  obstructive  practice  as  defined 

Fraud and  Corruption
Each  bidding  document  and  contract  financed  from  the  proceeds  of the
Financing  shall  include  provisions  on  matters  pertaining  to  fraud  and
corruption  as  defined 
in  paragraph  1.16(a)  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines.  The  World  Bank  may  sanction  a  firm  or  individual,  at  any
time,  in  accordance  with  prevailing  World  Bank  sanctions  procedures,
including  by  publicly  declaring  such  firm  or  individual  ineligible,  either
indefinitely  or  for  a  stated  period  of  time:  (i)  to  be  awarded  a  World
Bank-financed  contract;  and  (ii) 
to  be  a  nominated  sub-contractor,
consultant,  supplier  or  service  provider  of an  otherwise  eligible  firm
being  awarded an  World Bank-financed  contract.

-19-

(in) 

Debarment  under National  System
The World  Bank  may recognize,  if requested  by the  Borrower,  exclusion
from  participation  as  a  result  of debarment  under  the  national  system,
provided that the  debarment is  for offenses  involving  fraud,  corruption or
similar  misconduct,  and  further  provided  that  the  World  Bank  confirms
that  the  particular  debarment  procedure  afforded  due  process  and  the
debarment decision  is final.

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants'  Services

in
Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided 
paragraph  2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality-  and  Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  methods  of procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,
which  may be  used  for consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify
the circumstances  under which  such  methods may be used.

-20-

Procurement Method

(a)  Selection Based  on the Consultants'  Qualifications
(b)  Selection  under  a Fixed  Budget

(c)  Quality-Based  Selection

(d)  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(e)  Single-Source  Selection

(f)  Least-Cost  Selection

D. 

Review  by the World  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those  contracts  which shall  be  subject to  the
World  Bank's  Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review
by  the  World Bank.

Pre-qualification
The  contracts  in respect  of Part B(ii)(c)  of Schedule  I to  this  Agreement  shall  be
subject  to  Prequalification  in accordance  with Bank  procedures.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Financing  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of  Article  II  of the  Standard  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as the  World Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as revised  from time  to  time  by  the  World  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to
this  Agreement  pursuant 
instructions);  and 
to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set  forth in  the table in  paragraph  2  below.

to  such 

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category:

E. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

-21-

Amount  of the 
SCF/PPCR Loan 
Allocated 

(expressed  in USD) 

Amount of the 
SCF/PPCR 
Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed  in 
USD) 

Percentages

of
Expenditures
to  be
Financed
(Including
taxes)

6,500,000 

8,250,000 

100%

0 

1,000,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works,

consultants'  services
and non-consulting 
services,  under Part B
(vi)  of the Project

(2)  Goods,  Consultants' 

Services, Training  and
Operating  Costs  under
Part  B (v) of the  Project

TOTAL 

6,500,000 

9,250,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  from  the  Loan  Account  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

2. 

The Closing  Date is December  15,  2018.

Section  V. 

Other Undertakings

The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  make  FIlL  transfers  to  Eligible  Municipalities
during each  year of Project  implementation.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  no  contracts  in  respect  of  civil  works  shall  be
entered  into  until  the  World  Bank  shall  have  approved  the  relevant  RAP  and
ESMP  for each  such contract.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  no  Subprojects  shall  be  eligible  for  financing
under  Part  A(i)  (a)  of the  Project  if they  are to  be  carried  out  in  connection  with
an  International  Waterway  or one  of its tributaries.

B. 

1. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-22-

SCHEDULE  3

Repayment  Schedule

Date  Payment Due 

On each  15 January  and  15  July:
commencing  January  15,  2015,  to and  including 
July  15,  2034

commencing  January  15,  2034, to  and  including 
July  15,  2054

Principal Amount of the  Loan
repayable
(expressed  as  a  percentage)

1%

2%

-23-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Annual  Grant  Investment  Plan  and  Budget"  means  the  detailed  annual
investment  plan  and  budget  of an  Eligible  Municipality,  prepared  in  accordance
with provisions  of the Project  Grants  Manual  as defined here  below.

"AIAS"  means  Administraqdo de  Infra-estructuras de  Agua  e  Saneamento, the
Borrower's  entity  for  water  and  sanitation  infrastructure,  within  MOPH  as
defined here below.

"Annual  Performance  Report"  means  the  annual  performance  report  referred  to
in paragraph  I.C.5(c)  of Schedule  2 of this  Agreement.

"ANAMM"  means  Associaqao Nacional dos Municipios de  Moqambique, the
Borrower's  national  municipal association

"Annual  Work  Plan  and  Budget"  means  the  work  plan  and  budget  prepared
annually  for the  Project,  in  accordance  with  Section  I.B.2  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006, and revised  in January  2011.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"DNDA"  means  Direcqdo  Nacional  de  Desenvolvimento  Autdrquico,  the
Borrower's  National  Directorate  for  Local  Governance  Development  within
MAE,  as defined here  below.

10. 

"Displaced  Person"  means  any  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project,  has experienced  or would  experience  direct economic  and  social  impacts
caused  by:  (a) the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i) relocation  or loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of  income  sources  or
means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  person must  move to  another  location;
or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and
protected  areas, resulting  in adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood of such person.

-24-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Eligible  Municipality"  means  a  municipality  which  has  met  the  eligibility
criteria  specified  in  paragraph  2  of Section  I.C.  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,
and 
is  eligible  to  receive  a  Municipal  Performance  Grant,  and  "Eligible
Municipalities"  means  the collective  term thereof
"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
framework  disclosed  in  Mozambique  on  December  8,  2011,  and  at  the  World
Bank's  Infoshop  on  the  same  date  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
World  Bank,  setting  out  modalities  to  be  followed  in  assessing  the  potential
adverse  environmental  and  social  impact  associated  with  activities 
to  be
implemented  under  the  Project,  and  the measures  to  be  taken  to  offset,  reduce,  or
mitigate  such  adverse  impact,  as  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  consent of the World  Bank.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  or  "ESMP"  means  the  plan
approved  by  the World  Bank  for  the  Project,  to be  prepared  by  the  Borrower,  as
required  by  the  ESMF,  proposing  appropriate  mitigation,  monitoring  and
institutional  measures  designed  to  mitigate  potential  adverse  environmental  and
resettlement  impacts,  offset  them,  reduce  them  to  acceptable  levels  or  enhance
positive  impacts,  as the  same  may  be  amended  from time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  consent of the  World Bank.

"FIIL"  means Fundo de Investimento de Inciativa Local, the Borrower's  program
of transfers  made  on an  annual  basis  by  the  Borrower  to  Eligible  Municipalities
for  the purpose  of financing  capital  expenditures  of its municipalities.
"Fiscal  Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  from  each  January  1  through
December  31.

"Grant  Participation  Agreement"  or  "GPA" means  the  agreement  to  be  entered
into  between  the  Borrower  and  an  Eligible  Municipality  for  the  purposes  of
providing  a  Municipal  Performance  Grant  for  the  financing  of a  Subproject,  as
the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  to  the  satisfaction  of the  World
Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  and  amendments 
to  the  said
agreements.

"International  Waterway"  means  an  international  waterway  as  this  term  is
defined  under the  World Bank  Operational  Policy  7.50.
"MAE"  means  Ministrio da Administraqdo Estatal, the  Borrower's  ministry  of
state administration.

"MF"  means Ministirio das Finangas, the  Borrower's  ministry of finance.

-25-

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

"MOPH"  means  Ministirio das  Obras Publicas e  Habitaqao, the  Borrower's
ministry of public works  and housing.

"Municipal  Performance  Grant"  means  a transfer to  be made  out of the  proceeds
of the Loan  by the Borrower to an  Eligible Municipality  for the carrying  out of a
Subproject  under Part A(i)(a)  of the  Project.

"Operating  Costs"  means  Project  expenditures,  based  on  an  annual  budget
previously  approved  by  the  World  Bank, that  would  not  have  been  incurred  by
the  Borrower  absent  the  Project,  on  the  account  of:  (a)  office  utilities  and
reasonable  communications  expenses  (including  Project's  web-site  hosting  fees);
(b)  office  rental  expenses;  (c)  Project's  vehicles  maintenance  costs,  fuel  and
spare  parts;  (d)  travel  expenses  and  per  diems  exclusively  related  to  Project
implementation;  (e)  operation  and maintenance  of office  equipment;  (f) insurance
local
costs; 
advertising  costs  pertaining  to  Project  related  matters;  and  (i)  salaries  for
administrative  staff of the  PIUs (except  for  salaries  of Borrower's  civil  servants)
and  except  for  cash  compensation  and  land  acquisition  expenses  to  be  financed
by the Borrower  as part of the RAP,  if any.

translation  of  Project  related  documentation; 

(g)  routine 

(h) 

"Performance  Assessment"  or  "PA"  means  the  annual  assessment  referred  to  in
paragraph  5  of Section  I.C  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  for the  purpose  of
extending  a  Municipal  Performance  Grant  to  an  Eligible  Municipality  for  the
second  and  subsequent  years of Project  implementation.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank  Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  February  13,  2014,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the same  shall  be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

this  Agreement,  containing  or  referring 

"Project  Grants  Manual"  or  "PGM"  means  the  Borrower's  manual,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory  to the World Bank, pursuant to  Section  I.B.l of Schedule  2
to  detailed  arrangements  and
to 
procedures  for implementation  of Part A(i)(a) of the  Project,  including in  relation
to:  (i)  terms  and  conditions  for  Municipal  Performance  Grants;  (ii)  eligibility
criteria  for  Municipal  Performance  Grants;  (iii)  guidelines  and  criteria  for  the
prioritization  and  selection  of  Subprojects;  (iv)  a  model  GPA  referred  to  in
Section  I.C.4  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  (v) the  negative  list referred to  in
Section  I.C.3(c)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  (vi)  the  framework  to  be
followed  for the PAs;  and (vii)  such  other  administrative,  financial,  technical  and
for  the
organizational  arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be  required 

-26-

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

implementation  of  Part  A(i)(a)  of the  Project,  as  such  manual  may  be  amended
by  the Borrower  from time  to  time with  the prior  agreement  of the World  Bank.
"Project  Implementation  Manual"  or  "PIM"  means  the  Borrower's  manual,  in
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  World  Bank,,  containing  or  referring  to
detailed  arrangements  and  procedures  for  implementation  of the  Project,  except
for Part A(i)(a)  of the Project,  including  in relation to: (i)  day-to-day  execution  of
the  of the Project;  (ii)  disbursement  and  financial  management;  (iii)  procurement;
(iv)  monitoring,  evaluation,  and  reporting;  (v)  procedures,  measures  and
guidelines  for environmental  management  and  implementation  of the ESMF  and
the  RPF;  (vi)  the  Annual  Work  Plan  and  Budget  for  the  first  year  of  Project
implementation;  and  (vii)  such  other  administrative,  financial,  technical  and
organizational  arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be  required  for  the  Project,
as  such  manual  may  be  amended  by  the  Borrower  from  time  to  time  with  the
prior agreement  of the World  Bank.

"Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  "PIU" means  each  of the  implementation  units
referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1(a)  and  (b),  respectively,  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "RAP"  means the  Borrower's  document  prepared
and  disclosed  in  accordance  with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  with
respect  to the  Project,  which,  inter alia: (i)  contains  a census  survey  of Displaced
Persons  and  valuation  of  assets; 
(ii)  describes  compensation  and  other
resettlement  assistance 
to  be  provided,  consultation 
to  be  conducted  with
Displaced  Persons  about  acceptable  alternatives,  institutional  responsibilities  for
the  implementation  and  procedures  for  grievance  redress,  and  arrangements  for
monitoring  and  evaluation;  and  (iii)  contains  a  timetable  and  budget  for  the
implementation  of such  measures,  as  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  consent of the World Bank.

"Regulation"  means  the  Borrower's  Rules  on  Procurement  of  Works,  Provision
of Goods  and  Services,  (Regulamento de  Contratacao de  Empreitada de  Obras
Publicas, Fornecimento de Bens e  Prestacao de Servicos ao Estado) published  in
the Borrower's  Official  Gazette (Boletim da Republica) on May  24,  2010.
"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  framework  disclosed  in
Mozambique  on  December  8,  2011,  and  at  the  World  Bank's  Infoshop on  the
same  date  containing  guidelines,  procedures,  timetables  and  other  specifications
for the  provision  of compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to
Displaced  Persons,  as  amended  from  time to  time  with the  prior  written  consent
of the World  Bank.

32. 

"SCF-PPCR  Grant  Agreement"  means  the  Strategic  Climate  Fund  (SCF)-Pilot
Program  for  Climate  Resilience  (PPRC)  Grant  Agreement,  of even  date  hereof,

-27-

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

entered  into  by  the  World  Bank,  acting  as  an  implementing  entity  of the  SCF-
PPRC  and the Borrower  to assist in the financing  of the Project.

"SCF-PPCR  Grant"  means  the  grant  in  the amount  of nine  million two  hundred
and  fifty thousand Dollars  (USD9,250,000)  provided by the World  Bank to  assist
in the  financing of the  Project pursuant  to  the SCF/PPRC  Grant Agreement.

"Standard  Conditions"  means  the  Standard  Conditions  for  Loans  Made  by  the
World Bank  Out of the Climate  Investment  Funds,  dated  February  15,  2012.

terms  and
"Subprojects"  means  small-scale 
conditions  specified  under Section  I.C.3  of the  Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement  and
in  the  Project  Implementation  Manual,  financed  or  to  be  financed  through
Municipal  Performance  Grants  under Part  A(i) (a)  of the Project.

investments  which  meet 

the 

"Training"  means  the  costs  associated  with the training  of personnel  involved  in
Project  supported  activities  under the  Project,  based on  an  annual  plan  approved
by  the  World  Bank, including  travel costs  and per diems  for  training  participants,
costs associated with securing  the services  of trainers,  rental of training  facilities,
preparation  and  reproduction  of  training  materials,  and  other  costs  directly
related to  course  preparation  and  implementation

