OFFICIAL
IDOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8354-CO

Loan Agreement

(Access  with  Quality to  Higher Education  Project-ACCES  II-SOP Phase  2)

INSTITUTO  COLOMBIANO  DE  CREDITO  EDUCATIVO  Y  ESTUDIOS
TECNICOS  EN  EL EXTERIOR  - ICETEX

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

/ 

0,  _

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated De(&&Z 

201y, between  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
("Bank")  and 
INSTITUTO
COLOMBIANO  DE  CREDITO  EDUCATIVO  Y  ESTUDIOS  TECNICOS  EN  EL
EXTERIOR  - ICETEX ("Borrower").

Whereas  the  Borrower  hereby  represents  that  it  has  the  necessary  legal  capacity
and  powers  to  enter  into  this  Agreement  and  perform  its  obligations  set  forth  herein,  all
pursuant to  the Borrower's  Legal  Framework.

The  Bank  and the  Borrower hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I  - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part  of this  Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

in 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  two  hundred  million  Dollars  ($
200,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"), to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I to
this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 

in  accordance  with

Section  III  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee
not  later than  60  days  after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any

amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates  are  April  15  and  October  15  in each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
provisions of Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request any of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii) a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or (C) all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii) the
setting  of limits on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested pursuant  to  paragraph  (a) of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project  and  the
Program.  To  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance
with  the  provisions of Article  V of the  General Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE IV - TERMINATION

4.01.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after the  date  of this Agreement,  but  in  no
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan
which  expire on  October  1, 2015.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  the  President of ICETEX.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

ICETEX
Carrera  3ra No.  18  - 32
Bogota, Colombia

Facsimile:

+571-599  6323

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at  n 

and year first  above  written.

/A,J>/mb 

,ed  /4lp} 

, 

3.  1i  .,  as  of  the  day

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

uthorized  Representative

Name:  A40v 0 

&

Title: 

q 

7

INSTITUTO  COLOMBIANO  DE CREDITO
EDUCATIVO  Y  ESTUDIOS  TEC 
EXTERIOR  - ICETEX

OS  EN  L

Aut 

riz  d Representative

Title:  _____T 

(____

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  increase  student  enrollment,  graduation  and
equity  in  higher  education,  by:  (a)  increasing  the  number  of ACCES  Student  Loans  and
socioeconomic
students 
the  ACCES  Program's 
backgrounds  and  in  quality  higher  education  institutions  and  programs;  and  (b) enhancing
the  Borrower's  institutional  capacity.

from  disadvantaged 

focus  on 

The  Project  constitutes  the  second  phase  of  the  Program,  and  consists  of  the

following  parts:

Part  1:  Student  Loans

Provision  of ACCES  Student  Loans  to  Eligible  Students  to  finance  their  tuition

and/or  subsistence (sostenimiento) in  Eligible  HEls  to  pursue  a Pregrado Degree.

Part 2. 

Institutional  Strengthening

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

loan  administration  and  portfolio
Strengthening  of  the  Borrower's 
management  (including  loan  collection  practices)  capacity  through,  inter
alia, the  development  of  differentiated  collection  strategies  based  on
portfolio  risks,  and  the  upgrading  of information  systems  (hardware  and
software).

its  ACCES
Strengthening  of  the  Borrower's  capacity  to:  (i)  manage 
Program  through,  inter alia, the use  of scorecards  and the  carrying out  of
HEI Contracts  implementation  supervision  activities;  and (ii) manage  the
Sustainability  Fund.

through, 

Provision  of  support  for  the  Borrower's  diversification  of  financial
inter  alia,  the  carrying  out  of:  (i)  studies  on
resources 
alternatives  to  expand  its  funding  sources  and  to  develop  an  endowment
fund,  and  on  partnerships  with  the  private  sector;  and  (ii)  fundraising
activities.

(i) The carrying  out of:  (A)  impact  evaluations  of the  Borrower's  student
loans;  and  (B)  tracer  studies  to  track  employment  of HEI  graduates  that
completed  their  studies  and  received  student  loans  provided  by  the
Borrower,  including  ACCES  Student  Loans;  and  (ii)  the  provision  of
support  for  the  Borrower's  overall  Project coordination,  implementation,
and  monitoring  including, inter alia, the  carrying out of audits.

-5-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1 

(a)  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,
the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project 
in  accordance  with  a  manual
("Operational  Manual"),  satisfactory 
to  the  Bank,  containing  specific
provisions  on  detailed  arrangements  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,
including,  inter alia:

a  detailed  description  of  the  institutional  arrangements  of  the
Project;

the  Project  administrative,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting,  financial,
procurement  and  disbursement  procedures;

the  criteria  and  methods  for  the  identification  of  the  Eligible
Students;

the  criteria,  procedures  and  methods  for  the  selection  of  Eligible
implementation  and  monitoring  of  the
Students,  and  approval, 
new
ACCES  Student  Loans, 
methodologies  for the  allocation  of the  ACCES  Program  resources;

including 

current 

and 

the 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

a  model  Student Loan  Agreement;

a  model  HEI  Contract;

(vii) 

the  IPP;

(viii) 

the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;  and

(ix) 

the  monitoring  indicators  for the  Project.

(b)  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not amend  or
waive  any  provision  of  the  Operational  Manual  without  the  Bank's  prior
written  approval.  In  the  event  that  any  provision  of the  Operational  Manual
shall  conflict  with  this  Agreement,  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  shall
prevail.

-6-

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  implementation  of the  Project,  key
staff for the  Project,  including,  without  limitation,  a  Project  coordinator,  all  with
terms of reference,  and qualifications  and experience  satisfactory  to the  Bank.
Not  later  than  May  15,  2014,  the  Borrower  shall  approve  the  new  methodology
described 
in  the  Operational  Manual,  for  the  allocation  ACCES  Program
resources.

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

By  exercising  its  rights  under  the  HEI  Contracts  (in  particular  under  Clausula
Novena), the Borrower  shall  enable the  Bank:  (a)  to  inspect accounts,  records  and
other  documents  of  the  Eligible  HEls  relating  to  the  Project  upon  the  Bank's
request to  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  at  its  request,  to have  such  accounts,  records  and
other  documents  audited  by  or  on  behalf  of  the  Bank,  using  the  terms  of
reference  agreed  with the  Bank.

Student Loans

Prior  to  the provision  of any  ACCES  Student  Loan,  the Borrower  shall enter  into
an  agreement  ("Student  Loan  Agreement")  with  the  corresponding  Eligible
Student,  under terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including,  inter alia,
the obligation  of the Eligible  Student to repay  the  ACCES  Student  Loan.

Prior  to  the  transfer  of any  proceeds  of the  Loan  (in  the  form  of partial  or  full
ACCES  Student  Loans)  to  any  given  Eligible  HEI,  the  Borrower  shall  enter  into
a  HEI  Contract  with  said  Eligible  HEI,  under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  including,  inter alia: (a)  the  Borrower's:  (1) obligation  to:  (A)  transfer
the  proceeds  of  the  ACCES  Student  Loans  to  the  Eligible  HEI  to  finance  the
tuition  of Eligible  Students  who have  been selected  to receive  an  ACCES  Student
Loan;  and  (B)  evaluate  the  Eligible  HEI's  progress  against  the  benchmarks
corresponding  to  the  indicators  included  in  the  Scorecard;  and  (ii)  right  to
suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  the  Eligible  HEI  to  use  the  proceeds  of the
ACCES  Student  Loans,  upon the  Eligible  HEI's  failure  to  comply  with any  of its
obligation  under  the  HEI  Contract;  and  (b) the obligations  of the Eligible  HEI  to:
(1) set  up  an  office  to  provide  assistance  to  recipients  of the  Borrower's  loans,
including  ACCES  Student  Loans,  to  graduate  and  manage  their  debt,  and  to
support  collection  efforts  after  graduation;  (ii)  monitor  their  progress  against
benchmarks  corresponding  to  the  indicators  included  in  the  Scorecard;  and  (iii)
comply with  the  Borrower's standards  and  parameters,  including  the  Operational
Manual,  as  applicable.

-7-

3. 

4. 

D. 

1. 

A. 

1. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  exercise  its rights  and  carry  out its obligations  under  each
Student  Loan  Agreement  and/or  HEI  Contract,  in  such  a  manner  as to  protect  the
interests  of the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the
Loan;  and  (b) except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Student  Loan
Agreement  and/or HEl  Contract  (or any  provision  thereof).

In  case  of any  conflict  between  the  terms of any  Student  Loan  Agreement  and/or
HEI  Contract  and  the  terms of this  Agreement,  the  terms of this Agreement  shall
prevail.

The  Borrower  shall carry  out the Project  in  accordance  with the  IPP.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

Safeguards

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual.
Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty  five  days  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by  such report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

in  accordance  with 

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank,  as part of each  Project  Report,  interim  unaudited
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  pertinent  semester,  in  form  and
substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower,
commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  Project  becomes  effective.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank
not  later than  six months  after the end  of such  period.

-8-

Section  III.  Withdrawal of  Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

I. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  11 of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures as  set
forth  in  the table  in  paragraph  2 below.

The  following table  specifies the  categories of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed for Eligible  Expenditures in each Category.

Cate2ory 

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  ACCES  Student  Loans 
under  Part  I of the  Project
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

200,000,000 

200,000,000

100%

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

From  the  Loan  Account  until  the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of
the  Front-end  Fee;  or

(b) 

For  payments  made prior to the  date  of this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing  Date is June 30, 2019.

-9-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall
repay  each  Disbursed  Amount  in  semiannual  installments  payable  on  each  April
15  and  October  15,  the  first  installment  to  be  payable  on  the  thirteenth  (13th)
Interest  Payment  Date  following  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed
Amount  and  the  last  installment  to  be  payable  on  the  forty-fifth  (45th)  Interest
Payment  Date  following  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed  Amount.
Each  installment  except  for  the  last one  shall  be  equal  to  one-thirty-third  (1/33rd)
of the  Disbursed  Amount.  The  last  installment  shall  be  equal  to  the  remaining
outstanding  amount  of the  Disbursed  Amount.

If any  one  or  more  installments  of  principal  of the  Disbursed  Amount  would,
pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  I  of  this  Schedule,  be  payable  after
October  15,  2041,  the  Borrower  shall  also  pay  on  such  date the aggregate  amount
of all  such  installments.

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Loan  Parties  of  the  amortization  schedule  for  each
Disbursed  Amount  promptly  after  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed
Amount.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I through  3 of this  Schedule,  in  the
event  of a  Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of a  Disbursed  Amount  to
an  Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that
is  repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (1) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii) if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency.

-10-

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

1. 

"ACCES  Program"  means  Program de  Access  con  Cali  dad a  la  Education
Superior, the  Borrower's  program  on  access  to  higher  education  with  quality
established  through  COMPES  (Conseco  National  de  Political Economical y
Social) Document  3203/2002.

"ACCES  Student  Loan"  means  any  of the  loans  to  be  provided  by  the  Borrower
to  an  Eligible  Student  under  the  relevant  Student  Loan  Agreement  and  included
under  Part  I of the  Project.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January  2011.

"Borrower's  Legal  Framework"  means  Law  1002,  dated  December  30,  2005,
published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on  December  30,  2005,  governing
the  creation  and  functioning  of  the  Borrower,  as  amended  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  III of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Eligible  HEI"  means  any  institution  providing  Pregrado Degrees  that  meets  the
eligibility criteria  set forth  in  the Operational  Manual.

"Eligible  Student"  means  a  student  who  is  eligible  to  benefit  from  an  ACCES
Student Loan  in accordance  with the criteria  set  forth  in the  Operational  Manual.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"Guarantee  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Member  Country  and
the  Bank  providing  for  the  guarantee  of the  Loan,  as  such  agreement  may  be
amended  from  time  to time.

"HEI"  means any  higher  education  institution  in  the  Guarantor's  territory.

"HE]  Contract"  means  any  contract  to  be  entered  into,  or  an  existing  contract  to
be  amended,  between 
the  Borrower  and  a  HEI,  including  Eligible  HEls,
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  build  a  strategic  alliance  between  the  Borrower  and  a
given  HEI to  finance  higher  education  through  the  provision  of Student  Loans.

-11-

"Indigenous  Peoples"  means,  a  social  group  of people  with  a  distinct  social  and
in  the
cultural  identity  that  makes  them  vulnerable  to  being  disadvantaged 
development  process,  including  the  presence  in  varying  degrees  of the  following
characteristics:  (1) a  close  attachment  to  ancestral  territories  and  to  the  natural
resources  in  the  these  areas;  (ii) self-identification  and  identification  by  others  as
members  of a distinct  cultural  group;  (iii)  an  indigenous  language,  often  different
from  the  national  language;  (iv)  presence  of  customary  social  and  political
institutions;  and  (v)  primarily  subsistence  oriented  production.

"IPP"  means  the  Borrower's  indigenous  peoples  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
December  20,  2013,  that  details  an  action  plan  to  assist  Indigenous  Peoples,  afro-
Colombians,  roam  and  victims  of  violence  to  overcome  barriers  to  access  to
tertiary  education,  including  through  the  institutional  strengthening  of  HEls
where  these  populations  have  a  strong  presence,  as  said  plan  may  be  updated
from  time to  time with  the prior  agreement  of the  Bank.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual,  dated  March  4,  2014,
referred  to  in Section  I.A. I of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Pregrado Degree"  means  a  university  undergraduate  degree  or  a  degree  from  a
the
technological 
Guarantor's territory.

institution  or  a  professional 

institution  all 

technical 

in 

"Program"  means  the  program  designed  to  support  the  Borrower's  strategy  to
strengthen  its  student  loan  program  for  tertiary  education,  which  program  is  set
forth  in  the  letter  dated  December  13,  2007  (recorded  under  ACCES  UCP  4907-
07),  from the  Borrower  to the  Bank  (as  said terms  are  defined  herein).

"Scorecard"  means  a  summary  report,  included  in the  HEI  Contract,  containing  a
to  the  Borrower's
series  of  indicators  designed 
efficiency
internal 
sustainability 
improvements.

to  monitor  factors  key 
and 

the  Eligible  HEI's  quality 

and 

"SOP" means series  of projects.

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Sustainability  Fund"  means  the  Borrower's  fund,  created  by  the  Borrower's
Accord  (Cuero de Junta Directive) No.  10,  dated  May  19,  2009,  as the  same  has
been  amended  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  to  which  semiannual  contributions
are made  by  HEIs  as specified  in  the  HEI  Contracts.

20. 

"Student  Loan  Agreement"  means  any  of  the  agreements  (Pagane y  Carat de
Instructions) referred  to in  Section  I.C. I of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

-12-

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  modifications  to  the General  Conditions  are as  follows:

1. 

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.09  is  modified to read  as follows:

"Section  5.09.  Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause 

(a) 
to  be  maintained  a  financial
management  system  and  prepare  financial  statements  ("Financial  Statements")  in
accordance  with  consistently  applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  both  in  a  manner  adequate 
its  operations,  resources  and
expenditures,  and  including  those related  to the  Project."

to  reflect 

2. 

The  definition  of  the  term  "Financial  Statements" 
Appendix  to  the General  Conditions  is  modified  to  read:

in  paragraph  43  of  the

"'Financial  Statements'  means  the financial  statements  referred  to  in  Section
5.09."

-13-

