OOCOENT~

LOAN  NUMBER  8440-MA

Loan Agreement

(Noor-Ouarzazate  Concentrated  Solar Power Plant Project)

INTERNAl  IONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

MORO(  CAN AGENCY  FOR SOLAR ENERGY

Dated  December  19,2014

LOAN  NUMBER  8440-MA

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dattd  December  19,  2014,  between  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
("Bank")  and  MOROCCAN

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT 
AGENCY  FOR  SOLAR El  ERGY ("Borrower").

WHEREAS:  (A)  K  ngdom of Morocco  (the  Guarantor)  and  the Borrower,  having
been  satisfied  as to  the  fea. ibility  and  priority  of the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement,  have  reque sted  the  Bank  to  assist  in  the  financing  of Part  1.A,  Part  1.C
and Part  2 of the Project;

(B) 

by  an  agree ment (the  IBRD  Guarantee  Agreement)  of even  date herewith
between  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank,  the  Guarantor  has  agreed  to  guarantee  the  Loan
Payment  obligations  of the I lorrower in respect  of the Loan;

(C) 

by  an  agret  ment  of even  date  herewith  (the  CTF  Loan  Agreement),  the
Bank,  acting  as  the  imple  nenting  agency  of  the  Clean  Technology  Fund  (CTF)  has
agreed  to  make  a  loan  (the  CTF  Loan)  to  the  Borrower  in  the  amount  of one  hundred
nineteen million  Dollars  ($119,000,000)  to assist  in  financing  Part  L.A  and Part  1.C  of the
Project  on the terms  and cot ditions  set forth  in the CTF  Loan Agreement;

(D) 

by  an  agre.ment  (CTF  Guarantee  Agreement)  of  even  date  herewith
between  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank,  the  Guarantor  has  agreed  to  guarantee  the  Loan
payment  obligations  of the  Borrower  in respect  of the CTF Loan;  and

WHEREAS  the  BEnk  has  agreed,  on  the  basis,  inter alia, of  the  foregoing,  to
extend  the  Loan  to  the  I  orrower  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;

The Bank  and the  E orrower hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
in 
constitute  an integr  .1 part of this  Agreement.

the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless 

the  conteN t  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  th,- meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to thi; Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

-2-

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or
referred  to in  this  A greement:  (a)  the  amount  of two hundred  thirty-four  million
five  hundred  thous and  Euros  (E234,500,000);  and  (b)  the  amount  of  eighty
million  Dollars  ($8  ),000,000),  as  such  amounts  may  be  converted  from  time  to
time through  a Curr -ncy Conversion  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section
2.07  of  this  Agreen lent  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  Part  I.A,  Part  1.C  and
Part 2  of  the  projec: described  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  mal  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV of Schec ule 2  to  this Agreement.

2.03.  The Front-end  Fee  >ayable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of ihe  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payabl.  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Refer  nce  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  intere st  payable  by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  )e  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the  3eneral  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the With irawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower 
in
Section 3.02(e)  of the General  Conditions.

calculated 

provided 

instead 

shall 

be 

as 

2.05.  The  Payment  Dates are  January  I and July  1 in  each year.

2.06.  The  principal  amc unt  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisions  of Sched ule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrov  er  may at any  time request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the term  of the Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii) a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portio  i  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)
all  or  any  )ortion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  SI  read to  a  Variable  Rate  based on a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the  Variabl  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  v ithdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  SI  read to  a  Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the

-3-

setting  of 1 mits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable to
all  or  any  )ortion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstandinj  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate
Collar on th te Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conve  sion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  Gent eral  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  )f Article  IV of the  General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  decl tres  its  commitment  to the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  Part  1.A  of  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the
Second  Plant  Projict  Implementing  Entity  and  Part  1.C  of  the  Project  to  be
carried  out  by  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  shall  carry  out
Part  1.B,  Part  1 .D  nd  Part 2  of the  Project  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
Article  V of the  Ge ieral  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Pr  ject  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this /.greement.

ARTIC  LE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional Events  of Suspension  consist  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Basic Legislation  has been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed
or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of the
Borrower  t)  perform  any  of its  obligations  under this  Agreement,  or to
achieve the  objectives  of the Project.

The  Conve itions  have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the
Borrower  z nd/or  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and/or
the  Third  )lant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  their
obligations  under  this  Agreement,  or  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the
Project.

Any party  t  any of the  Conventions  or  any of the  agreements  referred  to
in  Sections  IV.B.1.(b)(i)(E),  IV.B.1.(b)(i)(H)  and  IV.B.1.(b)(i)(I),  and
Sections  1V.B.L(c)(i)(E), 
IV.B.1.(c)(i)(H) 
of
Schedule  :  to  this  Agreement  has:  (i)  failed  to  perform  any  of  its

IV.B.I.(c)(i)(I) 

and 

-4-

obligations  under  any  of  such  Conventions  or  agreements  and  such
default  has  Lffected  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of the  Borrower
and/or  the 
econd  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and/or  the  Third
Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of their  obligations
under  this  A greement,  or to  achieve  the  objectives  of the  Project;  or  (ii)
terminated  z ny of the  Conventions  or  any  of such  agreements  and  such
termination  has  affected  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the
Borrower  ai  d/or  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and/or
the  Third  P [ant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  their
obligations 
inder  this  Agreement,  or  to  achieve  the  objectives  of the
Project.

4.02.  The  Additional  EveT  ts of Acceleration  consist  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

Any  event  ! pecified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  Section  4.01  of this
Agreement occurs.

The  event  s )ecified  in  paragraph  (c)  of Section  4.01  of this  Agreement
occurs  and  i;  continuing  for  a period  of 60  days  after  notice  of the  event
has been gi-  -n by the  Bank to the  Borrower.

ARTICLE  I I-  EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Con  lition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  that
the  CTF  Loan  Agrnement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all  conditions
precedent  to  its  effi!ctiveness  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of this  Agreement)
have  been  satisfied c r waived.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  E eadline  is the  date  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the

date  of this Agreemc  nt.

ARTICLE 'l  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Re )resentative  is  the  President  of  its  Management  Board
(Directoire).

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Adc ress  is:

Moroccan  Agency  for Solar Energy
Immeuble  Extensior  CMR;  third floor
Avenue  Al  Araar
Hay  Riad
10014, Rabat
Kingdom of Morocc:)

Facsimile:
(212)  537  57  14 -5

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  0433
United  States  of Ai ierica

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Raba,  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  as  of the  day  and  year  first  above

written.

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

-5-

By

By

Autho rized Repres 

tative

Name:  Simon Gray

Title:  Country  Director

MOROCCAN 
ENERGY

AGENCY 

FOR 

SOLAR

horized  Representative

Name:  Mustapha  Bakkoury

Title:  Prdsident  du Directoire

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of thi  Project  is  to  increase:  (a)  installed  capacity  (megawatt);  and
(b)  electricity  output  (me gawatt-hour),  especially  during  peak  hours,  of  the  Noor-
Ouarzazate  Solar  Complex.

The Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part  1:  Financing the Initia  Investment

Development  of the  Second  Plant through  the formation  of a partnership  between
the Borrower  and  a competitively  selected  partner.

Construction  of the  Second Plant  Associated Facilities.

Development  of thc  Third  Plant through  the  formation  of a  partnership  between
the Borrower  and  a competitively  selected partner.

D. 

Construction  of the Third  Plant Associated  Facilities.

Part 2:  Cost Mitigation  Me -hanism

Supporting  the  acq fisition  of kilowatt-hours  produced  by  the  First  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  partially  cover  the  difference  in  the  price  at  which  the
Borrower  would  bt y  the  electricity  generated  by  the  First Plant  and  the  price  at
which  the Borrowet  would sell  such electricity to ONEE.

Supporting  the  acquisition  of  kilowatt-hours  produced  by  the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementi  ig  Entity  to  partially cover  the difference  in  the price at which
the  Borrower  woul i  buy  the  electricity  generated  by  the  Second  Plant  and  the
price at which  the F orrower  would  sell such  electricity to  ONEE.

Supporting  the  acqi  isition  of kilowatt-hours  produced  by  the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  partially  cover  the  difference  in  the  price  at  which  the
Borrower  would  bL y the  electricity  generated  by  the  Third  Plant and the  price  at
which  the Borrowei  would  sell  such electricity to  ONEE.

A. 

B. 

C. 

A. 

B. 

C. 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implement ition  Arrangements

Institutional Arrar gements

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  sha  1  cause 
the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity,
including  as  the  cas-  may  be  through  exercising  its  voting powers  in  relation  to
the  Second  Plant Pr )ject Implementing  Entity  and  all powers  of control available
in  relation to  its  no ninee  to  the  Supervisory  Board  of the  Second  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entit,', to implement  Part  1.A  of the  Project  in accordance  with the
MASEN  Financial  Management  and  Disbursement  Manual, 
the  MASEN
,  the  Second  Plant  Financial  Management  and
Governance  Framt  work 
the  Second  Plant  Governance  Framework  and  all
Disbursement  Mar  ual, 
IV.B.1(b)(i)(H)  and  IV.B.1(b)(i)(I)  of
agreements 
in  Sections 
referre  I  to 
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower  shall  not,  and  shall  cause  the
Second  Plant  Proje ct  Implementing  Entity  not  to  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,
repeal  or  waive:  (i  any  provision  of the  MASEN  Financial  Management  and
Disbursement  Manual,  the  MASEN  Governance  Framework,  the  Second  Plant
Financial  Manager  ient  and  Disbursement  Manual,  and 
the  Second  Plant
Governance  Frame work  without  prior  approval  of  the  Bank;  and  (ii)  any
provision  of  any  agreement  referred  to 
Sections  IV.B.1(b)(i)(H)  and
IV.B.1(b)(i)(I)  of S(hedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  if such  amendment,  suspension,
abrogation,  repeal  cr  waiver  would  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of
the  Borrower  and/cr  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform
any  of its  obligatiois  under  this  Agreement,  or  to  achieve  the  objectives  of the
Project.  In  addition,  the  Borrower  shall  not,  and  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementit  g  Entity  not to  assign  their respective  rights  under any  of the
agreements  referre  I  to  in  Sections  IV.B.1(b)(i)(H)  and  IV.B.I(b)(i)(I)  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement  without prior approval  of the Bank.

in 

The Borrower  shall  cause  the Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity, including
as the  case  may  be  through  exercising  its  voting  powers  in  relation to  the  Third
Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  all  powers  of control  available  in  relation
to  its nominee  to  th-  Supervisory  Board  of the Third  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity,  to  impleme-it  Part  1.C  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  MASEN
Financial  Managen tent  and  Disbursement  Manual,  the  MASEN  Governance
Framework,  the  Th  rd  Plant  Financial  Management  and  Disbursement  Manual,
the  Third  Plant  Covemance  Framework  and  all  agreements  referred  to  in
Sections  IV.B.1(c)(i)(H)  and  IV.B.I(c)(i)(I)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.
The  Borrower  shal  not,  and  shall  cause  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity  not to  amenc,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive:  (i)  any  provision  of the
the  MASEN
MASEN  Financial  Management  and  Disbursement  Manual, 

3. 

4. 

-8-

;uspension,  abrogation, 

the  Third  Plant  Financial  Management 

and
Governance  Frame work, 
Disbursement  Manu; .,  and the  Third  Plant  Governance  Framework  without prior
approval  of  the  Bar k;  and  (ii)  any  provision  of  any  agreement  referred  to  in
Sections  IV.B.1(c)(i  (H)  and  IV.B.1(c)(i)(I)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  if
such  amendment, 
repeal  or  waiver  would  affect
materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  the  Borrower  and/or  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementih  g  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement,  or  to acl ieve  the  objectives  of the  Project.  In  addition,  the  Borrower
shall  not,  and  shall  cause  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  not  to
assign their  respectii e  rights  under  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Sections
IV.B.1(c)(i)(H)  and  I V.B.1(c)(i)(I)  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement  without prior
approval  of the Banl.

The Borrower  shall:  i) maintain the  Project Management  Unit  at all times  during
the  implementation  )f the  Project  with  qualified  staff  and  adequate  resources;
and  (ii)  cause  the  Se cond  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  and the  Third  Plant
Project 
the
implementation  of tlh e Project with  qualified  staff and adequate  resources.

Implementi  ig  Entity  to  be  maintained  at  all 

times  during 

IV.3.1(b)(i)(H)  and  IV.B.1(b)(i)(I)  of  Schedule  2  to 

The  Borrower  shall  inform  the  Bank,  and  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  inform  the  Borrower  of:  (i)  any  failure  by  any  party  to
any  of  the  Conven  ions  and  any  of  the  agreements  referred  to  in  Sections
IV.B.1(b)(i)(E), 
this
Agreement,  to  perfo: m  any  of its  obligations  under any of such  Conventions  and
agreements,  when  st  ch default may  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of
the  Borrower  and/oi  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform
any  of their  obligations  under this  Agreement,  or to achieve  the  objectives  of the
Project,  or  (ii)  any  failure  or  violation  by  any  such  party,  to  the  best  of  the
Borrower's  knowledge,  of  any  law,  regulation,  decree,  or  order  that  could
reasonably  be  expec  ed to materially  adversely  affect  the  violating  party's ability
to  perform  its  oblil ations  under  any  of  the  Conventions  and  any  applicable
and
agreement 
IV.B. 1 (b)(i)(I)  of  Sc hedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower  shall  inform  the
Bank,  and  shall  cau ;e  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  inform
the  Borrower,  of an"  dispute  involving  any party  to  any  of the  Conventions  and
any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Sections 
IV.B.1(b)(i)(E),  IV.B.1(b)(i)(H)
and  IV.B.1(b)(i)(I)  )f Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  regarding  any  such
Conventions  and  agreements,  when  such  dispute  may  affect  materially  and
the  Second  Plant  Project
adversely 
Implementing  Entity  to perform  any of their obligations  under this  Agreement,  or
to achieve  the  object  ves of the Project.

the  abil  ty  of  the  Borrower  and/or 

IV.B.1(b)(i)(E), 

IV.B.1(b)(i)(H) 

in  Sections 

referred 

to 

5. 

The  Borrower  shall  inform  the  Bank,  and  shall  cause  the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entit)  to  inform  the  Borrower  of:  (i)  any  failure  by  any  party  to
any  of  the  Conven:ions  and  any  of  the  agreements  referred  to  in  Sections

-9-

IV.B.1(c)(i)(E),  P.B.I(c)(i)(H)  and  IV.B.1(c)(i)(I)  of  Schedule  2 
to  this
Agreement,  to perf )rm  any  of its obligations  under any  of such Conventions  and
agreements,  when  ;uch  default may  affect materially  and  adversely  the ability  of
the Borrower  and/<  r the  Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any
of  their  obligation;  under  this  Agreement,  or  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the
Project;  or  (ii)  an:,  failure  or  violation  by  any  such  party,  to  the  best  of  the
Borrower's  knowl  -dge,  of  any  law,  regulation,  decree,  or  order  that  could
reasonably  be  expe zted  to  materially  adversely  affect  the  violating  party's  ability
to  perform  its  obligations  under  any  of the  Conventions  and  any  applicable
agreement 
and
IV.B.1(c)(i)(I)  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower  shall  inform  the
Bank, and  shall  cai  ise  the  Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  to  inform the
Borrower,  of any  dispute involving  any  party  to  any  of the  Conventions  and  any
of  the  agreements  referred  to  in  Sections  IV.B.1(c)(i)(E),  IV.B.1(c)(i)(H)  and
IV.B.1(c)(i)(I)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  regarding  any  such
Conventions  and 
tgreements,  when  such  dispute  may  affect  materially  and
adversely 
the  Borrower  and/or 
the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entil y to  perform  any of their obligations  under this  Agreement,  or
to achieve  the objet tives of the Project

the  ab lity  of 

IV.B.1(c)(i)(E), 

IV.B.1(c)(i)(H) 

in  Sections 

referred 

to 

Not  later  than  nine  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  contract
an  independent  ve rification  expert  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  under  terms  of
reference  satisfactc ry  to  the  Bank,  to  carry  out  technical  audits  and  prepare  the
technical  audit  reports  regarding  the  implementation  of Part  L.A  and  Part  1.C  of
the  Project,  and  o  * the  Second  Plant  EPC  Contract  and  the  Third  Plant  EPC
Contract  referred tc  in  Section  II.B.3  of this  Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

Subsidiary  Loan Agreements

To  facilitate  the  c;.rrying  out  of  Part  1.A  of the  Project  by  the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementi ig  Entity,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time to  Category  1 of the  table  set forth  in  Section  IV.A.2
of this  Schedule  an i the  proceeds  of the  AfDB  Second  Plant  Co-financing  I, the
AfDB  Second  Plan  Co-financing  II, the  EIB  Second Plant  Co-financing,  and  the
KfW  Second  Pla it  Co-financing  available 
the  Second  Plant  Project
Implementing  Enti  y  as  a  loan  or  loans  under  one  or  more  subsidiary  loan
agreements  betwee  i  the  Borrower  and  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity,  under  tern s  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  ("Second  Plant
Subsidiary  Loan  A ;reements"),  including  the  commitments  of the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementi  ig  Entity  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement  and  the
right  of  the  Borrower  to  suspend  disbursements  under  such  Second  Plant
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  in  case  of  non-compliance  by  the  Second  Plant
Project Implementi  ig Entity.

to 

6. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

- 10  -

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant Project
Implementing  Entity  to  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Second  Plant  Subsidiary
Loan  Agreements  it  such  manner  as  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.
Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall:  (i)  not  assign,
abrogate  or waive at  y of the Second  Plant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  or any of
their respective  prov.sions;  and  (ii)  cause  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity  not to  assign, abrogate  or waive  any  of the  Second  Plant Subsidiary  Loan
Agreements  or  any c f their respective  provisions.  The  Borrower  shall  not amend,
and  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  not to  amend  any
of  the  Second  Plan:  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  or  any  of  their  respective
provisions  without  t ie  prior  approval  of the  Bank.  Such prior  approval  shall  be
deemed  to  have  bee  i  granted  by  the  Bank  in  the  absence  of response  from  the
Bank within  fifteen (15)  days  from the  date  on which  a request for prior  approval
shall  have  been com  nunicated  by the  Borrower to  the Bank.

To  facilitate the carr ting out of Part  L.C  of the Project  by  the Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entity  the Borrower  shall  make  the proceeds  of the  Loan allocated
from  time  to  time  tc  Category  2  of the  table  set  forth  in  Section  IV.A.2  of this
Schedule  and  the  pn oceeds  of the  AFD  Co-financing,  the  AfDB  Third  Plant  Co-
financing  I,  the  Afl)B  Third  Plant  Co-financing  II,  the  EIB  Third  Plant  Co-
financing,  and  the  HfW  Third  Plant  Co-financing  available  to  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementin,;  Entity as a  loan or  loans  under one or  more  subsidiary loan
agreements  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity,  under  term!  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  ("Third  Plant
Subsidiary  Loan  Ag reements"),  including  the  commitments  of the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementin )  Entity  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement  and  the
right  of  the  Borrower  to  suspend  disbursements  under  such  Third  Plant
Subsidiary  Loan  Alreements  in  case  of  non-compliance  by  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementin  ; Entity.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  shall  cause  the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  exercise  its  rights  under the  Third  Plant Subsidiary  Loan
Agreements  in  such: nanner  as to accomplish the purposes  of the  Loan. Except  as
the  Bank  shall  othei wise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall:  (i)  not  assign,  abrogate  or
waive  any  of  the  Third  Plant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  or  any  of  their
respective  provisiom;  and  (ii)  cause the  Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity
not  to  assign,  abro gate  or  waive  any  of  the  Third  Plant  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreements  or  any of their respective  provisions.  The  Borrower  shall  not amend,
and  shall  cause the  1 hird  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  not  to  amend  any  of
the Third  Plant Subs  diary  Loan  Agreements  or any  of their respective  provisions
without  the  prior  approval  of the  Bank.  Such  prior  approval  shall  be  deemed  to
have  been granted  b:  the Bank  in  the  absence  of response  from the  Bank within
fifteen  (15)  days  fro  n the  date  on  which  a  request  for  prior  approval  shall  have
been  communicated  )y the Borrower  to the Bank.

- 11 -

C. 

Anti-Corruption

D. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  (i)  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with
the provisions  of thi  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;  and (ii)  cause the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  to
ensure  that  the  Pro  ect  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Anti-Corruption Gu  delines.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  sha  1:  (i)  maintain  within  the  Project  Management  Unit,  an
environmental  and  ocial  safeguards  unit,  including  an  environmental  and  social
safeguard  coordina  or  with  terms  of  reference  and  qualifications,  budget  and
material  support  ad equate  to  supervise  the  implementation  of, and  compliance
with  the  FESIA;  arid  (ii)  cause  each  of the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity  and the  Thin  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  to establish  and  maintain
an  environmental  a rd  social  unit  adequate  to  supervise  the  preparation  of  the
relevant  SESIAs,  Jurther  implement  the  relevant  SESMP  and  report  to  the
Borrower  on  imple nentation  of  all  mitigation  measures,  including  health  and
safety.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  of the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity
and  the  Third  Pla it  Project  Implementing  Entity:  (i)  not  to  authorize  any
commencement  of  civil  works  to  build  the  Second  Plant  or  Third  Plant,  as
applicable,  before  he  relevant  SESIA  is  prepared,  adopted  and  disclosed  in
accordance  with  the  FESIA;  (ii) 
to  disclose  all  relevant  safeguard-related
documentation  regE rding  Part  I  of  the  Project,  including  the  SESIAs;  (iii)  to
construct  and  oper ite  the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant  at  all  times  in
compliance  with  th,- relevant  SESIAs  and  the  Plant-site  LAPs;  and  (iv)  not  to
amend,  suspend,  a] rogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of  the  SESIAs,  the
Plant-site  LAPs  or  any  Associated  Facility  ESIAs,  if applicable,  without  prior
consultation  with,  and approval  of the Bank.

The  Borrower  shal  :  (i)  disclose  all  relevant  safeguard-related  documentation
regarding  Part  1 of  :he  Project,  including  the  Common  Infrastructure  ESIAs,  the
SESIAs,  the  SESMPs,  and  any  mitigation  measures  and/or  environmental
management  plans,  as  appropriate,  for  any  of  the  Second  Plant  Associated
Facilities  and  Thin  Plant  Associated  Facilities;  (ii)  construct  and  operate  the
Second  Plant  and  t ie  Third  Plant  at  all  times  in  compliance  with  the  relevant
Common  Infrastructure  ESIAs  and  the  Plant-site  LAPs;  and  (iii)  not  amend,
suspend,  abrogate,  iepeal  or  waive  any  provision  of the  Common  Infrastructure
ESIAs  or the Plant-! ite LAPs  without prior  consultation  with,  and approval  of the
Bank.

- 12  -

4. 

5. 

s hall: 

(i)  cause  Associated  Facilities  ESIAs 

The  Borrower 
including
environmental  mar agement  plans  for  any  Second  Plant Associated  Facilities  and
any Third  Plant As ;ociated  Facilities  to  be developed  in  a manner  consistent with
the  provisions  of  the  FESIA;  (ii)  provide  the  Bank  with  the  relevant  draft
Associated  Faciliti ,s  ESIA  for  its  comments  and  feedback  on  such  documents;
and  (iii)  inform the  Bank  about the  status  of the  preparation  and  adoption  of the
final  Associated  Yacilities  ESIA,  including  any  mitigation  measures  and/or
environmental  mal  agement  plan  as  appropriate,  for  any  of  such  Second  Plant
Associated  Facilitics  or the  Third Plant  Associated Facilities.

The Borrower  shal  ensure that due  diligence  is carried  out to  assess  any  need  for
land  acquisition  an d/or  involuntary  resettlement  for a  particular  activity  prior  to
commencing  civil  works  for  such  activity.  In  case  land  acquisition  and/or
involuntary  resettl.ment  would  be  required  for  any  Second  Plant  Associated
Facilities  or the  Th rd  Plant Associated  Facilities  or  for any  activity related  to the
Second  Plant or the  Third Plant, the  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

ensure 
thz t  LAPs  be  prepared  either:  (i)  in  case  of  involuntary
resettlemet  t,  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  and  procedures  set
forth  in  tht  RPF;  or  (ii)  in  case  of voluntary  land  acquisition,  including
supporting  documentary  evidence  proving  the  voluntary  nature  of  the
transaction

provide  th - Bank  with  copies  of  such  LAPs  for 
concurrenc:  before the  commencement  of any  related civil  works;

its  review  and

ensure  thai  prior  to  commencing  civil  works  for  the  relevant  Second
Plant  Associated  Facility,  Third  Plant  Associated  Facility,  or  any
relevant  activity  related  to  the  Second  Plant  or  to  the  Third  Plant,  all
resettlemer  t  measures  set  forth  in  the  relevant  LAP  in  relation  to  the
specific  ci- il  work  shall  have  been  fully  executed,  including  the  full
payment  of  compensation;  and

(d) 

in  case  of  involuntary  land  acquisition,  ensure  that  such  LAPs  are
adopted an  I disclosed by the relevant  parties.

6. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that:  (i) the  Second Plant Associated  Facilities and the
Third  Plant Associ  ted  Facilities  shall  be  constructed,  operated  and  implemented
in  accordance  wit i  the  RPF,  the  Associated  Facility  ESIAs  (including  any
mitigation  measui es  and/or  environmental  management  plans),  and 
the
Associated  Facility  LAPs,  as  applicable;  and  (ii)  no  provision  of the  RPF,  the
Associated  Facilil!y  ESIAs 
and/or
environmental  mar agement  plans),  and  the  Associated  Facility  LAPs,  shall  be
amended,  suspendc d,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  without  prior  consultation
with,  and approval  )f the Bank.

any  mitigation  measures 

(including 

7. 

8. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

- 13  -

The  Borrower  shall  (i)  cause  each  of the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity  and the  Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  to prepare  and  submit to
the  Borrower  an  en vironmental  and  social  management  report  on  a  bi-annual
basis  during  the  con;truction  of the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant,  and on  an
annual  basis  during  operation  of the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant;  and  (ii)
include  a  summary  )f such  reports  in  the  Project  Reports  referred  to  in  Section
II.A  of this  Scheduk  2.

Not  later than  six  (6  months  after  the  Effective  Date, the  Borrower  shall  prepare
a  progress  report  on  the  implementation  of the  SDP  and  provide  such  report  to
the Bank  for its com  nents and  recommendations.

Section  II. 

Project Montitoring Reportina and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  :ause  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and the
Third  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of
Part  L.A  of the Proje:zt  and  Part  1.C  of the  Project,  respectively,  shall monitor  and
evaluate  the  progre! s  of  Part  2  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and on
the basis of indicatoi s  acceptable to the Bank. Each Project  Report  shall  cover the
period  of one  calend ir  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to the Bank  not later than
forty-five  (45)  after i he end  of the period  covered  by  such report.

Financial  Managen  ent, Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordar  ce  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  )repare  and  furnish to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)
days  after  the  end  o  'each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for  the  Project  cove -ing  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

With  respect  to  eac. i  withdrawal  application  under  Category  (1), 
the  Borrower
shall  prepare  and fur mish  to the  Bank an  interim unaudited  financial  report for the
Project  covering  the  time  period agreed  with the  Bank,  in  a  form  and  substance
agreed  by  the  Born  wer  and  the  Bank.  Each  such  interim  unaudited  financial
report  shall  include  he technical  audit report,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory
to the  Bank,  to be  p -epared by  the  independent  verification  expert  referred  to  in
Section  I.A.6  of thi;  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  Each  such  technical  audit
report  shall  be  focus ed  in  particular  on:  (i) the  achievement  of the  milestones  set

- 14  -

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

forth  in  the  Seco id  Plant  EPC  Contract;  and  (ii)  compliance  with  pricing
provisions set forth  in the  Second Plant  EPC  Contract.

With  respect  to  ea  h  withdrawal  application  under  Category  (2),  the  Borrower
shall  prepare  and  fi rnish to  the Bank  an interim  unaudited  financial  report for the
Project  covering  the  time  period  agreed  with  the  Bank,  in  a  form  and  substance
agreed  by  the  Bor -ower  and  the  Bank.  Each  such  interim  unaudited  financial
report  shall  includc 
the technical  audit  report,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  to  be  )repared  by  the  independent  verification  expert  referred  to  in
Section  I.A.6  of tf is  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  Each  such  technical  audit
report shall  be  foci sed  in  particular  on:  (i)  the  achievement  of the  milestones  set
forth  in  the  Thin I  Plant  EPC  Contract;  and  (ii)  compliance  with  pricing
provisions  set forth in  the Third  Plant EPC  Contract.

to 

With respect  to eac i withdrawal application  under Categories  (3),  (4)  and (5),  the
Borrower  shall  pre care  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  an  interim  unaudited  financial
report  for  the  Projt ct  covering  the  time  period  agreed  with the  Bank,  in  a  form
and  substance  agi eed  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank.  Each  such  interim
unaudited  financial  report  shall  include  a  report, 
in  form  and  substance
satisfactory 
independent  verification  expert,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
certifying that  the a mount  of the  relevant  Solar Incremental  Cost is correct  as  per
the  provisions  of  tie  First  Plant  Power  Purchase  Agreement,  the  Second  Plant
Power Purchase AE reement  or the Third  Plant Power Purchase Agreement,  as  the
case  may be,  the  Fi -st Plant  Power  Sale  Agreement,  the  Second  Plant Power  Sale
Agreement  or  the  Third  Plant  Power  Sale  Agreement,  as  the  case  may  be,  the
Conventions  and at y  other relevant  document.

the  Bank,  prepared  by  an 

The Borrower  shall  have  its Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Sect on  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statemen:s  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank not later than  six  months  after the end of such period.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the
Third  Plant  Projec  Implementing  Entity  to  maintain  a  financial  management
system  and  prepare  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
accounting  standar  s acceptable  to  the  Bank, both  in a manner  adequate to  reflect
the  operations  and  'inancial condition  of the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity  and  the Thin I Plant Project  Implementing  Entity, including  the operations,
resources  and expei  ditures related to  the Project.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and the
Third  Plant  Proje  t  Implementing  Entity  to  have  their  financial  statements
referred  to  in  paral raph  7  above  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to

- 15-

the  Bank,  in  accorc ance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable
to the  Bank.  Each a  idit of these financial  statements  shall  cover the period  of one
fiscal  year  of the  S  ,cond  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementii  ig Entity.  The Borrower  shall  cause  the  Second  Plant Project
Implementing  Entit i  and  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure
that the  audited  fine  ncial statements  for each period  shall  be:  (a)  furnished  to the
Borrower  for  transmission  to the  Bank not  later than  six  (6)  months  after  the end
of the period;  and  (1) made  publicly available  in  a timely fashion and  in  a manner
acceptable  to the  BE nk.

Section  III. 

Procureme at

General

A. 

1 .

2. 

B. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for  Part  1.A  and  Part  1.C  of the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of the 1roceeds  of the Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with the
requirements  set  foi th or  referred to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
and with the provisi  ns  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurem,-nt  methods  or  methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular
contracts,  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement
Guidelines.

Particular Methot  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

Procurement  unler  Public  Private  Partnership  Arrangements: 
the
entrepreneurs  respo isible  for  the development  of the  Second  Plant  and  the Third
Plant shall  be  selec  ed through  open  competitive  bidding procedures  determined
acceptable  by the B  ink in accordance  with paragraph  3.14 (a)  of the  Procurement
Guidelines.

C. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  contract  for  the  selection  of  the  entrepreneurs 
responsible  for  the
development  of  the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant  referred  in  Section  III.B
above  shall  be  subjc ct to  the Bank's  Prior Review.

- 16  -

Section  IV.  Withdraw:il of Loan  Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  ma)  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Artizle  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  fr  m  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuar t to  such instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth in the table  in paragraph  2 below.

The following  tabb  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Lo,  n  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works 
non- 

and 
consulting 
services 
for
Part  L.A  of the
Project

(2)  Goods,  works 
non- 

and 
consulting 
services 
for
Part  1.C  of the
Project
(3)  Purchase 
of 
electricity 
for 
Part  2.A  of the
Project
(4)  Purchase 
of 
electricity 
for 
Part  2.B  of the
Project

A mount  of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(-xpressed  in 
EUR)
10,339,000 

Amount  of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

13,766,000 

3.2%  up to June  30),
2015, 
and 
7.5%
afterwards

18,267,000 

6,234,000 

54,993,000 

18,767,000 

71,276,000 

24,324,000 

1.9%  up to  June  30,
2015, 
and 
4.5%
afterwards

100%  of  the  Solar
Incremental  Cost

100%  of  the  Solar
Incremental  Cost

- 17  -

25,597,000 

8,709,000 

586,000 

200,000 

(5)  Purchase 
of 
electricity 
for 
Part  2.C  of the
Project

(6)  Front-end  Fee 

100%  of  the  Solar
Incremental  Cost

Amount 
payable
pursuant  to  Section
2.03 
of 
this
Agreement 
in
accordance 
with
Section  2.07  (b)  of
the 
General
Conditions

(7)  Unallocated 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT

2 3,442,000 
234,500,000 

8,000,000
80,000,000

(a) 

For the  purposes  of  2ategory  (3),  the  Solar  Incremental  Cost shall  be  calculated
as follows:

Sc  lar Incremental  Cost = (A  - B)  - C

"A"  shall  be  equal  to the  am :unt  paid  for  a  specific  quantity  of electricity  bought by  the
Borrower  from  the  First Plai it  Project  Implementing  Entity  pursuant  to the  provisions  of
the First  Plant Power Purcha .e Agreement;

"B"  shall  be  equal  to  the  am nount  received  by  the  Borrower  from  ONEE  for  the  same
quantity  of electricity pursua  it to the provisions  of the First  Plant  Power  Sale  Agreement;
and

"C"  shall  be  equal  to  the  ar iount  of the  contribution,  if any,  received  by  the  Borrower
from  the  Kingdom  of Mor  cco  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of the  First  Plant  Specific
Convention to compensate  ft r the price difference  between  "A" and  "B".

(b) 

For the  purposes  of category  (4),  the  Solar  Incremental  Cost  shall  be  calculated
as follows:

Sc  lar Incremental  Cost =  (A  - B)  - C

"A" shall  be  equal  to  the  amount  paid  for  a  specific  quantity  of electricity  bought  by  the
Borrower  from  the  Second  I lant  Project  Implementing  Entity  pursuant  to  the  provisions
of the  Second Plant  Power P  irchase  Agreement;

- 18 -

"B"  shall  be  equal  to  the  a mount  received  by  the  Borrower  from  ONEE  for  the  same
quantity  of  electricity  pur ;uant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Second  Plant  Power  Sale
Agreement;  and

"C"  shall  be  equal  to  the  a nount  of the  contribution,  if any,  received  by  the  Borrower
from  the  Kingdom  of Mor(cco  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of the  Second  Plant  Specific
Convention to compensate  f )r  the price  difference  between  "A" and  "B".

(c) 

For the  purposes  of  Category  (5),  the  Solar  Incremental  Cost  shall  be  calculated
as follows:

Solar Incremental  Cost = (A - B)  - C

"A"  shall  be  equal  to  the  am ount  paid  for  a  specific  quantity  of electricity  bought  by  the
Borrower  from the  Third  P  nt  Project  Implementing  Entity  pursuant  to the  provisions  of
the  Third Plant Power Purcl  ase  Agreement;

"B"  shall  be  equal  to  the  amount  received  by  the  Borrower  from  ONEE  for  the  same
quantity  of  electricity  puisuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Third  Plant  Power  Sale
Agreement;  and

"C"  shall  be  equal  to  the  a  nount  of the  contribution,  if any,  received  by  the  Borrower
from  the  Kingdom  of Morocco  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of the  Third  Plant  Specific
Convention to compensate  f )r the  price difference  between  "A" and  "B".

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  tht  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawah  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  E46,900,000  and
$16,000,000  may  be made  for payments  made  prior  to this  date  but  on or
after  Januaiy  15,  2015,  for  Eligible  Expenditures  under  Categories  (1)
and (2);  or

(b) 

under Category  (1),  until:

(i) 

evi(.ence  satisfactory  to the  Bank has  been  furnished  to the  Bank
thal  the following  conditions  have  been satisfied:

(A) 

The  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  been
legally established  in  a manner satisfactory  to the  Bank.

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

(E) 

(F) 

(G) 

(H) 

- 19  -

The  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  has
established  an  accounting  and  financial  management
system  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  has
adopted  the  Second  Plant  Financial  Management  and
Disbursement  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  the
Co-financiers.

The  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  has
adopted 
the  Second  Plant  Governance  Framework,
satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Second  Plant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have
been executed  on behalf of the  Borrower  and the  Second
Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  all  conditions
precedent  to  their  effectiveness  and  to  the  right  of the
Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  make
withdrawals  under them  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of
this Agreement)  have  been  satisfied  or waived.

All  conditions  precedent  to  the  right  of the  Borrower  to
make  withdrawals  under  Category  (1)  in  the  table  in
Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  the  CTF  Loan  Agreement
have  been satisfied  or waived.

The  Borrower  and 
entered  into the  Second Plant  Specific  Convention.

the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  have

Execution  and  satisfaction  or  waiver  of  all  conditions
precedent 
to 
the  effectiveness  and, 
the  extent
applicable, 
to  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make
withdrawals  under them  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of
this Agreement),  of all the  following  agreements:

to 

1. 

2. 

3. 

the 
AfDB 
Agreements;

Second 

Plant  Co-financing

the  EC  Second Plant  Co-financing Agreement;

the  EIB  Second  Plant  Co-financing  Agreement;
and

4. 

the KfW  Second Plant  Co-financing  Agreement.

- 20 -

(I) 

to 

to 

Execution  and  satisfaction  or  waiver  of  all  conditions
precedent 
the  effectiveness  and, 
the  extent
applicable,  to  the  right of the  Borrower  or of the  Second
Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  make  withdrawals
under 
the  effectiveness  of  this
Agreement),  of  all  other  agreements, 
to  be  found
satisfactory  by  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  within
reasonable time,  required  to  finance,  construct,  own,  and
operate the  Second  Plant, including,  but not  limited to:

them  (other 

than 

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

the Second  Plant  EPC Contract;

the  Second  Plant  Operation  and  Maintenance
Agreement;

the  Second  Plant Power  Purchase  Agreement;

the Second  Plant Power  Sale  Agreement;  and

the  Second  Plant  Shareholders'  Agreement.

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Tht  Bank  has  been  furnished  with  opinions  satisfactory  to  the
Bai k  of  counsels  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  showing  that  the
Second  Plant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been  duly
aut Aorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Second  Plant
Pro  ect  Implementing  Entity,  and  are  legally  binding  upon  the
Boirower  and  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  in
acc )rdance with their terms.

The  Bank  has  been  furnished  with  opinions  satisfactory  to  the
Bai  k  of counsels  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  showing  that  each  of
the  agreements  referred  to  in  paragraph  (b)(iXI)  above  has  been
dul  / authorized  or  ratified  by  each  of the  parties  thereto,  and  is
legu lly  binding  upon  each  of  the  parties  thereto  in  accordance
wit i its terms.

The  Borrower  shall  have  provided  to  the  Bank,  with  respect  to
eac i  withdrawal  application, 
the  relevant  interim  unaudited
fim ncial  report for the  Project,  including  the report  referred  to in
Section  II.B.3  of this  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  in  form  and
sub ;tance satisfactory  to the  Bank.

(c) 

under Catel ory (2),  until:

-21  -

(i) 

evi  lence  satisfactory  to the Bank  has  been  furnished  to  the Bank
tha  the  following  conditions have  been satisfied;

(A 

(B) 

(C) 

(D, 

(E) 

(F) 

(G) 

(H) 

The  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  been
legally established  in  a manner  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Third  Plant  Project 
Implementing  Entity  has
established  an  accounting  and  financial  management
system  satisfactory to  the Bank.

The  Third  Plant  Project 
Implementing  Entity  has
adopted  the  Third  Plant  Financial  Management  and
Disbursement  Manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  the
Co-financiers.

The  Third  Plant  Project 
adopted 
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Implementing  Entity  has
the  Third  Plant  Governance  Framework,

The  Third  Plant  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been
executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower  and  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementing  Entity  and all  conditions precedent
to  their  effectiveness  and  to  the  right  of the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementing  Entity  to  make  withdrawals  under
them  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of  this  Agreement)
have  been satisfied  or waived.

All  conditions  precedent  to  the  right of the  Borrower  to
make  withdrawals  under  Category  (2)  in  the  table  in
Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  the  CTF  Loan  Agreement
have been  satisfied or waived.

The  Borrower  and  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  have
entered  into the Third  Plant Specific  Convention.

Execution  and  satisfaction  or  waiver  of  all  conditions
precedent 
to 
the  effectiveness  and, 
the  extent
applicable, 
to  the  right  of  the  Borrower 
to  make
withdrawals  under  them  (other  than  the  effectiveness  of
this  Agreement),  of all  the following  agreements:

to 

1. 

2. 

the AFD  Co-financing  Agreement;

the AfDB  Third Plant Co-financing  Agreements;

- 22  -

the  EC Third  Plant Co-financing  Agreement;

the  EIB  Third  Plant  Co-financing  Agreement;
and

the KfW  Third Plant Co-financing  Agreement.

(I) 

to 

to 

Execution  and  satisfaction  or  waiver  of all  conditions
precedent 
the  effectiveness  and, 
the  extent
applicable,  to  the  right  of the  Borrower  or  of the  Third
Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  make  withdrawals
under 
the  effectiveness  of  this
Agreement),  of  all  other  agreements, 
found
satisfactory  by  the  Bank  in  form  and  substance  within
reasonable  time,  required to  finance,  construct,  own,  and
operate the  Third Plant,  including, but not limited to:

them  (other 

to  be 

than 

the  Third Plant EPC Contract;

the  Third  Plant  Operation  and  Maintenance
Agreement;

the Third  Plant Power Purchase  Agreement;

the Third Plant  Power  Sale  Agreement;  and

the  Third Plant Shareholders'  Agreement.

3. 

4. 

5. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The  Bank  has  been  furnished  with  opinions  satisfactory  to  the
Bar k of counsels  acceptable  to the  Bank, showing  that the  Third
Plat Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have been duly  authorized  or
ratii led  by 
the  Third  Plant  Project
Imr lementing  Entity,  and  are  legally binding  upon the  Borrower
and  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance
wit!  their terms.

the  Borrower  and 

The  Bank  has  been  furnished  with  opinions  satisfactory  to  the
Bank  of counsels  acceptable  to the  Bank,  showing  that  each  of
the  agreements  referred  to  in  paragraph  (c)(i)(I)  above  has  been
dul)  authorized  or  ratified  by  each  of the  parties  thereto,  and  is
legz Ily  binding  upon  each  of the  parties  thereto  in  accordance
witl  its terms.

(iv) 

The  Borrower  shall  have  provided  to  the  Bank,  with  respect  to
eacl  withdrawal  application,  the  relevant 
interim  unaudited

- 23  -

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

fin mcial  report for the  Project,  including  the report  referred  to in
Se'tion  II.B.4  of this  Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  in  form  and
sulbstance  satisfactory to the Bank.

under  Category  (3),  until  the  Borrower  shall  have  provided  to the  Bank:
(i)  evidence  satisfactory 
is  fully
commissio  ied  and  operational;  and  (ii) with  respect  to  each  withdrawal
application 
report  for  the
Project,  in,  luding  the  report  from  the  independent  verification  expert
referred to  n Section  II.B.5  of this  Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

to  the  Bank  that  the  First  Plant 

interim  unaudited  financial 

the  relevant 

under  Category  (4),  until the  Borrower  shall  have  provided  to the  Bank:
(i)  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the  Second  Plant  is  fully
commissioi ied  and  operational;  and  (ii)  with  respect  to  each  withdrawal
application 
the  relevant  interim  unaudited  financial  report  for  the
Project,  including  the  report  from  the  independent  verification  expert
referred to  n Section  II.B.5  of this  Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

under  Cate ;ory  (5),  until  the  Borrower  shall  have provided  to the  Bank:
(i)  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the  Third  Plant 
is  fully
commissio  ied  and  operational;  and  (ii) with respect  to each  withdrawal
application 
interim  unaudited  financial  report  for  the
Project,  in(luding  the  report  from  the  independent  verification  expert
referred to  n Section II.B.5  of this  Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

the  relevant 

2. 

The  Closing Date i,  June 30,  2020.

Section  V. 

Other Undertakin2s

A. 

B. 

Except  as  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Bank,  the  Borrower's  Equity  shall  remain
positive  on  a  yearl,  basis  commencing  with  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  2015,  as
evidenced  by the  Borrower's yearly audited  financial  statements.

Not  later  than the  e id  of each  fiscal  year  commencing  with  the  Borrower's  fiscal
year 2015,  the  Borr>wer  shall  furnish to the  Bank a copy  of the business plan  and
financial  projectiors  (which  shall  include  projected  consolidated  balance  sheet,
income  statement  aiid  cash flow  statement),  of the  Borrower  and  its  subsidiaries
for  each upcoming  iscal year,  as  adopted  by  the  Management  Board  (Directoire)
of the Borrower  and  prepared  in accordance  with  consistently  applied accounting
standards  acceptab  e  to  the  Bank,  in  a  form  and  substance  agreed  by  the
Borrower  and the B ank.

- 24  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

2. 

3. 

4. 

Subject  to  the  prov  sions  of paragraph  2  of this  Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall
repay  each  Disbun ed  Amount  in  semiannual  installments  payable  on  each
January  I and  July  1, the  first  installment to  be  payable  on the  twentieth  (20th)
Interest  Payment  ID ate  following  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed
Amount  and  the  las  installment  to  be  payable  on the  thirty-sixth  (36th)  Interest
Payment  Date  follo wing  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed  Amount.
Each  installment  ex, ept  for the  last  one  shall  be  equal  to  one-seventeenth  (1/17)
of the  Disbursed  A  nount.  The  last  installment  shall  be  equal  to  the  remaining
outstanding  amount  of the  Disbursed Amount.

If  any  one  or  more  installments  of  principal  of  the  Disbursed  Amount  would,
pursuant  to  the  prc visions  of paragraph  I  of this  Schedule,  be  payable  after
January  1, 2037,  the  Borrower  shall  also  pay  on  such date  the  aggregate  amount
of all  such installme  its.

The  Bank  shall  not  fy  the  Loan  Parties  of the  amortization  schedule  for  each
Disbursed  Amount  aromptly  after  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for  the  Disbursed
Amount.

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  1 through 3 of this  Schedule,  in  the
event  of a  Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of a  Disbursed  Amount  to
an  Approved  Curreticy,  the  amount  so converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that
is repayable  on  an)  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  de!ermined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomii iation  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  ieflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  i'the  Bank so  determines  in accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exch inge rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Lc  an Balance  is  denominated  in more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of thi; Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the amount  denominated
in  each Loan  Curren,-y.

-25-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

"AFD  Co-financier"  means  Agence  Franqaise de  Diveloppement,  the  French
Development Agent y, referred to in the Appendix to the  Standard  Conditions.

"AFD  Co-financing'  means  an  amount of EUR  50  million to be  provided  to the
Borrower  by the AF)  Co-financier to assist in financing  Part  1.C  of the Project.

"AFD  Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the agreement  to be entered  into between
the Borrower  and th.  AFD  Co-financier  providing  for the AFD  Co-financing.

"AfDB  Co-financie  "  means  African  Development  Bank,  referred  to  in  the
Appendix to the  Stai idard  Conditions.

"AfDB  Second  Plan:  Co-financing  Agreements"  means  the two agreements  to  be
entered  into  betweei ithe  Borrower  and  the  AfDB  Co-financier  providing  for  the
AfDB  Second  Plant Co-financing  I and  the AfDB  Second  Plant  Co-financing  II,
respectively.

"AfDB  Second Plan t Co-financing  I" means  an amount  of EUR  72  million to  be
provided  to  the  Bor -ower by  the  AfDB  Co-financier  to  assist  in  financing  Part
L.A  of the  Project.

"AfDB  Second  Plan: Co-financing  II" means  an amount  of EUR  50 million to be
provided to  the  Bor -ower by  the  AfDB  Co-financier  acting  as  an  implementing
entity of the Clean  I echnology  Fund to assist in financing  Part L.A  of the Project.

"AfDB  Third  Plant  Co-financing  Agreements"  means  the  two  agreements  to  be
entered  into  betweein  the  Borrower  and  the AfDB  Co-financier  providing  for the
AfDB  Third  Plant 
.o-financing  I and  the  AfDB  Third  Plant  Co-financing  II,
respectively.

"AfDB  Third  Plant  Co-financing  I" means  an  amount  of EUR  28  million  to  be
provided  to  the  Bor -ower by  the  AfDB  Co-financier  to  assist  in  financing  Part
L.C  of the  Project.

"AfDB  Third Plant  Co-financing  II" means  an amount  of EUR  37.5  million to  be
provided  to the  Bor  ower  by  the  AfDB  Co-financier  acting  as  an  implementing
entity of the Clean  Technology  Fund to assist in  financing  Part 1.C  of the Project.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  ar d Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006,  and revised in  January 2011.

- 26  -

12. 

13. 

(a) 

incl iding 

the  environmental 

includi  ig  monitoring 

"Associated  Facili  y  Environmental  and  Social  Assessments"  or  "Associated
Facility  ESIAs"  means  collectively: 
and  social
management  plan  dated  March  19,  2014,  describing  all  processes,  rules,
principles 
and  evaluation,  public  disclosure  and
consultation, 
environmental
management  plan!  applicable 
intake  facility;  and
(b) the  Ouarzazatt -Tazzart  Transmission  Line  EIA;  such  Associated  Facility
ESIAs 
to  be  fur  her  disclosed  and  maintained  publicly  available  on  the
Borrower's  website  through  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  and  as  the
Associated  Facility ESIAs  may  be  amended  from time  to time  after  consultation
with, and  with the  rior approval  of the  Bank.

any  mitigation  measures 

to  the  Project's  water 

and/or 

"Associated  Facilil y  Land  Acquisition  Plans"  or  "Associated  Facility  LAPs"
means  collectively 
(a)  the  Land  Acquisition  Plan  for  the  water  intake  facility
adopted  and  disclo;ed  by  the  Borrower  on  March  19,  2014;  and  (b) any  other
LAPs,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be  prepared,  adopted  and  disclosed  in  the
Kingdom  of Morocco  in  accordance  with  Section  I.D.5  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement  and  furl her  implemented  by  the  relevant  party  in  order  to acquire the
land  needed  for  the  purpose  of Parts  1.B  or  1.D  of the  Project,  that  are  either:
(i) in  the case  of im oluntary  land acquisition,  in compliance  with the terms of the
Resettlement  Polic)  Framework;  or  (ii) in  the case  of voluntary  land  acquisition,
providing  evidence  of the  voluntary  nature  of the  transaction,  including,  among
other  items:  (A)  the  description  of the  land to be  acquired  and  actually  acquired,
including  a  map;  (1) the  applicable  legal  framework  for  land  acquisition  for the
purpose  of Parts  1.11  or  1.D  of the  Project;  (C) the  process  followed  for the  land
acquisition  includir g consultation  of affected  communities,  local,  provincial  and
national  authorities,  and  formal agreement  of relevant  parties  on land  acquisition;
(D)  payment  of  c ampensation;  (E)  the  grievance  mechanisms  available  to
affected  communiti ts;  and  (F)  the monitoring  of mitigation  measures,  evaluation
and disclosure  procsses.

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

"Basic  Legislation"  means  the  Law  No.  57-09  of the  Kingdom  of Morocco  as
promulgated  pursuLnt  to  the  Law  ("Dahir")  No.  1.10-18  of  the  Kingdom  of
Morocco,  dated  Fe  ruary  11,  2010,  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  has  been
established  and is o  )erating as a commercial  company  (socijtd anonyme).

"Category"  means  ,  category  set forth  in  the table in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule
2 to this Agreement

"Co-financiers"  mt ans  the  AFD  Co-financier,  AfDB  Co-financier,  EC  Co-
financier, EIB  Co-fi nancier  and  KfW  Co-financier.

"Common  Infrastruzture  ESIAs"  means  collectively:  (i) the  environmental  and
social  assessment  for  the  common  infrastructure,  including  the  water  storage,
(ICESIA)  adopted  z nd  disclosed  by the  Borrower  on February  11,  2013;  and  (ii)

- 27  -

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

any other environnimtal  and  social  assessment to be  carried  out by  the  Borrower
for any  common in  rastructure  for Parts  1.A  or  1.C  of the Project.

"Conventions"  me  ns  the  General  Convention, 
Convention,  the  Th rd Plant Specific  Convention  and the Tripartite Convention.

the  Second  Plant  Specific

"CTF  Loan  Agreei ment"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  the
World  Bank  acting  as  an implementing  entity  of the  Clean  Technology  Fund,  for
Part  L.A  and  Part  I C of the Project,  of the same  date  as  this Agreement,  as  such
agreement  may  be emended  from  time to time.  "CTF Loan  Agreement"  includes
all  appendices,  sc iedules  and  agreements  supplemental 
to  the  CTF  Loan
Agreement.

"Displaced  Person'  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project,  has experie  iced or would  experience  direct economic  and  social  impacts
caused  by:  (a) the  ii voluntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i) relocation  or  loss of
shelter;  (ii) loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or
means  of livelihooc,  whether  or  not such  person  must move  to another  location;
or  (b) the  involun ary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and
protected  areas, rest lting  in adverse  impacts  on the  livelihood  of such person.

"EC Co-financier"  neans the  European  Commission, referred  to in the Appendix
to the  Standard  Con litions.

"EC  Second  Plant  Co-financing"  means  an  amount  of  EUR  40  million  to  be
provided  to 
the  Lorrower  as  a  grant  by  the  EC  Co-financier  under  its
Neighborhood  Inve  tment  Facility  to  assist  in  financing  Part  L.A  of the  Project,
including  through  1 he  financing  of the  Borrower's  share  of the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementir  g Entity'  equity  interest.

"EC Second  Plant Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement to  be  entered
into  between the  Bc rrower and  the  EC  Co-financier providing  for the  EC Second
Plant Co-financing.

"EC  Third  Plant  C o-financing"  means  an  amount  of  EUR  50  million  to  be
provided 
to  the  L orrower  as  a  grant  by  the  EC  Co-financier  under  its
Neighborhood  Inve: tment  Facility to  assist  in  financing  Part  1.C  of the  Project,
including  through  he  financing  of  the  Borrower's  share  of  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implementir  g Entity'  equity  interest.

"EC  Third  Plant  C-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered
into  between  the  B  rrower  and  the  EC  Co-financier  providing  for  the  EC  Third
Plant Co-financing.

- 28  -

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

"EIB  Co-financier"  means  European  Investment  Bank,  referred  to 
Appendix  to the  Sta:idard  Conditions.

in  the

"EIB  Second  Plant  Co-financing"  means  an  amount  of EUR  254  million  to  be
provided  to the  Bor -ower by  the  EIB  Co-financier  to assist in  financing  Part  L.A
of the Project.

"EIB  Second  Plant 
io-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be entered
into  between  the  Forrower  and  the  EIB  Co-financier  providing  for  the  EIB
Second  Plant Co-fir ancing.

"EIB  Third  Plant  Co-financing"  means  an  amount  of EUR  96  million  to  be
provided  to the  Bor -ower by  the  EIB  Co-financier  to assist  in  financing  Part  1.C
of the  Project.

"EIB  Third  Plant  C >financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered
into  between  the  Bc rrower  and the  EIB  Co-financier providing  for the  EIB  Third
Plant  Co-financing.

"Equity"  means  the  sum  of equity  contributions  (paid-up  capital  and  premium
paid  in  relation  to  i;sued  shares,  share  contributions,  and  mergers),  revaluation
adjustments,  reserve  s,  net  result  carried  forward  (debtor  and  creditor),  retained
earnings  (including 
investment  subsidies  and
regulated  provisions,

the  current  year  net  result), 

"First  Plant"  mean;  the  concentrated  solar  parabolic  trough  facility  for  the
generation  of electi icity  of  a  capacity  up  to  160  megawatt  gross  at  a  2,500
hectare  site  located  10  kilometers  northeast  of  the  city  of  Ouarzazate  in  the
Kingdom of Morocco,  to be  constructed  under Part  L.A  of the  First Plant Project.

"First  Plant  Associited  Facilities"  means  those  facilities  and  infrastructures,
including  but not  lir tited to those  to be  built  and operated  for the purposes  of:  (i)
providing water  for  he operation  of the First  Plant;  and (ii)  transporting  power to
and from the  First P  ant through transmission  lines.

"First  Plant  CTF  L,oan  Agreement"  means  the  Clean  Technology  Fund  Loan
Agreement  for  the  )uarzazate  I Concentrated  Solar  Power  Plant  Project  (CTF
Loan  Number  TFO  0916)  dated  December  7, 2011,  between  the  World  Bank
acting  as  an  impk menting  entity  of  the  Clean  Technology  Fund,  and  the
Borrower.

"First  Plant Power  Purchase  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  dated  November
19,  2012,  as  amenc  ed,  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  the  First  Plant
Project  Implementir g Entity for the  sale  by the  First  Plant  Project  Implementing

- 29  -

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

Entity,  and  the  pur.hase  by  the  Borrower,  of electricity  generated  from the  First
Plant  in accordance  with  its terms  and conditions.

"First  Plant  Power  Sale  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  dated  November  19,
2012,  as  amended,  entered  into  between the Borrower  and  ONEE  for the  sale by
the  Borrower,  and  the  purchase  by  ONEE,  of electricity  and  energy  generated
from the First  Plant  in accordance  with  its terms and  conditions.

"First  Plant Project'  means  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to the  First  Plant
CTF Loan  Agreem(nt.

"First  Plant Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  company  established  under
the  laws  of the  Ki igdom  of Morocco  by  the  Borrower  and  the  competitively
selected  partner to  levelop  the  First  Plant to be  constructed  under Part  L.A  of the
First Plant Project.

"First  Plant  Specifii  Convention"  means  the  convention  dated  May  8, 2013,  as
into  between  the  Kingdom  of  morocco  and  the  borrower
amended,  entered 
pursuant  to  Article  22  of the  General  Convention,  setting  forth  in  particular
undertakings  from  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  to  ensure  the  economic  and
financial  equilibriuit  of the First  Plant  Project.

"Framework  Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment"  or  "FESIA"  mean
the  environmental  :nd social  impact  assessment  framework  document  prepared
for  the  purpose  of I art  1 of the  Project,  adopted  by  MASEN,  further  disclosed  in
the  Kingdom  of  Vorocco  on  June  25,  2014,  and  to  be  maintained  publicly
available  through 
the  implementation  of  the  Project,  such  FESIA  describing,
among  other  items:  (i) the  legal,  policy  and  regulatory  framework  applicable  to
the  environmental  n nd  social  management  of Part  I of the  Project,  including  the
environmental  nonns,  rules  and  procedures  applicable  to  the  construction,
operation  and  mairtenance  of the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant;  (ii) the
process  to be  followed  by  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the
Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  develop  SESIAs  or  Associated
Facilities  ESIAs,  if applicable,  before  commencing  any  civil  works  under  Part  I
of the  Project  including  the  implementation  of and  compliance  with  the  SESIAs
and  the  Associated  Facilities  ESIAs;  and  (iii)  the  disclosure  and  consultation
process  to  be  imp  emented  during  the  preparation  of  the  SESIAs,  and  the
construction  and  oferation  of the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant,  and  as  the
FESIAs  may  be  am mded  from  time to time after  consultation  with,  and  with  the
prior approval  of thi  Bank.

41. 

"General  Conditior  s"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  Genet al  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

-30-

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

"General  Convention"  means  the  convention  dated  October  26,  2010,  entered
into  between  the Kingdom  of Morocco  and the Borrower  pursuant  to Article  I  of
the  Basic  Legislation,  and  approved  by  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  under  Decree
No.  2-11-528  dated  September  8,  2011,  regarding  the  conditions  and  modalities
necessary  for the in tplementation  of the  solar  energy program  of the  Kingdom of
Morocco.

"KfW  Co-financie  r"  means  Kreditanstalt fuir  Wiederaujbau,  the  German
Development  Agen  :y,  referred to  in the  Appendix to the  Standard Conditions.

"KfW  Second  Plan  Co-financing"  means  an  amount  of EUR  330  million  to  be
provided  to  the Bor  -ower by  the  KfW  Co-financier  to assist  in  financing  Part  LA
of the Project.

"KfW  Second Plani  Co-financing  Agreement" means  the  agreement to be  entered
into  between  the  E orrower  and  the  KfW  Co-financier  providing  for  the  KfW
Second Plant Co-fii ancing.

"KfW  Third  Plant  Co-financing"  means  an  amount  of  EUR  324  million  to  be
provided to the Bor -ower by  the  KfW Co-financier  to assist  in financing  Part  1.C
of the  Project.

"KfW  Third  Plant Co-financing  Agreement"  means the  agreements  to be entered
into  between  the  E orrower  and  the  KfW  Co-financier  providing  for  the  KfW
Third  Plant Co-fina  icing.

"Land  Acquisition  3lans"  or  "LAPs"  means  any  Plant-Site  LAPs  or Associated
Facility  LAPs,  as  he  case  may  be,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be  prepared,
adopted  and  disclo! ed  in  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  in  accordance  with  Section
I.D.5  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

"MASEN  Capital"  means  the  subsidiary  of the  Borrower  established  under  the
laws  of the  Kingdo  n  of Morocco  by  the  Borrower,  which  will  hold  its  share  of
the  equity  interest  n the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  in  the
Third Plant Project  mplementing  Entity.

"MASEN  Financial  Management  and  Disbursement  Manual"  means  the  manual
describing 
disbursement
arrangements  for  th te  Project,  adopted  by  the  Borrower  on  June  7,  2013,  and
referred to in  Sectio i  I.A. 1 of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

f,nancial  management, 

co-financing 

and 

the 

"MASEN  Govematce  Framework"  means  the  set  of rules  and  practices,  policies
and  procedures  de:  igned  to  facilitate  accrued  efficiency  and  prevent  corrupt
practices,  adopted by the Borrower  on June  7,  2013.

-31  -

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

56. 

"Noor-Ouarzazate  ;olar  Complex"  means  the  First  Plant,  the  Second  Plant and
the  Third  Plant,  a,  well  as  the  First  Plant  Associated  Facilities,  Second  Plant
Associated  Faciliti( s  and Third  Plant Associated  Facilities.

"ONEE" means  O  ice National de  l'Electricit  et de l'Eau Potable, the National
Electricity  and  Wat .r Agency  of the  Kingdom  of Morocco.

"Ouarzazate-Tazza  t  Transmission  Line"  means  the  225  kilovolt  transmission
line  extending  between  the  substations  at  Ouarzazate  city  and  Tazzart  to  ensure
transmission  of the  energy  output of the  Second  Plant  and  the  Third  Plant to  the
wider Moroccan e  ctricity  grid.

"Ouarzazate-Tazzai  t  Transmission  Line  EIA"  means  the  environmental  and
social  assessment  dated  June  26,  2014,  describing  all  processes,  rules,  principles
including  monitor  ng  and  evaluation,  public  disclosure  and  consultation,
including  any  mit  gation  measures  and/or  environmental  management  plans
applicable  to the  O  arzazate-Tazzart  Transmission  Line.

"Plant-site  Land  Acquisition  Plans"  or  "Plant-site  LAPs"  means  collectively:
(a)  the  Land  Acqi isition  Plan  for  the  common  infrastructure  (ICESIA  LAP)
adopted  and  disclcsed  by  the  Borrower  on  February  11,  2013;  (b)  the  plan
prepared,  adopted  and  disclosed  on  June  1, 2011,  in  the  Kingdom  of Morocco
and  further  implem.nted  by the  Borrower  in order  to acquire  the  land needed  for
the purpose  of Part  L.A  and  Part  1.C  of the  Project;  (c) the  Land  Acquisition  Plan
prepared  and  adopt.-d  in  May 2013  by  the  Borrower  and further  implemented  by
the  Borrower  in  orc er  to acquire  the  additional  ha of land needed  for the purpose
of Part  1.A  and  Pai t  1.C  of the  Project;  and  (d)  any  other  LAP to  be  carried  out
by  the  Second  P1  mt  Project  Implementing  Entity,  the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entity,  or another  party  for  Part  L.A  or Part  1.C  of the  Project;  all
such  Plant-site  LAI s  including,  among other  items: (i) the  description  of the  land
to  be  acquired  and  actually  acquired  by  the  Borrower,  including  a map;  (ii)  the
applicable  legal  fra nework  for  land  acquisition  for  the  purpose  of Part  1.A  and
Part  1.C  of  the  PRoject;  (iii) 
the  process  followed  for  the  land  acquisition
including  consultat  on  of  affected  communities,  local,  provincial  and  national
authorities,  and  foi mal  agreement  of  relevant  parties  on  land  acquisition;  (iv)
payment  of compe  isation;  (v)  the  grievance  mechanisms  available  to  affected
communities;  and  vi)  the  monitoring  of  mitigation  measures,  evaluation  and
disclosure processe:  .

57. 

"Procurement  Guid ,lines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World Bank Borrov,ers"  dated January  2011.

- 32  -

58. 

59. 

60. 

61. 

62. 

63. 

64. 

65. 

"Project  Managerent  Unit"  means  the  Borrower's  unit  responsible  for  the
management  of thc  Project,  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  in  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  resettlement  policy
framework  adoptec  by  ONEE  as  part  of the  Ouarzazate-Tazzart  Transmission
Line  EIA,  containiig  guidelines,  procedures,  timetables  and  other  specifications
for  the  provision  of  compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to
Displaced  Persons,  as  amended  from  time  to time  with  the  prior  written  consent
of the  Bank.

"Second  Plant"  m(ans  the  concentrated  solar  parabolic  trough  facility  for  the
generation  of elecl  ricity  of  a  capacity  up  to  200  megawatt  gross,  at  a  2,500
hectare  site  located  10  kilometers  northeast  of the  city  of Ouarzazate  in  the
Kingdom  of Moroc:o.

"Second  Plant  Ass:ciated  Facilities"  means  those  facilities  and  infrastructures
referred  to in  Section 4.3.5  of the FESIA,  including those to be  built and operated
for the purposes  of:  (i) providing  water  for the operation  of the  Second Plant;  and
(ii) transporting  po  ier to and from the  Second  Plant through transmission  line.

"Second  Plant Engineering,  Procurement  and Construction  Contract"  or  "Second
Plant  EPC Contrac  " means  the  contract  to  be  entered  into  by  the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementing  Entity  and  a  third-party  contractors 
front-end
engineering  design,  procurement  of equipment  and  services,  and  construction  of
the  Second  Plant  an  a  lump-sum,  turnkey  basis  or  such  other  basis  as  may  be
suitable  for  comple ion  of the  facility within the  timeframe,  technical  parameters
and  other  terms  al  reed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Second  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entit,  in the  Second  Plant Power  Purchase Agreement.

for 

"Second  Plant  Fin incial  Management  and  Disbursement  Manual"  means  the
manual  describing  the  financial  management,  co-financing  and  disbursement
arrangements  for  I art  1.A  of the  Project,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of
Schedule  2 to this /  greement.

"Second  Plant  Go) ernance  Framework"  means  the  set  of rules  and  practices,
policies  and  proce  lures  designed  to  facilitate  accrued  efficiency  and  prevent
corrupt  practices,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be  prepared  and  adopted  by  the
Second  Plant Proje  t Implementing  Entity.

"Second  Plant  Ope  ation  and  Maintenance  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to
be entered into  between  the Second  Plant Project Implementing  Entity  and  a third
party  operator  allo  ating  to  the  operator  the  obligation  to  operate  and  maintain
the Second  Plant  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and conditions.

-33-

66. 

67. 

68. 

69. 

70. 

71. 

72. 

"Second  Plant  Pow,!r  Purchase  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered
into between  the  Bo rower  and  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  for
the  sale  by  the  Second  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  the  purchase  by
the  Borrower,  of el  ctricity  generated  from  the  Second  Plant  in  accordance  with
its terms  and conditi  )ns.

"Second  Plant  Powi r  Sale  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into
between  the  Borrow -r and  ONEE  for the  sale  by  the Borrower,  and  the  purchase
by  ONEE,  of electr c  capacity  and  energy  generated  from  the  Second  Plant  in
accordance  with its i erms  and  conditions.

"Second  Plant Projet  Implementing  Entity"  means  the company  to be held  under
the  laws  of  the  Kngdom  of  Morocco  by  the  Borrower  and  one  or  more
competitively  select.-d  partners  to  develop  the  Second  Plant  to  be  constructed
under Part  L.A  of th<  Project.

"Second  Plant  Shar.-holders'  Agreement"  means  the  agreement 
to  be  entered
into  by  MASEN  C&pital  with  all  the  other  holders  of all  of the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementin  Entity's  voting and  nonvoting  equity  interest  that  governs
their  relationship  ar d collective  approach  to  management  of the  Second  Plant
Project  Implementing Entity's  affairs.

"Second  Plant  Spec ific  Convention"  means  the  convention  to  be  entered  into
between  the Kingdoi n of Morocco  and the  Borrower  pursuant to Article 22  of the
General  Convention  setting  forth  in  particular  undertakings  from  the  Kingdom
of Morocco  to  ensu -e the  economic  and  financial  equilibrium  of Part  L.A  and
Part  1.B  of the  Proje:t

"Second  Plant  Su )sidiary  Loan  Agreements"  means 
the  agreement  or
agreements,  as the  c;  se  may be,  referred  to in  Section  I.B. I of Schedule  2 to this
Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  a portion  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  and  tht  proceeds  of the  AfDB  Second  Plant  Co-financing  I,  the
AfDB  Second Plant  2o-financing  II, the  EIB  Second  Plant  Co-financing,  and the
KfW  Second  Plant  ( o-financing  available  as  a loan  or loans,  as  the case  may be,
to the  Second  Plant  Froject Implementing  Entity.

"Social  Developmeit  Plan"  or  "SDP"  means  the  social  development  plan
describing:  (i) the be iefits that  will accrue  to local communities  in the  area of the
Project  through the  i se  of the  proceeds  of the  compensation  paid pursuant to the
provisions  of  the  P ant-site  LAPs  for  the  land  acquisition  necessary  for  the
Project;  and  (ii)  other  voluntary  actions  planned  to  be  implemented  by  the
Borrower  and/or  any other  stakeholder.

- 34  -

73. 

74. 

75. 

76. 

77. 

"Specific  Environ nental  and  Social  Assessments"  or  "SESIAs"  means,  the
assessment  or  asse ;sments,  as  the  case  may  be, to  be  carried  out  by  the  Second
Plant  Project  Imp]-menting  Entity  and  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing
Entity  for  Part  1.A  and  Part  1.C  of the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of the  FESIA,  inch  ding  all processes,  rules,  principles including  monitoring and
evaluation,  public  ,isclosure  and  consultation,  and  SESMPs,  as  described  in the
FESIA,  and  to  be  ,ubmitted to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and  approval  before  the
commencement  of  the  construction  of  the  Second  Plant  or  the  Third  Plant,  as
applicable,  such 
to  be  further  disclosed  and  maintained  publicly
available  on the  Borrower's  website  through  the  implementation  of the  Project,
and  as  the  SESIAs  may  be  amended  from  time  to time  after  consultation  with,
and  with the prior  approval of the  Bank.

;ESIAs 

"Specific  Environr lental  and  Social  Management  Plans"  or  "SESMPs"  means
the  plan  or  the  pla is,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  be  developed  and  adopted  by  the
Second  Plant  Pr  ject  Implementing  Entity  and 
the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Enti  y,  as  part  of  the  SESIAs,  for  Part  L.A  and  Part  1.C  of the
Project,  and  contai  iing,  inter alia, the  mitigation  measures  to  monitor,  reduce,
offset  or  compensE te  any  environmental  and/or  negative  impact  that  may  arise
from  the  activities  under  Part  L.A  and  Part  1.C  of the  Project,  such  plans  to
include 
for 
implementation,  budget  and
monitoring  and  ev aluation  systems  to  implement,  monitor  and  evaluate  said
mitigation  measures,  and  as  the  SESMPs  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time
after  consultation  m ith, and  with the prior approval  of the Bank.

institutional  arrangements 

their 

"Third  Plant"  meai  s the  concentrated  solar  tower  facility  for  the  generation  of
electricity  of a capE city  up to  150  megawatt  gross,  at  a 2,500  hectare  site  located
10  kilometers  north east of the  city  of Ouarzazate  in the Kingdom of Morocco.

"Third  Plant  Asso  iated  Facilities"  means  those  facilities  and  infrastructures
referred  to in Sectic  n 4.3.5  of the FESIA,  including  those to be built and  operated
for the  purposes  of  (i) providing  water  for  the operation  of the  Third Plant;  and
(ii) transporting  pow ier to and  from the Third Plant through transmission  line.

"Third  Plant  Engit eering,  Procurement  and  Construction  Contract"  or  "Third
Plant  EPC  Contrac.:"  means  the  contract  to  be  entered  into  by  the  Third  Plant
Project  Implement ing  Entity  and  a 
third-party  contractor  for  front-end
engineering  design,  procurement  of equipment  and  services,  and  construction  of
the  Third  Plant  on  a  lump-sum,  turnkey  basis  or  such  other  basis  as  may  be
suitable  for  comple  ion of the facility  within the  timeframe,  technical  parameters
and  other  terms  a greed  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entit / in the  Second  Plant Power  Purchase  Agreement.

- 35  -

78. 

79. 

80. 

81. 

82. 

83. 

84. 

85. 

"Third  Plant  Fina  icial  Management  and  Disbursement  Manual"  means  the
manual  describing  the  financial  management,  co-financing  and  disbursement
arrangements  for  I art  1.C  of the  Project,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A. 1  of
Schedule  2 to  this A greement.

"Third  Plant  Gove mance  Framework"  means  the  set  of rules  and  practices,
policies  and  proce, lures  designed  to  facilitate  accrued  efficiency  and  prevent
corrupt  practices,  s itisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be  prepared  and  adopted  by  the
Third  Plant  Project  'mplementing Entity.

"Third  Plant Operai ion and  Maintenance  Agreement"  means  the agreement  to be
entered  into  betwern  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  a  third
party  operator  allo  ating  to  the  operator  the  obligation  to  operate  and  maintain
the Third Plant in ai  cordance  with  its terms and  conditions.

"Third  Plant Power Purchase  Agreement"  means  the agreement  to be entered  into
between  the  Borrower  and  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity  for the
sale  by  the  Third  Plant  Project  Implementing  Entity,  and  the  purchase  by  the
Borrower,  of electr city  generated  from  the  Third  Plant  in  accordance  with  its
terms and  condition;.

"Third  Plant  Powei  Sale  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into
between  the  Borrov er and  ONEE  for the  sale by  the Borrower,  and  the  purchase
by  ONEE,  of elect!-ic  capacity  and  energy  generated  from  the  Third  Plant  in
accordance with  its  erms and  conditions.

"Third  Plant  Projec  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  company  to be  held  under
the  laws  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  by  the  Borrower  and  one  or  more
competitively  selec  ed  partners  to  develop  the  Third  Plant  to  be  constructed
under Part  1.C  of th,  Project.

"Third  Plant  Sharef  olders'  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into
by  MASEN  Capital  with  all  the  other  holders  of all  of the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entit /'s  voting  and  nonvoting  equity  interest  that  governs  their
relationship  and  collective  approach  to  management  of the  Third  Plant  Project
Implementing  Entito  's affairs.

"Third  Plant  Speci  ic  Convention"  means  the  convention  to  be  entered  into
between the  Kingdo n of Morocco  and the Borrower  pursuant to Article 22  of the
General  Conventior,  setting  forth  in  particular  undertakings  from  the  Kingdom
of Morocco to ensure  the  economic and  financial  equilibrium of Part  1.C  and Part
1.D  of the Project.

-36-

86. 

87. 

"Third  Plant Subsii liary  Loan  Agreements"  means  the  agreement  or  agreements,
as the case  may  be  referred to  in  Section  I.B.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement
pursuant to which  t ie  Borrower  shall  make  a  portion of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
and the  proceeds  ol  the AFD  Co-financing,  the AfDB  Third  Plant Co-financing  I,
the  AfDB  Third Ph nt Co-financing  II, the  EIB  Third  Plant  Co-financing,  and the
KfW  Third Plant C )-financing  available  as a  loan or loans,  as the case  may be, to
the Third Plant Pro ect  Implementing  Entity.

"Tripartite  Conven  ion"  means  the  Convention  dated October  26,  2010,  entered
into  among  the  K ngdom  of Morocco,  the  Borrower  and  ONEE  pursuant  to
Article  3  of the  Basic  Legislation,  regarding  the  obligations  of each  of  such
parties  regarding  t ie  supply,  transport,  commercialization  and  exportation  of
electricity.

