LOAN  NUMBER  8375-CN

(Economic Transformation  and Institutional  Capacity Building Project)

Loan Agreement

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

/ 

,2014

LOAN NUMBER  8375-CN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

2

.nc..  /  # 

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower and the Bank hereby  agree as follows:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

and 

2014,  between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA
AND

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part  of this Agreement;  provided, however,  that  each  reference  in  the  General
Conditions  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  reference  to  the
Subproject  Implementing  Agency;  and  provided  further,  that  each  reference  in  the
General Conditions  to the Project Agreement  shall be  deemed  to be  inapplicable.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  H  - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank agrees to  lend to the Borrower,  on the terms and  conditions set forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of thirty  five  million  Dollars  ($35,000,000),  as  such
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in
financing the project described  in Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with Section  IV  of

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee payable by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the Borrower for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate  equal  to
the  Reference  Rate for the Loan Currency  plus the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any portion of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan, the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article.  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the.
interest  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02
(e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates  are May  15  and November  15  in each year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms of the Loan  in  order to facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i)  a  change of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of'the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate basis applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Reference  Rate and
the  Variable  Spread to a  Variable Rate  based  on a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and the
Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable Rate based on a Variable  Spread to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding by the  establishment  of
an Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest Rate  Collar on the Variable  Rate or the Reference
Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article IV of the General Conditions  and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the Execution  Date for  an Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest Rate
Collar  for which the  Borrower has requested that the premium  be paid out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the Bank shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its commitment  to the  objectives  of the Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  MOF  and  the  Subproject  Implementing
Agencies  in accordance  with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.

. 3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  is carried  out in accordance  with the  provisions of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01.  The Effectiveness  Deadline is the date ninety  (90) days after the  date of this Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

5.02.  The Borrower's Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing.100820
People's Republic  of China

Facsimile:  86-10-6855-1125

5.03.  The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED at Beijing,  People's  Republic  of China, as of the day and year first above written.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

Authorized  Representative

Name:  L  F7 

A  WS9I"

Title: 

-...

INTERNATIONAL  BANKWIR
RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title: 

... 

-5

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objectives  of the Project are  to:  (i)  inform  the Borrower's  policy making;  and  (ii)  strengthen
the  Borrower's  capacity  to  implement  priority  reform  areas  articulated  in  the  Borrower's  Five
Year Plans and  other  development programs.

The Project consists  of the following parts:

Part A: 

Analytical Outputs

Carrying  out  of Subprojects  consisting  of, inter alia, strategic  plans,  sectoral  research,
technical  studies,  implementation  reports, and  topical  studies, relating  to selected areas  of
the Borrower's  economic  reform  and development  agenda,  including under  the following
thematic  areas:  (a)  fiscal  and  financial  reform;  (b)  economic  restructuring;  (c)  rural  and
urban  integration;  (d)  green  economy;  (e)  reform  of the national  innovation  system;  and
(f) public service  delivery.

Part B: 

Implementation  Support, Capacity Building Activities  and Project Management

Implementing  Agencies 

Carrying  out  of Subprojects  consisting  of capacity  building  activities  for  the  PMO  and
Subproject 
inter  alia,  Project  management,
monitoring  and  evaluation,  training  and  knowledge  sharing  study  tours,  scholarship
programs, 
secondment  programs, 
the  development  of
information  platforms and information  systems.

institution  building,  and 

including, 

-5-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section L 

Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements

Operations Manual

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The Borrower,  through the PMO,  shall  carry  out the Project,  and  shall  cause the  SIAs  to
carry  out  the  Subprojects,  in  accordance  with  the  Operations  Manual  in  a  timely  and
efficient  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  The  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  or
waive  said  Operations  Manual  or  any  provision  or  schedule  thereof, without  the  prior
written  concurrence  of the Bank.  In the  event of any  inconsistency  between  the  terms of
the  Operations  Manual  and  those  of this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of this  Agreement
shall  prevail.

Institutional Arrangements

The Borrower,  through  MOF,  shall  maintain  the  PMO  throughout the  implementation  of
the  Project;  such  PMO  to  be  assigned  qualified  staff in  adequate  numbers,  funds  and
other  resources  as  shall  be  necessary  to  enable  the  PMO  to  undertake  the  review  and
selection  of  proposed  Subprojects,  and 
to  monitor,  evaluate  and  supervise  their
implementation.

The  Borrower shall  cause  each  SIA  to  establish,  as  a condition  for Subproject  financing
under the Loan, and thereafter  maintain until  the completion  of the  relevant Subproject  or
Subprojects,  a  Subproject  Management  Office  at  the  SIA  level,  headed  by  a  qualified
officer  and  assigned  staff in  adequate  numbers  to  design  proposals  and  implement their
respective Subprojects.

Subprojects

All  Subprojects  shall  support  the  overall  development  objective  of  the  Project.  All
Subproject  proposals  shall  have  been duly prepared  and  submitted  by  SIAs, selected  and
approved  by the PMO  with  the no objection  from  the Bank,  and  following  the  eligibility
criteria,  procedures  and  technical  requirements  set  forth  to  such  effect  in the  Operations
Manual.

To assist in  the  carrying  out of Subprojects, the Borrower,  through  the PMO,  shall make
the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to  the  SIAs  under  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The Borrower  shall, and  shall  cause  each  SIA to, obtain the Bank's prior no objection  for
changing  any  of the  SIA's  Subproject  design,  Subproject  Procurement  Plan,  and/or
implementation  arrangements,  as  applicable.  The  Borrower  shall  promptly  inform  the
Bank  of any  situation that would  adversely  affect  the  carrying  out  of a  Subproject  and
shall  promptly take action,  satisfactory to the Bank, to address  such  situation.

-6-

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  SIA,  as  applicable,  to  ensure that  every  Subproject to  be
supported  under  the  Project  is  carried  out  under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the
Bank,  and  that  such terms  of reference  are consistent with,  and  pay due  attention  to,  the
Bank's  Safeguards Policies.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower,  through  the  PMO,  shall,  and  shall  cause  the  SIAs  to,  implement  the
Project,  and  all  Subprojects,  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF  and  with  any  instruments,
prescriptions  and/or mitigation  measures  to be prepared thereunder  as applicable.

The  Borrower,  through  the  PMO,  shall  not,  and  shall  cause  the  SIAs  not  to  amend,
suspend,  fail  to  observe  or waive  the ESMF,  or any  provision  thereof, without  the  prior
written  concurrence  of the Bank.

In  the  event  of any  inconsistency  between  the provisions  of the ESMF  and  those  of this
Agreement,  the provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

Section  II. 

Proiect Monitoring  Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall, through  the. PMO,  monitor and  evaluate  the progress  of the  Project
and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the
General  Conditions  and on the  basis  of the  indicators  set forth  in the  Operations Manual.
Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by such  report.

Without limitation  to the provisions  of paragraph  A.1  above,  the Borrower shall, through
the  PMO,  prepare,  under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  and  furnish  to  the
Bank  no  later than  June  30, 2017,  a consolidated  mid-term  review  report  for the Project,
summarizing  the results  of the monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  carried  out  from  the
inception  of  the  Project,  and  setting  but  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the
efficient  completion  of the.Project and to further the objectives thereof.

Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain or cause to be maintained  a financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the provisions of Section 5.09  of the  General  Conditions.

E. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

-7-

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall prepare
and furnish  to the  Bank, not later  than forty-five  (45)  days after  the end  of each calendar
semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in
form and substance  satisfactory to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the  Financial
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  (1)  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited
Financial  Statements for each such  period shall  be furnished to the Bank not later than six
(6)  months  after the  end of such  period.  The  Borrower  shall  make  the  audited  Financial
Statements  publicly available  in a timely fashion  and in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and non-consulting  services  required
for  the  Project  and to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with the  requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in  Section  I  of the  Procurement
Guidelines,  and with the  provisions of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
in  accordance  with  the
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured 
requirements  set forth or referred to in  Sections  I and IV  of the Consultant  Guidelines and
with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank of particular  contracts  refer  to
the corresponding  method described in  Sections  II and  Il  of the  Procurement Guidelines,
or Sections II, Il,  IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,  as the case may be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods and  non-consulting  services  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded on
the  basis of International  Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Goods and Non-consulting  Services.

The  following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in  the
Procurement Plan:  (a) National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to the additional  provisions
set forth in the box below;  (b) Direct Contracting;  and (c)  Shopping.

The  procedures  applicable  to  the  procurement  of goods,  works,  and  non-consulting
services  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  National  Competitive  Bidding
("NCB") shall  be  the  open  tendering  procedures  set forth  in  the Borrower's  Law  on
Tendering  and  Bidding  promulgated  by  its  Order  No.  21  dated  August  30,  1999;
provided,  however, that such  procedures  shall  be subject to  the provisions  of Section  I,
Paragraphs  3.3  and  3.4 of Section  M, and Appendix  1 of the  Procurement Guidelines,
and  the  additional  provisions  in  the following.  In the  event  of a  conflict  between  the
Borrower's  procedures  and  these  NCB  Procedure  Modifications,  the  latter  shall
govern.

(i) 

Eligibility to  participate  in  a  procurement  process  and  to  be  awarded  a Bank-
financed  contract  shall  be  as  defined  under  Section  I  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder  shall  be  declared
ineligible  for such  contract  for  reasons  other  than  those  provided  in  Section  I
of the  Procurement  Guidelines.  No restriction  based  on nationality of bidders
and/or  origin  of goods  shall  apply,  and  foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to
participate  in NCB  without application  of restrictive  conditions.

(ii)  All  invitations to  prequalify or bid shall be  advertised  in a national newspaper
of wide  circulation  in  the  Borrower's  country,  or  on  a widely  used  website  /
electronic  portal  with  free  national  and  interntional  access  acceptable  to  the
Bank  except  for  goods  or non-consulting  services  contracts  that are  estimated
to  cost  less  than  $300,000  equivalent  each,  or  works  contracts  that  are
estimated  to  cost  less  than  $2,000,000  each,  which  may  be  advertised  in  a
provincial  daily newspaper.  Such  advertisement  shall  be  made  in  sufficient
time  for  prospective  bidders  to  obtain  prequalification  or  bidding documents
In  any  event,  a-minimum  of thirty
and  prepare  and  submit  their  responses. 
(30)  days  shall  be  given  to bidders between  the date  of such  advertisement  (or
the  date  of  availability  of  bidding  documents,  whichever  is  later)  and  the
deadline  for  the  submission  of  bids,  and  the  advertisement  and  bidding
documents shall  specify the  deadline for the submission of bids.  In the case of
such  advertisement  on  a website  /  electronic  portal,  the  notice  shall  remain
readily  accessible  nationally  and  internationally  until  at  least  the  deadline  for
the  submission  of  bids.  Potential  bidders  shall  be. allowed  to  inspect  and
purchase  bidding  documents  at  any  time  prior  to  the  deadline  for  the
submission  of bids.

(iii)  Standard Bidding Documents  acceptable  to the Bank shall be used.

(iv)  Qualification  requirements  of  bidders  and  the  method  of  evaluating  the
in  detail  in  the  bidding

qualification  of  each  bidder  shall  be  specified 
documents.

(v)  Prequalification  procedures  and  documents  acceptable  to  the  Bank  shall  be
used  for  large,  complex  and/or  specialized  works.  Verification  of  the
including  current
information  upon  which  a  bidder  was  prequalified, 

-9-

commitments,  shall  be  carried  out at the  time of contract  award,  along with the
bidder's  capability  with  respect  to  personnel  and  equipment.  All  bidders  that
meet the  qualification  criteria  set  out  in  the  pre-qualification  documents  shall
be allowed  to  bid,  and  there  shall  be  no  limit  on the  number  of pre-qualified
bidders.  Where  pre-qualification  is  not  used,  the  qualification  of the  bidder
who  is  recommended  for  award  of  contract  shall  be  assessed  by  post-
the  bidding
qualification,  applying  the  qualification  criteria  stated 
documents.

in 

(vi)  Registration  shall  not be  used to  assess  bidders'  qualifications.  A bidder shall
not be required  to  register  as  a condition  for  inspecting  or purchasing  bidding
A  bidder
documents,  submitting 
determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder,  shall  be  given
reasonable  opportunity  of  registering  (if  required)  before  contract  signing
without any  let  or hindrance.  Bidding  shall not  be  restricted  to  any  particular
class of contractors,  and non-classified  contractors  shall  also be  eligible to bid.

its  bid  or  receiving  contract  award. 

(vii)  No margins  of preference  of any  sort shall  be  given to  bidders,  such  as  on the
basis  of their  location,  place  of incorporation,  or affinity  with  the geographical
area in which the Project activities  will take place.

(viii)  All  bidders  who  are  awarded  contracts  for  works  and  single-responsibility
contracts  shall  be  required  to  provide  performance  security  in  an  amount
sufficient to protect  the Borrower or the Project Implementing  Entity /  Entities,
as the  case  may  be,  in  case  of breach  of contract  by  the  contractor,  and  the
bidding documents shall  specify the required form  and amount of such security
and any other potential damages for such breach.

(ix)  Bidders  shall  be allowed to submit  bids by mail or in person.

(x)  All  bids  shall  be  opened  in  public;  all  bidders  shall be  offered  an  opportunity
to  be  present  (either  in person  or through  their  representatives)  it the  time  of
bid  opening, but bidders  shall not be required to be  present at the bid  opening.

(xi)  All  bid  evaluation  criteria  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  bidding  documents  and
in  the  form  of  pass/fail

terms  or  expressed 

in  monetary 

quantified 
requirements.

(xii)  No  bid may  be  rejected  solely on  the basis  that the  bid price  exceeds  any  cost
estimate  or  falls  outside  any  margin  or  bracket  of  prices  or  average  bids
established  by  the  Borrower  or the  Project  Implementing  Entity /  Entities,  as
the case may be.  Rejection  of all bids or re-bidding  shall not be allowed  solely
because  the  number  of bids  is  less  than  three  (3),  and  rejection  of all bids  or
rebidding shall  not take place without the Bank's  prior written agreement.

(xiii)  Each  contract  shall  be  awarded to the  lowest evaluated  responsive  bidder, that
is, the  bidder  who  meets the  appropriate  standards  of capability  and  resources
and  whose  bid  has  been  determined:  (A)  to  be  substantially  responsive  to the

-10-O

bidding  documents;  and (B)  to  offer  the  lowest  evaluated  cost.  The  winning
to  undertake
bidder'  shall  not  be  required,  as  a  condition  of  award, 
responsibilities  for  work  or  to  assume  other  obligations  not  stipulated  in  the
bidding documents  or otherwise to modify the bid as  originally submitted.  No
negotiations  shall be permitted  except with the Bank's no-objection.

(xiv)  In  accordance  with  the Procurement  Guidelines,  each  bidding  document  and
contract  shall  include  provisions stating  the Bank's  policy to sanction  firms or
individuals  found  to  have  engaged  in  fraud  and  corruption  as  set  forth  in  the
Procurement  Guidelines.

(xv) 

In  accordance  with  the Procurement  Guidelines,  each  bidding  document  and
contract  shall  include  provisions  stating  the  Bank's  policy  with  respect  to
inspection  and  audit of  accounts,  records  and  other  documents  relating  to the
submission of bids and  contract performance.

(xvi)  Government-owned  enterprises  in the Borrower's  country may be permitted  to
bid  or  submit  a  proposal  of goods,  works,  or  non-consulting  services  if they
can establish that they:  (A)  are legally and financially  autonomous;  (B)  operate
law;  and  (C)  are  not  a  dependent  agency.of  the  agency
under ;commercial 
conducting  the procurement.

(xvii)  Matters  such  as  subcontracting,  joint venture  relationships  and  assignment  of

contract shall be handled in accordance with  the bidding  documents.

(xviii)  The  results  of  bid  evaluation  and  contract  award  shall  be  published  in the
national  or provincial  press (as provided  under paragraph  (ii)  above)  or official
gazette  or a free  and  open-access  website  and  shall  identify:  (A)  the  name  of
each  bidder who submitted  a bid; (B)  bid prices  as read out at bid opening; (C)
the name of the bidder, and the evaluated  price,  of each bid that was evaluated;
(D) the names  of bidders  whose bids  were either  rejected  as non-responsive  or
not meeting  qualification  criteria,  or not  evaluated,  with  the reasons  therefor;
and (E)  the name  of the winning  bidder and  the  final total  contract  price,  as
well as the duration  and  summary scope of the contract.  Such  publication shall
be  within  two  (2)  weeks  of receiving  the- Bank's  no-objection  to  the  award
recommendation  for  contracts  subject  to the  Bank's  prior  review,  and  within
two  (2)  weeks  of the  Borrower  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  award
decision  for  contracts  subject  to  the  Bank's  post  review.  The  bidding
documents  shall disclose  the newspaper  in which and  / or the electronic  means
by which the information on contract award  will be published.

(xix)  The  Borrower  or  the Project  Implementing  Entity  / Entities,  as  the  case  may
be,  shall  have  in  place  an  effective  and  independent  protest  mechanism  for
bidders  to protest.  The  bidding  documents  shall provide  the professional  title
and address of the official to whom  such protests  should be sent.

-11-

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except as otherwise  provided in paragraph  2 below,
consultants'  services  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of Quality-
and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  table
specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,
which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the
circumstances  under which such  methods may be  used:

Procurement  Methods

(a)  Quality-Based  Selection

(b) 

(c) 

Selection  Based on the Consultants'  Qualifications

Selection  of Individual Consultants

(d)  Single  Source Selection  (Firm and Individual)

D. 

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject to the Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be subject to Post Review  by the  Bank.

-12-

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds of the Loan  in accordance  with the  provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from time  tp  time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance Eligible Expenditures  as set forth in the table in paragraph  2 below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of
the  Loan to each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to be financed  for  Eligible
Expenditures  in each  Category.

Category 

Goods, 

consultant's 
(1) 
services  and  Training  under
Subprojects A
consultant's 
Goods, 
(2) 
services  and  Training  under
Subprojects  B
(3) Front-end  Fee 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 
22,443,125 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be Financed'
(inclusive  of Taxes)
100%

12,469,375 

100%

87,500 

of 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement  in accordance  with
Section  2.07 (b)  of the General
Conditions
Amount 
Section 
Agreement

due  pursuant 
2.07(c) 

to
this

of 

Interest  Rate  Cap  or 

(4) 
Interest  Rate Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

35,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A  of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be made
for payments  made prior to  the date of this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date is December  31,  2019.

-13-

SCIEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each Principal  Payment
Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of the first Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted, as necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this Schedule,
to which a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each November  15  and May  15.

Beginning November  15,  2Q19, 
through  November  15,  2037

On May  15,  2038 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)

2.63%

2.69%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been .fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment Date shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that any proceeds  of the Loan  have  been withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the Borrower  shall  repay  the Withdrawn  Loan Balance
as of such date in  accordance  with paragraph  1 of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the first Principal Payment  Date  shall  be repaid  on
each Principal  Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying  the amount  of each such  withdrawal by a
fraction,  the numerator of which  is the original  Installment  Share specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  1 of this  Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares for  Principal Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after such
date, such amounts repayable  to be  adjusted, as necessary,  to deduct any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

.(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall, for the purposes solely  of calculating  the principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of

-14-

withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on each  Principal Payment  Date  commencing
with the second Principal  Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the Bank  adopts  a  due  date billing  system  under which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved.
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank by  multiplying such  amount  in  its currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion by  either:  (i) the  exchange  rate that reflects the  amounts of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component of the Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization  schedule  for each such amount.

-15-

APPENDIX

Section I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud and  Corruption  in Projects Financed  by IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits and  Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January 2011.

"Bank's  Safeguards  Policies"  means the operational  policies and procedures  for financing
of development  projects  by  the  Bank  at  the  date  of  this  Agreement  and  relating  to
Environmental  Assessment,  Natural  Habitats,  Pest  Management,  Indigenous  Peoples
(Ethnic  Minorities),  Physical  Cultural  Resources,  Involuntary  Resettlement,  Forests,
Safety  of Dam, Projects  on  International  Waterways,  and  Projects  in  Disputed  Areas,  as
published  under  www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits and Grants  by  World Bank Borrowers"
dated  January 2011.

5. 

.

"ESMF"  means  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  incorporated
within the  Operations  Manual,  prepared  and  adopted  by  the Borrower,  and  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  which  framework  sets  out  the  policies  and  procedures  for  identifying  the
potential  environmental  and  social  impacts  of Project  and  Subproject  activities,  and the
development of mitigation  and  management measures, as such framework  may be revised
from  time  to time with the prior written approval  of the  Bank;  and  such  term  includes  all
schedules  and agreements  supplemental  to said framework.

"Five  Year  Plans"  means  the  Borrower's  medium  term  programs  of national  economic
and  social  development  as  formulated  by the  Borrower's  State Council,  and  setting  out,
inter alia, the  main  activities  to  be  carried  out  in  relation  to  the  national  economy,
planning  and  programming  of  science  and  technology,  educational  undertakings  and
social  development.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"MOF"  means  the.Borrower's  Ministry of Finance,  or any successor thereto.

"Operations  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual  prepared  on  April  14,  2014,
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  to  be  formally  issued  by  MOF  before  the  Effective  Date,
providing,  inter alia, for:  (a) the  institutional,  implementation,  supervision,  monitoring
and  evaluation  and reporting  arrangements  for the Project; (b)  the eligibility and  selection
and  other
regulations, 
criteria,  applicable  norms  and 
implementation  aspects  of  Subprojects;  (c)  the  ESMF  and  other  arrangements  for

specifications 

technical 

-16-

screening  and  monitoring  safeguards  aspects  under the  Project;  and  (d)  implementation
guidelines  for  various  Project  activities,  including  financial  management,  procurement
and  disbursement  aspects,  as  such  manual  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  with  the
prior written  concurrence  of the Bank;  and such term  includes  all schedules  supplemental
to said  manual.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits and  Grants by World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means,  collectively,  the  Subproject  Procurement  Plans,  as  the  same
may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and
referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the
Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be updated  from time to time in accordance  with
the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Management  Office"  and  the  acronym  "PMO"  mean  the  office  established  by
the  Borrower within  the  International  Department  of its  Ministry  of Finance,  headed  by
the  Director  General  of  the  International  Department, -MOF,  and  to  be  maintained
according  to the provisions  of Section  I.B.1  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Subproject"  means a technical  assistance  set of activities  to be  designed  and carried  out
under  Parts  A  and B of the Project,  by a Subproject Implementing  Agency in  accordance
with  the  criteria  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  the  Operations  Manual,  with  the
objective  of enhancing  institutional  capacity  building  at  the  national  and  sub-national
levels  for the  adoption  and  implementation  of sound reform  and  development  strategies,
policies  and  implementation  plans, and to  be financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan,  as
provided  for in  this Agreement,  under  terms and  conditions  satisfactory to  the Bank, and
the term  "Subprojects"  means collectively  all  Subprojects.

"Subproject  A"  means  a  Subproject  as  so  defined  to be  implemented  by the Borrower's
government  departments  and  agencies  with  no  obligation. to  repay  the  principal  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan  made  available  to  the  relevant  SIA  by  the  Borrower  pursuant to
Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"Subproject  B"  means  a  Subproject  as  so  defined  to  be  implemented  by  the Borrower's
government  departments,  local governments  and agencies  with the obligation to repay the
principal  of the  proceeds  of the Loan  made  available  to the relevant  SIA  by the  Borrower
pursuant to Section I.C.2 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Subproject  Implementing  Agency"  and the acronym  "SIA"  mean  any  of the Borrower's
departments  and  agencies  at  either  the  national,  provincial,  municipal  or  county
government  level  that  are  responsible  for  implementing  specific  activities  under  the
Project.

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

-17-

17. 

18. 

19. 

"Subproject  Management  Office" means  the  offices  to  be  established  and  maintained  in
each  SIA pursuant  to  Section I.B.2  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

"Subproject  Procurement Plan"  means the procurement plan for each  Subproject prepared
by  a SIA,  as approved  by the Borrower and  the Bank, as such  plan may be amended  from
time  to  time  with  the  prior  approval  by  the  Bank,  and  Subproject  Procurement  Plans
means,.collectively,  the Procurement  Plan.

"Training"  means the costs of training activities under Parts A  and  B of the  Project, based
on annual  work plans  and  budgets  approved  by the  Bank,  and  attributable  to  seminars,
workshops,  scholarships,  secondment  programs,  and  domestic  and  overseas  study  trips,
along with travel and subsistence  allowances  for training participants, services  of trainers,
rental  of training  facilities,  preparation  and  reproduction  of training materials,  and  other
activities  directly related  to course  preparation and implementation.

-18-

