90CUMENT

LOAN  NUMBER  8331-PE

Loan Agreement

(National  Agricultural  Innovation  System  Support  Project - Proyecto Consolidaci6n
del Sistema Nacional de Innovaci,n Agraria del Programa Nacional de Innovaci6n
Agraria)

REPUBLIC  OF PERU

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  A3 

t 

, 2014

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement,  as  of the  Signature  Date  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  the  Loan
Agreement),  between  REPUBLIC  OF  PERU  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL
BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").

WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower,  through  its  Ministry  of Agriculture  and  Irrigation
("MINAGRI")  has  established  the  National  Agricultural  Innovation  Program  (PNIA),
which  aims at  increasing  agricultural  innovation  in  the  Borrower's  territory.

WHEREAS  (B)  PNIA  is  composed  of two  projects:  (i)  improving  the  strategic
innovation  services  of INIA  to  be  partially  financed  by  the  Inter-American  Development
Bank;  and  (ii)  National  Agricultural  Innovation  System  Support  Project,  to  be  partially
financed  by  the Bank.

Now, therefore  the  Borrower  and  the Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

in 
The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral  part  of this Agreement.

the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

in 

to 

this  Agreement, 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
the  amount  of  forty  million  Dollars
referred 
(USD40,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be converted  from  time  to  time through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to
this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for
purposes  of taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be  taken  pursuant  to  this
Section  is  the  Borrower's  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance  ("MEF"),  or  the
Borrower's  Director  General  of Indebtedness  and  Public  Treasury  ("DGETP") of
MEF,  and/or  any  person  whom  he  or  she  shall  designate  and  communicate  in
writing to the  Bank.

2.03. 

2.04. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee
not later than 60  days  after the  Effective  Date.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  30  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The  Payment Dates are  April  15  and  October  15  in  each  year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent debt  management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice versa; or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice versa; or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar on  the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

-2-

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower,  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  carry  out  the
Project  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Article  V of the  General  Conditions.

3.02  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project 
is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Steering  Committee  (Grupo de Trabajo: Comit  Directivo) has  been
created  in  form  and  substance  acceptable  to  the Bank.

The UEP  has  been  established  within  INIA  in  a  manner  acceptable  to the
Bank.

4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  90  days  after  the  date  of this  Agreement,
but  in  no  case  later  than  eighteen  18  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the
Loan which  expire  on  June  17,  2015.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister  of Economy and  Finance,  provided
that  the  Borrower's  Director  of Indebtedness  and  Public  Treasury,  may,  by  him
or  herself  represent  the  Borrower  to  sign  amendments  and/or  notices  to  this
Agreement  which  are  considered  of an  administrative  and  non-financial  nature.
The  signing  by  such  Director  of an  amendment  and/or  notice  shall  constitute  a
representation  by  the  Borrower  that  any  such  amendment  and/or  notice  is
considered  to be  administrative  and  non-financial  in  nature.

5.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Economy  and  Finance
Jr.  Junin  319
Lima,  Peru
Facsimile:  +51  (1) 626-9921

-3-

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

Telex: 
248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
9  0 1 

i1  3 
Borrower  on 

Ll rr 

and  at 

e  U

Fv 

1 

on  behalf  of  the  Bank  on
on  behalf  of  the

,  0(A 

REPUBLIC  OF  PERU

Authorized  Representative

Name  LUIS  MIGUEL  CASTILLA  RUBIO

Title  Ministro  de  Economia  y  Finanzas

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name 

L 

/v(  Ck 

Qr  c1 U

Title 

c 

)  1 re 

c

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  create  the adequate  conditions  in the  Borrower's
SNIA  in  order  to  support  the  effectiveness  of  its  member  organizations  in  providing  or
developing  improved  agricultural  technologies.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Component  1:  Strengthening  Capacity  of INIA  to  lead  the  SNIA

Strengthening  INIA's  institutional  capacities  to  lead  and  coordinate  the  SNIA,  through
inter alia:

(a)  the  establishment of SNIA's  technical  secretariat;  and

(b)  the  establishment  of  an  innovation  awards  program  within  INIA 

to

recognize  excellence  in  agricultural  innovation.

Component  2:  Consolidating  the Market for Innovation Services

Supporting  the  development  of  a  market  for  innovation  systems 
territory, through:

in  the  Borrower's

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

the  provision  of  support  to  Beneficiaries  for  the  carrying  out  of:  (i)
Adaptive  Research  Subprojects;  (ii)  Extension  Subprojects;  and  (iii)
Community  Seeds Enterprise  Subprojects;  and

the  carrying  out  of awareness  campaigns  to  promote  the  availability  of
the  competitive  funds  described  in  (a)  above,  especially  among  women
and  indigenous  population  groups.

Component  3:  Strategic  Capacities  in the SNIA

Enhancing  the  capacity  of the  SNIA  to  produce  and  facilitate  innovation,  through:

the  provision  of  support  for  the  carrying  out  of:  (i)  Strategic  Research
Subprojects;  and  (ii)  Capacity  Building  Subprojects;

the  financing,  on  a  competitive  basis,  of  Scholarships 
Students  for  postgraduate  studies  and  short term  internships;  and

to  Eligible

-5-

(c) 

the  carrying  out  of awareness  campaigns  to  promote  the  participation  in
the  Subprojects  described  in  (a)  and  the  Scholarships  described  in  (b)
above.

Component 4:  Project Implementation

Strengthening  the  institutional  and  organizational  capacities  of  INIA  required  for  the
successful  implementation  of Project  activities,  including  compliance  with  procurement,
safeguards,  financial  management,  and  monitoring  and  evaluation  requirements.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A.  Institutional Arrangements

1.  The  Borrower through  MINAGRI,  acting through  INIA,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(i)  a  unit 

create  and  thereafter  operate  and  maintain  until  the  completion  of  the
Project: 
(the  UEP)  within  INIA, 
the
management,  coordination,  supervision,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the
Project;  and  (ii)  within  the 24  months after the  Effective  Date, create  and
maintain  six  (6)  regional  offices  covering  the  Borrower's  territory,
responsible  for the  coordination  of Project  activities  in  remote  locations,
including the  responsibility  to  ensure  integration  and  quality  of activities
under the  Project;

responsible 

for 

cause  the  unit mentioned  in  (a)  above  to maintain,  until  completion  of the
Project,  a  structure,  responsibilities,  and  key  staff  with  functions,
experience,  responsibilities  and  qualifications  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as
described  in  the  Operational  Manual,  including:  (i)  for  the UEP,  a  Project
director,  an  operations  director,  an  administrative  head,  a  unit  head  for
market  for  innovation  services,  a  procurement  specialist  and  a  financial
management  specialist;  and

(c) 

cause  the  regional  offices  to  maintain  each  a  regional  office  head,  two
technical  specialists,  and an  administrative  specialist.

2.  The  Borrower,  through  MfNAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  create  and
thereafter  maintain  throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  a  Steering
Committee  (Grupo de Trabajo: Comitd Directivo) in  charge  of the  governance  of
the  Project,  which  committee  shall  have  a  maximum  of  seven  members,  with
functions,  powers,  resources  and  competencies  acceptable  to  the  Bank, 
as
defined  in  the Project  Operations  Manual.

3.  The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall:  (a)  prepare  and
furnish  to the  Bank annual  operating plans,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  detailing  the
Project  activities  to  be  carried  out  during  the  year  following  the  date  of
presentation  of each  such  plan,  together  with  the  respective  sources  of funding,
by  October 31  of each  year during  Project  implementation;(b)  furnish  to the  Bank
the  approved  annual  operating  plans  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section
for each  year  in  question,  not  later than  December  I  of each  year  during  Project

-7-

implementation;  and  (c)  thereafter,  implement  each  of  said  plans  in  a  manner
acceptable  to the Bank.

4.  The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  carry  out  the
Project  in  accordance  with  a  manual  (the  Operational  Manual),  satisfactory to  the
Bank, which  shall  include  the rules,  methods,  guidelines,  standard  documents  and
procedures  for the  carrying  out  of the  relevant  Parts  of the  Project,  including  the
following:  (i)  the detailed  description  of Project  implementation  activities  and  the
detailed  institutional  arrangements  of the Project;  (ii)  the criteria  and  methods  for
the  selection  of the  Eligible  Students;  (iii)  criteria  and  methods  for  the  selection
of Beneficiaries;  (iv)  detailed  social,  economic,  financial,  and  technical  criteria
for  the  evaluation  and  ranking  for  selecting  Subprojects;  (v)  selection  criteria  for
Scholarships;  (vi)  guidelines  for  the adoption  of pest management  measures  in  all
applicable  activities  to  be  developed  under  the  Project,  as  identified  in  the  EMF;
(vii)  a  model  form  of a  Subproject  Agreement  and  a  Scholarship  Agreement;
(viii) 
the  Project  administrative,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting,  financial
(including  cash  flow  aspects  in  relation  thereto),  procurement  and  disbursement
procedures;  (ix)  the  monitoring  indicators  for  the  Project;  and  (x)  rules  and
procedures  for  the  provision  of no-objection  to  the hiring  of staff assigned  to  the
UEP.  In  the  event  that  any  provision  of the  Operational  Manual  shall  conflict
with this Agreement,  the  terms  of this  Agreement shall  prevail.

5.  As  part  of the  process  that  shall  transform  INIA  into  a  Specialized  Technical

Agency,  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting through  INIA  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  submit  satisfactory
evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  an official  petition requesting  the
change  of INIA's  status  into  a  Specialized  Technical  Agency  has  been
presented  by  INIA  to MINAGRI;  and

not  later  than  30  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  submit  satisfactory
evidence  to  the  Bank  that  INIA  has  become  a  Specialized  Technical
Agency  has  been concluded.

B.  Anti-Corruption

C.  Subprojects

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

For  the  purposes  of carrying  out  Parts  2(a)  and  3(a)  of the  Project,  the  Borrower
through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall:

-8-

(a) 

(b) 

after  having  selected  a  Subproject  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  and
procedures  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  enter  into  an  agreement
with  the  eligible  Beneficiary  ("Subproject  Agreement"),  under  terms  and
conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  and  included  in  the Operational  Manual,
for  the  provision  of  Subproject  Funds  for  the  implementation  of  said
Subproject.

in  accordance  with  sound 

ensure  that  each  Subproject  Agreement  is  prepared  based  on  the  model
form  approved  by  the  Bank  and  included  in  the  Operational  Manual,  in
which  the  Borrower,  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  [NIA  shall:  (i)
obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of the  Bank;  (ii)
require  each  Beneficiary  to  carry  out  its  pertinent  Subproject  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and 
technical,
agricultural,  economic,  environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of Loan  proceeds
other than the  Borrower,  the Environmental  Management  Framework,  and
the  Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Plan;(iii)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,
the  resources  required  for  the  carrying  out of the  Subproject;  (iv)  procure
the  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and  consultants'  services  to  be
financed  out of the  Subproject  Funds  in accordance  with  the provisions  of
this  Agreement;  and  (v)  enable  the  UEP  and  the  Bank  to  inspect  the
pertinent  Subproject, 
its  operation  and  any 
records  and
documents;  and

relevant 

(c) 

its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Subproject
exercise 
Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower  and
the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through
INIA  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  waive,  terminate  or fail  to  enforce
any  Subproject  Agreement  or any  provisions thereof.

D.  Scholarships

1.  Prior  to  the  provision  of  any  Scholarship,  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,
acting  through  INIA  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  ("Scholarship  Agreement")
with  the  corresponding  Eligible  Student,  under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable
to  the Bank.

2.  The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  fNIA  shall:  (a)  exercise  its
rights  and  carry  out  its obligations  under  each  Scholarship  Agreement,  in  such  a
manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan;  and  (b) except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree,  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting through  INIA  shall  not to  assign,

-9-

amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Scholarship  Agreement
(or any provision  thereof).

E.  Safeguards

1.  Environmental  Management  Framework (EMF)

for  environmental 

The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall:  (a)  implement  the
Project  in  accordance  with  the  EMF;  (b)  comply  with  the  procedures  detailed  in
and
said  EMF 
monitoring  of  Subprojects,  including  the  procedures  for  the  preparation  of
environmental  management  plans,  if applicable;  and  (c)  implement  and/or  cause
to  be  implemented,  the  pertinent  environmental  management  plan,  in  accordance
with their terms  and  in  a  manner  acceptable to  the Bank.

screening,  evaluation, 

implementation 

2. 

Indigenous  Peoples  Plan  (IPP)

The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  implement  the
Project  in  accordance  with the  IPP.

Section  II. 

Project  Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A.  Project Reports

The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  monitor  and
evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on the  basis  of
indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of
one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  one
month after the  end of the  period covered  by  such  report.

B.  Financial Management,  Financial  Reports  and Audits

1.  The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  maintain  or  cause
in  accordance  with  the

to  be  maintained  a  financial  management  system 
provisions of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions.

2.  Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower
through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank
not  later  than  30  days  after the  end  of each  calendar  semester  interim  unaudited
financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

3.  The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall  have  its  Financial
Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the

-10-

General  Conditions.  Each  audit of the Financial  Statements  shall  cover the  period
of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each
such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank  not later  than  six  months  after the  end
of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A.  General

1.  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required for the  Project  and to  be  financed  out of the proceeds
of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the  provisions  of
this  Section.

2.  Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with  the provisions  of this Section.

3.  Definitions.  The  capitalized 

to  describe
terms  used  below 
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II and  III  of the
IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III, 
Guidelines,  as the  case  may be.

in  this  Section 

B.  Particular Methods  of  Procurement of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting

Services

1.  International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

(b)  National  Competitive  Bidding  subject  to  the  additional  provisions  set

(e)  Community  Participation  procedures  which  have  been  found  acceptable

Procurement Methods:

(a)  Limited  International  Bidding

forth in paragraph 3 below

(c)  Shopping

(d)  Direct Contracting

to the  Bank

-ll-

2.  Special  Provisions  for National  Competitive  Bidding.  In  addition  and  without
limitation  or  restriction  to  any  other  provisions  set  forth  in  this  Section  or  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  the  following  provisions  shall  govern  the  procurement
of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  with  National  Competitive  Bidding
procedures  under  this  Section:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  required  to  be 
condition  of participation  in the  selection  process;

locally  registered  as  a

no  reference  value  (precio referencial) shall  be  required for  publication
in the  bidding documents  or used  for the  purpose of bid  evaluation;

award  of  contracts  shall  be  based  exclusively  on  price  and,  whenever
into  account  factors  that  can  be  quantified
appropriate,  shall  take 
objectively,  and  the  procedure  for  such  quantification  shall  be  disclosed
in  the invitation  to  bid;

foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  participate  in  National  Competitive
Biddings  without  restriction,  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  unjustified
requirement  which  will  affect  their  ability  to  bid  such  as,  but  not  limited
to,  the  requirement  to  authenticate  (legalizar) their  bidding documents  or
any  document  related  to  such  bidding  documents  with  either  Peruvian
Consulates,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Foreign  Affairs,  or any  Peruvian
authorities  as  a  prerequisite  of bidding;  and

(e) 

standard  bidding  documents  and  standard  evaluation 
satisfactory to  the Bank,  shall  be used.

formats,  all

C. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants' Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and Cost-based  Selection.

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the Procurement  Plan:

-12-

Procurement Methods

(a)  Quality-based  Selection

(b)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications

(c)  Selection  under a  Fixed  Budget

(d)  Least  Cost Selection

(e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms

(f)  Procedures  set forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.5  of the  Consultant  Guidelines

for the Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

3. 

In  addition  and  without  limitation  or  restriction  to  any  other  provisions  set  forth
in  this  Section  or  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  the  following  provisions  shall
govern  all  procurement  of consultants'  services:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  be  locally  registered  as  a
condition  of participation  in the  selection  process;

foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  authenticate  (legalizar) any
documentation  related  to their  participation  in  the  selection  process  with
Peruvian  Consulates,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Foreign  Affairs,  or  any
Peruvian  authorities  as  a  condition  of  participation  in  said  selection
process;

standard  requests  for  proposals  and  standard  evaluation  formats,  all
satisfactory  to the  Bank  shall be  used;

foreign  consultants,  either  individuals  or  firms,  shall  not  be  required  to
pay  fees  to  the  Peruvian  Consultants'  Association  that  are  different  from
those  required  for  Peruvian  consultants;  and

no  individual  consultant  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall,
at the  time  he  or she  is  carrying  out his  or her  contractual  obligations  as
consultant,  hold  civil  service  office  or  any  other  position  in  any  agency
or  instrumentality  of  the  Borrower,  nor  shall  such  consultant  have  any
right  to  re-entry  into  any  such  office  or  position  upon  the  conclusion  of
his  or her consulting  services.

-13-

A. 

1. 

2. 

D. 

Review  by the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  may  withdraw  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  11  of  the
General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
shall  specify  by  notice 
the  "World  Bank
the  Borrower 
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such
in  the  table  in
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth 
paragraph  2  below.

(including 

to 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  million 
USD)

Percentage  of
Expenditures to
be  financed

(1) Goods,  works,  Non-
Consulting Services,
consultants'  services, 
training  and  operating cost
for  Part  1,  2(b),  3(c)  and 4
of the Project
(2)  Goods,  works, non-
consulting  services, 
consultant  services,
required  for  Subprojects
(3)  Scholarships 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

3,338,868 

Up  to  100%

33,457,932 

Up to  100%

3,203,200 
40,000,000

Up to  100%

-14-

B. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

for  payments  made  prior  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  $8,000,000,  may  be
made  in  respect  of Categories  (1)  and  (2)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Part  A
of  the  previous  section  may  be  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after
December  17,  2013,  but not  earlier  than  12  months  from  the  date  of this
Agreement,  for  Eligible  Expenditures  under the  Project;

from  the  Loan  Account  until  the Bank has  received  payment  in  full  of the
Front-end  Fee;  and

under  Category  (3)  unless  and  until,  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,
acting through  INIA  has  defined  and  established  the  specific  mechanism
to  administer  and  control  provision  of  Scholarships  in  a  manner  and
substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Other Undertakings

C. 

1 .

The  Borrower through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  shall:

have  all  the  procurement  records  and  documentation,  including  those  for
Subprojects,  for  each  fiscal  year  of the  Project  reviewed,  in  accordance
with  appropriate  procurement 
independent
reviewers  acceptable  to  the Bank;

review  principles,  by 

furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but in  any  case  not later than  six
months  after  the  end  of  each  such  fiscal  year,  the  procurement  external
review report  of such  review  by  said  reviewers  of such  scope  and  in  such
detail  as the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request;  and

furnish  to  the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  said  procurement
records  and  documentation  and  the  procurement  review  thereof  as  the
Bank  shall from  time  to time  reasonably  request.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

2. 

The Closing Date  is  September  1, 2019.

-15-

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each  April  15  and  October  15
Beginning  April  15,  2022 
through  October  15,  2023

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

25%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal 
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as

-16-

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on or  after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
to  any
withdrawals  made  after the adoption  of such  billing  system.

longer  apply 

shall  no 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

4. 

5. 

-17-

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

"Adaptive  Research  Subproject"  means  any  of  the  investments  focused  on
adaptive  research  activities  aimed  at  ensuring  sustainable  intensification  of
agriculture  production  and/or  climate  change  adaptation,  referred  to  in  Part
2(a)(i)  of the  Project  and  to  be  carried  out  by  a  Beneficiary  in  accordance  with
relevant  provisions  of  the  Operational  Manual  and  to  be  partly  financed  with
Subproject  Funds  under the pertinent  Subproject  Agreement.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

respect 

inter  alia:  (i)  with 

to  Adaptive  Research
"Beneficiary"  means, 
Subprojects  and  Extension  Subprojects,  small  to  medium  sized  producer-based
organization  vested  with  legal  personality  and/or  a  group  of  rural  citizens
organized  into  a  legally  established  private  association;  (ii)  with  respect  to
Community  Seeds  Enterprises  Subprojects,  producer-based  seed  enterprises;  (iii)
with  respect  to  Strategic  Research  Subprojects,  universities,  research  institutions,
experimental  stations,  governmental  organizations,  and  producer  organizations;
and  (iv)  with  respect  to  Capacity  Building  Subprojects,  public  and  private
organizations  that  offer  technical  production,  climate  change  resiliency  and  soft
skills (i.e.  extension  methods,  project  design),  and  extension  agents, all  of which,
upon  meeting  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  are  eligible  to
receive  Subproject  Funds  for the carrying  out of a  Subproject.

"Capacity  Building  Subprojects"  means  any  investment  focused  on  building  the
capacity  of extension  and  technical  assistance  providers  in  the  Borrower's  rural
areas,  referred  to  in  Part  3(a)(ii)  of  the  Project  and  to  be  carried  out  by  a
Beneficiary  approved  by the  Borrower,  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  I-NIA,
in  accordance  with  relevant  provisions  of  the  Operational  Manual  and  to  be
partly financed  with  Subproject  Funds  under the  pertinent  Subproject  Agreement.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Community  Seeds Enterprise  Subproject"  means  any  investment  focused  on  the
development  of  quality  seeds  (basic  and  certified)  treatment,  including  post-
harvest treatment  and  storage,  referred  to  in  Part  2(a)(iii)  of the  Project  and  to  be
carried  out  by  a  Beneficiary  approved  by  the  Borrower,  through  MINAGRI,
acting  through  INIA,  in  accordance  with  relevant  provisions  of the  Operational
Manual  and  to  be  partly  financed  with  Subproject  Funds  under  the  pertinent
Subproject  Agreement.

-18-

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

"Component  1" means  component  I  of  the  Project,  equivalent  to  the  activity
described  as  "Actividad 1" (Mejoramiento de  las  Capacidades del  INIA  como
ente  rector  del  SNIA)  and  "Componente  1,  Actividad  1.1"  (Promoci6n  del
Mercado de los Servicios de Innovaci6n)  in  the  Informe  Tcnico of Borrower's
Direccidn  General  de  Politicas  de  Inversiones  No.  083-2013-EF/63.01  of
October  23,  2013.

"Component  2"  means  component  2  of the  Project,  equivalent  to 
the  activity
described  as  "Componente  1  del  Proyecto  de  Inversi6n  Puiblica  No.  1"
(Afianzamiento  del  Mercado  de  Servicios  de 
Innovacidn),  excluding
"Componente  1, Actividad  1.1"  (Promoci6n del  Mercado de  los  Servicios  de
Innovaci6n),  in  the  Informe  Ticnico  of  Borrower's Direcci6n  General  de
Politicas de Inversiones No.  083-2013-EF/63.01  of October 23,  2013.

"Component  3" means  component  3  of  the  Project,  equivalent  to 
the  activity
described  as  "Componente 2 del Proyecto de Inversi6n Piblica No.  1" (Impulso
a la Creaci6n de  Competencias Estratigicas en  Investigaci6n, mas  Desarrollo
mas  Innovaci6n) in  the  Informe  Ticnico  of Borrower's Direcci6n General de
Politicas de Inversiones No. 083-2013-EF/63.01  of October 23,  2013.

the  activity
"Component  4"  means  component  4  of  the  Project,  equivalent  to 
described  as "Unidad Ejecutora" in the  Informe Tienico of Borrower's Direcci6n
General de Politicas de Inversiones No. 083-2013-EF/63.01  of October 23,  2013.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Eligible  Student"  means  an  individual  who  is  eligible  to  benefit  from  a
Scholarship  in accordance  with the  criteria  set forth  in  the  Operational  Manual.

"Environmental  Management  Framework  or  EMF"  means 
the  Borrower's
framework  dated  September  11,  2013,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as published  and
available  to  the  public  on  the  website  www.inia.gob.pe,  which  contains  the
in  respect  of  the  Project,  including:  (i)
environmental  protection  measures 
protection  of natural  habitats,  forests  and  pest  management;  (ii)  guidelines  for  the
identification  of  existing  environmental  conditions  and  potential  direct  and
indirect  environmental  impacts  resulting  from  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project
(including  Subprojects);  (iii)  guidelines  for  the  carrying  out  of  environmental
assessments  and  the  preparation  of  environmental  management  plans,  when
applicable;  (iv)  the  recommendation  of  mitigation  measures  for  each  negative
impact  identified;  and  (v)  measures  for  enhancing  each  identified  positive
impacts.

-19-

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

"Extension  Subproject"  means  any  investment  focused  on  agricultural  extension
from  an  innovation  system  perspective,  referred  to  in  Part  2(a)(ii)  of the  Project
to  be carried  out by  a  Beneficiary  approved  by the  Borrower,  through  MINAGRI,
acting  through  INIA,  in  accordance  with  relevant  provisions  of the  Operational
Manual  and  to  be  partly  financed  with  Subproject  Funds  under  the  pertinent
Subproject  Agreement.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

"Indigenous  Peoples'  Plan  or  IPP"  means  the  Borrower's  plan  dated  October  8,
2013,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and  available  to  the  public  on  the
website  www.inia.gob.pe,  detailing  measures  to  mitigate  any  adverse  impact  on
Indigenous  Peoples  as  a  result  of  any  activity  carried  out  under  the  Project
(including  Subprojects)  and  to ensure  that they  benefit from  the  Project.

"INIA"  means Instituto Nacional de Innovaci6n Agraria, the  Borrower's  national
institute  of  agricultural  innovation,  established  pursuant  to  Legal  Decree  No.
25902  of November  1992; or any  other  successor thereto,  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  dated  November  5,  2013  for  the
operation  of  the  Project  referred  to  in  Section  1.4  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  as  such  manual  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the
agreement  of the  Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  (through  MINAGRI,  acting  through
INIA)  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated  October  14,  2013  and  referred  to
in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of  the
Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Scholarship"  means  a  contribution  made  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to
finance  eligible  expenditures,  acceptable  to  the Bank  (as  the  same  are  determined
in  accordance  with  a  formula  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual),  in  respect  of
tuition,  the  cost  of  living  allowance,  books  and  leaming  materials,  and/or
transportation  costs  and per-diem (as  the case  may be),  all  under  Parts 3(b)  of the
Project.

22. 

"Scholarship  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.D.1  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

-20-

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest  of the  two  dates  on  which  the  Borrower  and
the  Bank signed  the  Loan  Agreement  and  such  definition  applied  to  all  references
to  "the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement"  in  the General  Conditions.

techniques  and 

"SNIA"  means Sistema Nacional de Innovacidn Agraria, the Borrower's  national
agricultural  innovation  system,  which  includes  institutions,  principles,  norms,
in
procedures, 
collaboration  with  the  private  sector  and  universities  promotes  the  development
of research,  technological  development,  innovation  and technology  transfer  in the
agricultural  sector  aimed  at  promoting  the  modernization  and  competitiveness  of
the Borrower's  agricultural  sector.

through  which 

the  Borrower, 

instruments 

the  Borrower's  special  agencies
"Specialized  Technical  Agency"  means 
regulated  by  Article  33  of the  Borrower's  Organic  Law  of the  Executive  Branch
(Ley  Orgdnica  del  Poder  Ejecutivo)  of  December  20,  2007,  vested  with
functional 
independency  and  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  executing,
planning  and  supervising the  Borrower's  policies  in  specific  sectors.

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  Borrower's  working  group  within  UEP  (Grupo
de Trabajo: Comili Directivo), responsible  for the  governance  of PNIA.

"Strategic  Research  Subprojects"  means  any  investment  focused  on  strategic
research  programs  and  collaborative  research  activities  referred  to  in  Part  3(a)(i)
of the  Project  and  to  be  carried  out  by  a  Beneficiary  approved  by  the  Borrower
through  MINAGRI,  acting through  INIA,  in  accordance  with  relevant  provisions
of the  Operational  Manual  and  to  be  partly  financed  with  Subproject funds  under
the  pertinent  Subproject Agreement.

"Subproject"  means  any  Adaptive  Research  Subproject,  Extension  Subproject,
Strategic  Research  Subproject,  Community  Seeds  Enterprise  Subproject  and/or
Capacity  Building  Subprojects.

"Subproject  Agreement"  means  each  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the
through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA  and  a  Beneficiary  as
Borrower 
specified  in  Section  I.C.(a) of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

"Subproject  Funds"  means  a  contribution  made  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
from  the  Borrower  through  MINAGRI,  acting  through  INIA,  to  a  selected
Beneficiary  for  the  partial  financing  of  an  eligible  Subproject,  subject  to  the
specific  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  and  in  the
relevant Subproject  Agreement.

"UEP"  means  Unidad Ejecutora del  Programa (PNIA),  the  unit  with  financial
administrative  and  economic  autonomy,  and  directly  dependent  of  the  head  of
INIA,  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1(a)(i)  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

-21-

