OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS;

LOAN NUMBER  8407-AZ

Loan Agreement

(Judicial Services  and  Smart Infrastructure  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF AZERBAIJAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

, 2014

LOAN NUMBER  8407-AZ

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

, 2014,  between  the
REPUBLIC  OF  AZERBAIJAN  ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Appendix to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to 
in  this  Agreement,  one  hundred  million  United  States  Dollars
($100,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in financing  the  project  described  in Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter of one
percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The  Payment Dates are  June  15  and  December  15  in  each year.

2.06. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based on a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting of limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the  establishment  of an Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate
Collar  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out the  Project  through  the  Judicial  Modernization
Team  within  the  Ministry  of Justice  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article
V  of the  General  Conditions.

-2-

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of, namely  that:  (a)  the  Presidential
Decree  No.  268  dated February  13,  2014;  and  (b)  the  Ministerial  Decree  No.  12S
of  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  dated  February  4,  2006,  have  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so as to  affect  materially  and  adversely
the  ability  of the  Judicial  Modernization  Team  and/or  the  Ministry  of Justice  to
perform  any of their respective  obligations  in  carrying  out the Project.

4.02.  The  Additional  Events  of  Acceleration  consists  of,  namely  that  the  event
specified  in  Section 4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing for  a  period
of  ninety  (90)  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V  - TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister  of Finance.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Finance
83  Samed Vurgun  Street
Baku AZ1022
Republic of Azerbaijan

Telex: 

Facsimile:

142116  BNKSL 

99412  4044720
99412  4044721

-3-

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Baku,  Republic  of Azerbaijan,  as  of the day  and year  first above  written.

REPUBLIC  OF  AZERBAIJAN

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

Title: 

5-ke( 

0C\o-

Y,~A IM ok Yr%^0k 

v

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:  L 

r  5O 

C 

\VD

Title: 

-U4-AY- 

"\

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

1 .

2. 

1 .

The  objective  of the Project  is  to  improve  the  access,  transparency  and  efficiency

of delivery  of selected justice  services.

Part A:  Judicial  Service  Delivery  Improvements

legal  aid  services  to 

Improving  access  to  justice  through:  (a)  piloting  innovative,  participatory  and
more  efficient  ways  to  provide 
the  vulnerable  and
marginalized  through  the  provision  of goods,  consultants'  services  and  Training
to the  Ministry  of Justice;  and  (b)  analytic  and  diagnostic  studies  focusing  on:  (i)
the  legal  aid  system,  in  particular  for vulnerable  groups;  (ii)  the  development  of
alternative  dispute  resolution  systems; 
institutional
arrangements  on  access  to  justice  particularly  for  vulnerable  groups  and  on
gender  issues  related  to justice;  and  (iv)  the  development  of specific  interventions
to  support  access  to  justice  for  the  Internally  Displaced  Persons,  refugees  and
other  vulnerable  groups  through  the  provision  of  consultants'  services  and
Training.

the  policies  and 

(iii) 

the  development  and  rollout  of  selected 

Expanding the  provision  of electronic  access  to  selected justice  services  through:
(a) 
the
improvement  of  the  infrastructure 
for  the  justice  sector  information  and
communications  technology;  and  (c)  the  construction  of  a  data  center  and  the
rehabilitation  and  upgrading  of a  facility  for disaster  recovery  center,  through  the
provision  of  goods,  consultants'  services  and  Training  and  the  carrying  out  of
works.

justice  e-services; 

(b) 

Part B:  Strengthenitig  Institutional  Capacity,  Efficiency  and Monitoring  and Evaluation

revenues; 

Improving  justice  sector  performance  through,  inter alia: (a)  a  sector  efficiency
and  expenditure  review  including  analyses  of  court  case  backlogs,  efficiency,
justice  system 
(b)  strengthening  justice  sector  monitoring  and
evaluation  capacity  and  quality  including  through  the  development  of  a justice
sector  performance  monitoring  framework  and  performance  indicators  and  the
preparation  of  a  strategy  and  action  plan 
(c)
strengthening  sector  capacity  to  undertake  and  apply  poverty  and  social  impact
analysis  to  improve  service  delivery  to  economically  and  socially  vulnerable
groups  such  as  Internally  Displaced  Persons;  and  (d) 
the  carrying  out of periodic
surveys  of, inter alia, court  users,  lawyers, judges,  court  staff, notaries,  and  other
justice  sector  service  providers  all  through  the  provision  of  goods,  consultants'
services  and Training.

to  improve  such  capacity; 

-5-

2. 

3. 

4. 

Strengthening  the  information  systems management  and  operational  capability  of
the  Ministry  of  Justice  to  support  the  provision  of  selected  justice  services
through the  provision of goods,  consultants'  services  and Training.

Carrying  out communications,  outreach  and  change  management  activities  aimed
at  facilitating stakeholder  engagement  in  the justice  sector reforms,  including  but
not  limited  to:  (a)  the  development  and  implementation  of  a  communications,
outreach  and  change  management  strategy;  and  (b)  the  conduct  of  stakeholder
workshops,  roundtables,  public  awareness  campaigns,  radio,  television  and  print
media/internet  programs,  all  through  the  provision  of consultants'  services  and
Training.

Strengthening  the professional  capacity  of judges,  staff of courts  and the  Ministry
of Justice  and  the  Justice  Academy  through,  inter alia: (a)  the  preparation  of a
justice  sector  gender  strategy  and  action  plan  based  on an  assessment  of gender-
based  barriers  to  employment  for judges,  lawyers  and  other justice  professionals
and  an  analysis  of training  and  sensitization  needs  on  gender  issues  for  justice
professionals;  (b)  the  development  of  training  courses  and  curricula  and  the
delivery  of training  for judges  and  other justice  professionals  aimed  at,  but  not
limited, 
in  economic  and
commercial  disputes  and  in  first-instance  courts;  and  (c) 
the  carrying  out  of
knowledge-sharing 
sector
professionals  in  Azerbaijan  and  between  Azerbaijan  and  other judiciaries, justice
training  institutions  and  professional  networks,  through  the  provision  of  goods,
consultants'  services  and Training.

the  quality  of  judicial  decisions 

activities  between 

and  other 

improving 

judges 

justice 

to 

Part C:  Expansion  and  Modernization  of Justice  Infrastructure

Construction  and  rehabilitation  of about  six  courthouses  and  court  complexes  at
the  locations  selected  in  accordance  with  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual 
the  carrying  out  of  works  and  the  provision  of  goods,
consultants'  services  and Training.

through 

Part D:  Project Management  and  Coordination

Strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice  in  Project  management,
monitoring  and  coordination  including audits  of:  (1) Project  financial  statements,
(2)  environmental  and  social  safeguard  compliance;  and  (3)  implementation  of
information  and  communications  technology  activities  under  the  Project,  all
through 
services,  and  Training,  and
financing  of Incremental  Operating  Costs.

the  provision  of  goods,  consultants' 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  vest  the  overall  responsibility  for  the  implementation  of the
Project  in  the  JMT  and  shall  maintain  the  JMT,  at  all  times  during  Project
implementation,  with  resources  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and
with  competent  staff in  adequate  numbers.  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
JMT shall  carry  out the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Operational  Manual  and,
except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,
repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of said Manual  without  the  prior  written  approval
of the Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  the  MOJ, shall  retain  a  chief information  and  technology
officer  within the JMT with responsibilities  acceptable  to  the Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  the  MOJ,  shall  establish  by  not  later  than  January  1,
2016,  and  thereafter maintain  an  information  technology  department  in the  MOJ,
with  resources  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  with  competent
staff in  adequate  numbers.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
EMP  and  RPF,  and  shall  ensure  that all  measures  necessary  for the  carrying  out
of the  EMP  and RPF  shall  be taken  in  a timely  manner.  Except  as the  Bank shall
otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the
EMP  and/or RPF.

Prior  to  the  commencement  of works  for  each proposed  site,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that:  (a)  the  related  Site-specific  EMPs  are  prepared  in  accordance  with
the  EMP;  (b)  the  proposed  design  and  site  for  said  works  incorporate  the
provisions  of  Site-specific  EMPs;  (c)  the  provisions  of said  Site-specific  EMPs
are  adequately  included  in  the  proposed  contract  for  said  works;  and  (d)  such
works  are carried  out  in accordance  with  the  respective  Site-specific  EMPs.  The
Bank  shall  conduct  a  post-review  of  the  documentation  related  to  the  design,

-7-

contracts  and  Site-specific  EMPs  for  selected  works  and  field  visits  of  such
selected  works  as  part of regular Project supervision.

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  RAPs:  (a)  shall  be  prepared  in  a  manner
satisfactory  to  the  Bank  in  accordance  with  the  RPF  prior  to  commencement  of
any  activities  for the  areas  where  physical relocation,  land  acquisition  and/or  loss
of  income  due  to  the  Project  activities  have  been  identified,  and;  (b)  shall  be
carried  out  in  a  timely  manner,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  In  the  event  that  land
acquisition  or  resettlement  is  required  for the  purposes  of carrying  out  activities
under the  Project, the  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

notify  the  Bank  or  ensure  that  the  Ministry  of Justice  notifies  the  Bank,
of any  intended  acquisition  of  land  or  resettlement,  in  whole  or  in  part,
and  of  each  Resettlement  Action  Plan  (if any)  prepared  in  accordance
with  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework;  of  any  of  the  following:
residences,  agricultural  holdings,  commercial  structures  and  businesses,
land  used  by  people  without  claim to  legal  title,  and  persons  affected  by
Project activities;

disclose,  or ensure that the Ministry  of Justice  discloses, the  Resettlement
Policy  Framework  and  each  Resettlement  Action  Plan  (if any)  prepared
under  the  Project  and  all  relevant  information  relating  thereto  in  a
manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  no  less  than  sixty  (60)  days  prior  to
carrying out any  land  acquisition  or resettlement;  and

ensure  that  the  Ministry  of  Justice  causes  all  land  acquisition  and
resettlement  under  the  Project  to  be  undertaken  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  and  procedures  contained 
the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  and  the  respective  Resettlement  Action  Plans,  and  that  all
relevant  information  is  adequately  provided  to  all  affected  persons,  and
potentially  affected  persons,  in a timely  and  adequate  manner.

in 

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project
Report  shall cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be furnished  to
the  Bank  not  later  than  one  month  after  the  end  of the  period  covered  by  such
report.

-8-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

Financial Management, Financial Reports  and Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)
days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the
Bank not  later than  six  months after the end  of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting  services  required  for the Project  and to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines and  with the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II and  III of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III, 
IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as  the  case may  be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

-9-

2. 

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  methods,  other  than International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
those  contracts specified  in the  Procurement  Plan:

Procurement Method

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject 
provisions:

to  the  following  additional

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

there  shall  be  no  eligibility  restrictions  based  on  nationality  of
bidder;

in  which 

entities 
the  State  or  a  State  official  owns  a
shareholding  of whatever  size  shall not be  invited to  participate
in  tenders  for  the  Government  unless  they  are  and  can  be
shown  to  be  legally  and  financially  autonomous  and  they
operate  under  commercial  law;

no  national  preferences  may  be  applied  on  the  basis  of  the
origin of products  or  labor;

joint  venture  partners  shall  be jointly  and  severally  liable  for
their obligations;

no  "participation  fee"  shall  be  required  of  bidders  for  the
purchase  of  bidding  documents.  The  only  charge  shall  be
equivalent  to  the  cost  of  producing  (copying)  the  bidding
documents;

in the  evaluation  of bids,  bids  may  not  be  rejected  where  they
differ  substantially  from the  estimated  prices  calculated  by  the
procuring  entity,  except  where  the  bid  prices  exceed  the
available  budget;

(vii) 

rebidding  shall  not  be carried  out without  prior  approval  of the
Bank;

(viii)  works  contracts  of  more  than  eighteen  (18)  months'  duration
shall  include  appropriate  price  adjustment provisions;

(ix) 

(x) 

prior  approval  of  the  Bank  shall  be  required  for  any
in  the  contract  scope  and  conditions  during
modification 
implementation;  and

standard  bidding  documents  approved  by  the  Bank  shall  be
used.

(b)  Shopping

-10-

Procurement Method

(c)  Procurement  under  Framework  Agreements  in accordance  with  procedures

which  have  been found  acceptable  to  the Bank

(d)  Direct Contracting

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants'  Services

Quality and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided in paragraph 2
below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b) Selection  under  a  Fixed
Budget; 
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Qualifications;  (e)  Selection  of UNICEF,  UNDP  and  UNODC;  (f)  Single-source
Selection  of consulting  firms;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for the  Selection
of Individual  Consultants.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts  which  shall  be subject  to  the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in paragraph 2  below.

2. 

The following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the

-11-

amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible Expenditures  in each  Category.

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works  and 
non-consulting  services
for the  Project

(2)  Consultants' 
services  including
audits, Training  and
Incremental  Operating
Costs for the Project

(3)  Unallocated 

(4)  Front-end  Fee 

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(net of VAT)

65,734,738 

49%

31,340,359 

100%

2,674,903

250,000 

Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b) of
the General  Conditions

(5)  Interest  Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate Collar 
premium 

0 

Amount due  pursuant to
Section 2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

100,000,00

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  from  the  Loan  Account  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

2. 

The Closing Date  is  December  31,  2018.

-12-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as necessary, to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

December  15,  2017 
June  15,  2018 
December  15,  2018 
June  15,  2019 
December  15,  2019 
June  15,  2020 
December  15,  2020 
June  15,  2021 
December  15,  2021 
June  15,  2022 
December  15,  2022 
June  15,  2023 
December  15,  2023 
June  15,  2024 
December  15,  2024 
June  15,  2025 
December  15,  2025 
June  15,  2026 
December  15,  2026 
June  15,  2027 
December  15,  2027 
June  15,  2028 
December  15,  2028 
June  15,  2029 

-13-

3.09%
3.17%
3.25%
3.33%
3.41%
3.50%
3.58%
3.67%
3.77%
3.86%
3.96%
4.05%
4.16%
4.26%
4.37%
4.48%
4.59%
4.70%
4.82%
4.94%
5.06%
5.19%
5.32%
5.47%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have not  been fully  withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the original  Installment  Share  specified  in the table  in  paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to  which a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Amounts of the  Loan withdrawn  within  two calendar  months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

3. 

(a) 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices are  issued  on  or after the  respective  Principal Payment  Date,  the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
withdrawals  made  after the adoption  of such  billing system.

longer  apply 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

-14-

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such amount.

-15-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January 2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth in the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"EMP"  means 

the  Borrower's
"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or 
Environmental  Management  Plan  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  dated  December  3,
2013,  which  contains  the  guidelines  for  the  carrying  out  of  environmental
assessments  and  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of Site-specific  EMP(s),
as  well  as  the  environmental  protection  measures  in  respect  of  the  Project,
including  chance  finding  of  cultural  property  and  potential  direct  and  indirect
environmental  impacts  from  the  carrying  out  of the  Project,  recommendation  of
mitigation  measures  for  each  negative  impact  identified,  as  well  as  measures  for
enhancing  each  identified  positive  impact, all  in a  manner acceptable  to the  Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions for  Loans", dated  March  12,  2012.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  incremental  expenses  incurred by the MOJ
on account  of Project  implementation,  including  bank  charges,  communications,
office  supplies,  vehicle  operation  and  maintenance  costs,  office  equipment
maintenance  and  repair,  fuel,  publication  of  procurement  and  other  project-
related  notices,  printing,  translation/interpretation,  travel  costs  and  such  other
expenditures  as  may  be  agreed  upon  and  included  in  an  annual  Project  budget
agreed  with  the  Bank,  but  excluding  salaries  and  allowances  of  officials  and
employees  of the Borrower.

"Internally  Displaced  Persons"  means  the persons  or  groups of persons who  have
been  forced  or  obliged  to  flee  or  to  leave  their  homes  or  places  of  habitual
residence,  in  particular  as  a  result  of  or  in  order  to  avoid  the  effects  of  armed
conflict,  situations  of generalized  violence,  violations  of human  rights  or  natural
internationally
or  human-made  disasters,  and  who  have  not  crossed  an 
recognized  state  border.

-16-

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

"JMT" means  the  Judicial  Modernization  Team  established  within  the  Ministry
of  Justice  of  the  Borrower,  through  the  Ministerial  Decree  No.  12-S,  on
February  4,  2006,  acting  as  the  coordinator  and  responsible  entity  for  the
implementation  of the  Project.

"Justice  Academy"  means  the  Borrower's  institution  established  by  virtue  of
Presidential  Decree  No  446,  dated  August  17,  2006  related  to  the  Development
of Justice  Bodies.

"Ministry  of Justice"  or "MOJ" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Justice  or  any
successor  thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods, Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  April  21,  2014  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  same  shall  be
updated  from  time  to time  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the
Project,  which  taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have  their:  (i) standard  of living
adversely  affected;  or  (ii)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (iii)  access  to  productive
temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (iv)  business,
assets  adversely  affected, 
occupation,  work  or  place  of residence  or  habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily
or permanently.

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "RAP"  means  a  site-specific  resettlement  action
plan  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  prepared  or  to  be  prepared  under  the  Project  in
accordance  with  the  RPF  describing  a  program  of actions,  measures  and  policies
for  compensation  of persons,  including  compensation  arrangements,  budget  and
cost  estimates,  and  sources  of  funding,  together  with  adequate  institutional,
proper
monitoring 
implementation  of, and  regular  feedback  on  compliance  with  its  terms  for  each
site.

capable  of  ensuring 

arrangements 

reporting 

and 

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  policy
framework  for  Resettlement  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  dated  December  3,  2013,
which  contains  the  procedures  and  guidelines  for  the  preparation,  adoption,
implementation  and  monitoring  of  a  Resettlement  Action  Plan,  all  in  a  manner
acceptable  to the  Bank.

-17-

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

the  Borrower's  site-specific  environmental
"Site-specific  EMP(s)"  means 
management  plan(s),  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  prepared  or  to  be  prepared  by  the
Borrower  during  the  Project  implementation  in  accordance  with  the  EMP  and
approved  by  the  Bank,  describing  environmental  mitigation,  monitoring  and
institutional  measures  for selected  road sections  under the  Project.

"Training"  means  expenses  incurred  by the  Borrower  in  connection  with  carrying
out training  activities  under the  Project,  including  travel  costs  and per diem  for
local  trainees  and  trainers,  study  tours,  workshops,  conferences,  rental  of
facilities  and  equipment  and training  materials and  related  supplies.

"UNICEF" means  the  United Nations  Children's Fund.

"UNDP"  means the  United Nations  Development  Programme.

20. 

"UNODC"  means  the United  Nations Office  on Drugs  and  Crime.

-18-

