OFICAL

WEATS1

LOAN  NUMBER  8335-PH

Loan Agreement

(KALAHI-CIDSS  National  Community  Driven  Development  Project)

REPUBLIC OF  THE PHILIPPINES

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

o Ad 

,2014

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

, 2014,  entered  into between
ld  J_ 
the  REPUBLIC  OF  THE  PHILIPPINES  ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL
BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower
and the Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

6f 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix 

to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the  Preamble  and  the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of four  hundred  seventy-nine  million
Dollars  ($479,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  2.07
of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  Project  described  in
Schedule  I to this  Agreement.

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.
The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.03. 

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment  Dates  are  February  15  and  August  15  in each  year.

-2-

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

provisions  of Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any  time  request any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change of the  interest rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or
(B)  all or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable' Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting of limits  on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar on  the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.
Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out the Project through  DSWD  in  accordance  with
the provisions  of Article V of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall,

-3  -

through  DSWD,  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV -TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Secretary  of Finance.

5.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Department of Finance
Department  of Finance  Building
Bangko  Sentral  Complex
Roxas  Blvd.
Manila,  Philippines

Facsimile:

(63-2)  523-9216

5.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Manila,  Republic  of the  Philippines,  as of the day  and  year

first above written.

REPUBLIC  OF THE  PHILIPPINES

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  CEgAR 

/. 

INARISIMA

Title: 

SECRETAILy,  DOF

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

U=MAN W  DIONE

Title:  ACTIk)6  COUNTY  DIReCTOR

PH  LI Pp4j Eg

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project 

targeted
is 
municipalities  to  achieve  improved  access  to  services  and to  participate  in  more  inclusive
local  planning,  budgeting  and implementation.

to  empower  communities 

in 

The Project  consists  of the  following parts:

Part 1.  Barangay  (Community)  Sub-Grants for Planning  and Investment

(a) 

Provision of Sub-grants to  beneficiary  Barangays  to:  (i)  carry out  specific
activities  for  the  orientation,  consultation,  participatory  priority-setting,  action  planning,
review  and  approval  of Sub-projects  at  Barangay  and  inter-Barangay  (municipal)  levels,
including  the  provision  of  technical  assistance  to  ensure  the  quality  of  design  and
development  of community  infrastructure,  facilities,  services  and  other  priority  activities
identified  by  communities;  and (ii)  develop  and/or improve community-identified  priority
identified  by
infrastructure, 
communities,  including  activities  in  response  to  an  Eligible  Crisis  or  Emergency,  as
needed.

services  and  other  priority  activities 

facilities  and 

(b) 

Provision  of  training  and  other  technical  support  to  strengthen  the

capacity of community  volunteers  to facilitate the  implementation  of Sub-projects.

Part 2.  Local Capacity Building  and Implementation Support

Carrying  out of specific  activities to  strengthen  the  capacity  of local  government
units  and  area  coordination  teams  to  conduct  poverty  reduction  action  planning,  budget
including  to  facilitate  and  oversee  the
execution  and  public  financial  management, 
planning  and  implementation  of  Sub-projects;  carrying  out  of  specific  activities  to
strengthen  the  capacity  of  relevant  sector  and  sub-national  units  and  staff  of  national
government  agencies  to  enhance  their  community  based  activities;  and  review  and
revision  of  legal  instruments,  policies  and  guidelines  to  integrate  and  mainstream
community-driven  development  principles.

Part 3.  Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation

Carrying  out  of  the  day-to-day  coordination,  administration,  procurement,
financial  management,  environmental  and  social  management;  communication  and
to  the  Project's  objectives,
to  sensitize  stakeholders 
dissemination  of  information 
strategies  and  lessons  learned;  monitoring,  evaluation  and  audit  of  the  Project  at  the
national,  regional  and  sub-regional  levels,  including the  carrying  out  of relevant  studies

-6-

for  the  purposes  of the  Project  such  as  reviews  of the  technical  quality  of infrastructure,
economic  rates  of return  on  investments,  process  monitoring  of procedural  variations  in
different  contexts  (conflict,  disasters,  indigenous  populations),  and  analyses of outcomes
of  different  methodological  approaches;  and  provision  of  operational  assistance  to
regional  and  municipal  offices  of  DSWD  in  disaster  affected  areas  to  reestablish
operational  capacity.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  period  of implementation  of  the
Project,  a  National  Steering  Committee  with  a  mandate  and  composition
satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Without  limitation  to  the  foregoing,  the  National
Steering  Committee  shall:  (a)  be  chaired  by  the  Secretary  of  DSWD  and
comprise representatives  of relevant national  government  and oversight agencies,
the  Recipient's  National  Commission  on  Indigenous  Peoples,  the  leagues  of
provinces,  municipalities  and  barangays,  and  civil  society  organizations;  and  (b)
be  responsible  for,  inter alia: (i) providing  overall  policy  direction  and oversight
of the  Project;  (ii)  facilitating  the  coordination  of  Project  activities  among  the
the  National  Steering  Committee,  and  making
entities 
recommendations  for  actions  to  resolve  policy  and  strategic  issues  that  require
inter-agency  decision;  and  (iii)  reviewing  annually,  or  more  often  if  required,
progress  made towards  achieving the  Project's objectives.

represented 

in 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  period  of  implementation  of the
Project,  a  national  and  regional  Project  management  teams  staffed  and  managed
by  DSWD,  such  teams  to  have  functions  and  resources  set  forth  in  the  Project
Operations  Manual,  to  be  responsible  for approving  the  Project  Financing  Plans,
and providing  technical  advice  and  guidance  to  the  national  and regional  Project
management  offices  and  the  area coordination  teams  referred  to  in paragraphs  3-
5 below.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  period  of implementation  of  the
Project,  national  Project  management  office  within  DSWD,  such  office  to  have
functions,  resources  and  staff  in  numbers  and  with  terms  of  reference  and
qualifications  as  set forth  in the  Project  Operations  Manual,  to be  responsible  for
managing the  national  implementation  of the  Project  and providing  inter-regional
coordination  for such  implementation.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  period  of  implementation  of  the
Project, a regional  Project management  office  and, where  necessary,  sub-regional
in  which  the  Project
Project  management  offices 
Municipalities  are  located,  all  such  offices  with  functions,  resources  and  staff in
numbers  and  with terms  of reference  and  qualifications  as set  forth in  the  Project

in  each  of  the  Regions 

-8-

Operations  Manual,  to  be  responsible  for  providing  technical  guidance  for,  and
supervising  and monitoring  the  regional  implementation  of the  Project.

5. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  throughout  the  period  of  implementation  of  the
Project,  an  area  coordination  team  in  each  Project  Municipality,  with  functions,
resources  and  staff  in  numbers  and  with  terms  of reference  and  qualifications  as
set forth  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  to  be  responsible  for  overseeing  and
supporting the  implementation  of Project  activities at Barangay  level.

B. 

Project Operations Manual

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  arrangements
and  procedures  set  out in the  Project Operations  Manual  (provided,  however,  that
in  case  of any  conflict  between  the  arrangements  and  procedures  set  out  in  the
Project  Operations  Manual  and  the  provisions  of this  Agreement,  the  provisions
of this  Agreement  shall  prevail),  and  shall  not  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the
Project  Operations  Manual  or  any  of  its  provisions  without  prior  approval  in
writing by the  Bank.

Project Financing  Plans

I  of  each  year  during 

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its  approval,  not  later
the
than  November 
Project,  a  Project  Financing  Plan  containing  all  eligible  Project  activities  and
including a
expenditures  planned  for the  following  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower, 
specification  of the  source  or  sources  of financing  for  all  eligible  expenditures;
provided,  however,  that  in  case  of any  conflict  between  the  Project  Financing
Plans  and  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement
shall  prevail.

implementation  of 

the 

The  Borrower  shall  not  make  or  allow  to  be  made  any  change  to  the  approved
Project  Financing  Plans  in  respect  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  without  prior
approval  in writing by the  Bank.

Sub-projects

For  purposes  of Part  I of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  select  Sub-projects  and
make  Sub-grants  to Beneficiaries,  in accordance  with  the  criteria  and  procedures
and  on  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  including the following:

(a) 

An  activity  or  activities  shall  be  selected  only  if it  meets  the  eligibility
criteria set  forth  in the  Project  Operations  Manual.

C. 

1 .

2. 

D. 

1. 

-9-

(b)  Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Section  2.05  of  the  General
include  any  activities  and
shall  not 
Conditions,  a  Sub-project 
expenditures  on  the  negative  list  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operations
Manual  and the  ESMF.

(c) 

A  Sub-grant  to  a  Beneficiary  shall  be  approved  only  if:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

a  Memorandum  of  Agreement,  with  terms  and  conditions
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  has  been  entered  into  between  DSWD
and  the  Municipality  in  which  the  Beneficiary  is  located,  and
to  comply  with  the  relevant
said  Municipality  has  agreed 
provisions  of  the  Project  Operations  Manual  applicable  to  Sub-
projects;

plan 

(including  pest  management  plan 

the  Beneficiary  has  prepared  an  environmental  and  social
as
management 
applicable)  in  accordance  with  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework,  in  the  event  that  the  environmental
and  social  screening  carried  out  in  accordance  with  said
framework  concludes  that such  plan  is  required;

the  Beneficiary  has  prepared  a  land  acquisition,  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  plan  in  accordance  with the  ESMF,  in the  event the
Sub-project  creates  a  Displaced  Person or  Persons;  and

the  Beneficiary  has  carried  out  consultations  and  a  process  of
informed  participation  with  Indigenous  Peoples,  in  accordance
with  the  ESMF,  and  prepared  an  Indigenous  Peoples  plan  in  the
event  that  the  Sub-project  impacts  or  may  impact  such  peoples,
to ensure  that the  design  and  implementation  of the  Sub-project
adequately  addresses  the  needs  and  cultural  preferences  of such
peoples.

(d) 

Each  Sub-grant  shall  be  made  on  conditions  whereby  the  Borrower,
Implementation
through  DSWD, 
Agreement  with  the  Beneficiary  to  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  the
interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  including without  limitation  the
rights to:

into  a  Sub-project 

shall  enter 

(i) 

require  the  Beneficiary  to  have  in  place  prior  to  approval  of a
Sub-grant  and,  thereafter maintain,  a Sub-project  implementation
as  set  forth  in  the
team,  with  responsibilities  and  resources 
Project Operations  Manual;

-10-

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii) 

(ix) 

require  the  Beneficiary  to  carry  out  its  Sub-project  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in accordance  with  sound technical,
financial,  managerial,  social  and  environmental  standards  and
practices,  including  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;

to  provide  or  cause  to  be  provided,
require  the  Beneficiary 
promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other
resources  required for the  Sub-project;

require that  the  goods,  works  and  services  to  be  financed  out  of
the  proceeds  of the  Sub-grant  shall  be  procured  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of  this  Schedule  and  the
Project  Operations  Manual,  and  shall  be  used  exclusively  in  the
carrying  out of the  Sub-project;

implement  an
require  that,  where  applicable,  the  Beneficiary 
environmental  and  social  management  plan  (including  pest
management  plan  as  applicable),  land  acquisition,  resettlement
and  rehabilitation  plan  and  Indigenous  Peoples  plan  (including  a
program  of  consultation  with  and  informed  participation  by
in  accordance  with  the
if  applicable, 
Indigenous  Peoples), 
ESMF;

inspect, by itself or jointly with  representatives  of the  Bank such
goods  and  the  sites,  works,  plans  and  construction  included  in
the  Sub-project,  the  operation  thereof and  any  relevant  records
and  documents;

require  the  Beneficiary  to  provide  the  Borrower  and the  Bank  all
such  information  as  the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  may  reasonably
request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and  to  the  administration  and
operations  of the  Beneficiary  and  to  the  benefits  to  be  derived
from  its respective  Sub-project;

to  maintain  policies  and  procedures
require  the  Beneficiary 
adequate  to  enable  it to  monitor  and  evaluate  in  accordance  with
indicators  acceptable  to the Bank, the progress  of the  Sub-project
and  the achievement  of its objectives;

require the  Beneficiary  to  maintain:  (A)  a  financial  management
system and prepare  financial  reports  in  a format  acceptable  to  the
Borrower  and the  Bank,  both  in  a manner  adequate  to  reflect  the
operations,  resources  and expenditures  related to the  Sub-project;

and  (B)  at  the  Bank's  or  the  Borrower's  request,  have  such
financial  reports  audited  by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to
the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing
standards  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish  the
statements  as  so audited  to the  Borrower  and the  Bank;

require  the  Beneficiary  to  complete  all  Sub-project  activities and
submit  all  relevant  financial  management  documentation  prior to
the  Closing  Date,  and  in  the  event  that  Sub-project  activities  are
not  completed  by  the  Closing  Date,  to  refund  any  unused  and
unaccounted  for Sub-grant  funds to the  Borrower;  and

suspend  or terminate the  right  of the Beneficiary  to  the use  of the
proceeds  of  the  Sub-grant,  or  refund  any  proceeds  of  the  Sub-
grant, upon  failure  by  such  Beneficiary  to  perform  its  obligations
the
under 
Borrower.

Implementation  Agreement  with 

its  Sub-project 

(x) 

(xi) 

2. 

Without  limitation  on the  foregoing  provisions  of paragraph  I of this  Part  D,  for
the  purposes  of Emergency  Sub-projects,  the  Borrower shall,  through  DSWD:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

ensure  that  the  Emergency  Response  Sub-projects  are  carried  out  in
accordance  with the  Disaster  Response  Operations  Sub-manual;

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of  the
Disaster Response  Operations  Sub-manual  without prior written  approval
by the  Bank;  and

not  undertake  any  activities  under the  Emergency  Response  Sub-projects
unless  and  until:  (i)  an  Eligible  Crisis  or  Emergency  has  occurred;  and
(ii)  the  Borrower  has  ensured  the  preparation  and  disclosure  of  all
instruments  required  for  said
environmental  and  social  safeguards 
activities  in  accordance  with  this  Agreement  and  as  detailed  in  the
Emergency  Sub-Manual,  and  has  ensured  the  implementation  of  any
actions  which  are  required  to  be taken  under  said  instruments.

E. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

- 12-

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on the  basis  of indicators  acceptable  to the  Bank  and  set  forth  in
the  Project  Operations  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the period  of one
(1)  calendar  quarter,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank not  later  than  sixty  (60)
days after the end  of the period covered  by  such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of
each  calendar quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering
the quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover the period  of one  (1) fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the
Bank not later than  six  (6) months  after the end  of such period.
As  part  of the  annual  audit  referred  to  in  the  preceding  paragraph  and  without
limitation  thereof, the  Borrower  shall  submit to  the Bank  a  value-for-money  audit
inspection,  evaluation  of  sustainability,  and  adequacy  of
covering  physical 
maintenance  and  monitoring  with  respect  to  at  least  ten  percent  (10%)  of Sub-
projects.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

All  goods,  works  and  non-
Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
consulting  services  required for the Project  and to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the  provisions  of
this Section.

- 13  -

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

3. 

4. 

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer to  the corresponding  method described  in Sections  11  and  III  of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or  Sections  II,  III,  IV  and  V  of  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  as the  case  may be.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following methods,  other than  International  Competitive  Bidding,
may  be  used  for procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for
(a)  National  Competitive
those  contracts  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan: 
Bidding, subject  to the  additional  provisions  set forth  in paragraph  3 of this Part
B;  (b)  Shopping;  (c)  Direct  Contracting;  and  (d)  Community  Participation
procedures  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the
Project Operations  Manual.

The 

following
Additional  National  Competitive  Bidding  Provisions. 
provisions  shall  apply  to  the  procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting
(a)  eligibility
services  under  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures: 
screening  shall  not  be  applied,  provided  however  that  bids  that  do  not  contain
any  of  the  following  documents  shall  not  pass  the  documentary  compliance
check:  (i) evidence  of the required  financial,  technical  or production  capability;
(ii)  audited  financial  statements;  (iii)  credit  line  or  cash  deposit  certificate;  (iv)
bid  security;  and  (v)  authority  of the  bid  signatory;  (b)  a  ceiling may  be applied
to  bid  prices  provided  the  following  conditions  are  met:  (i) bidding  documents
are  obtainable  free  of charge  on a  freely  accessible  website;  (ii)  the  agency  has
procedures  in  place  to  ensure  that the  ABC  is  based  on Engineer's  Estimate;  (iii)
the  agency  has  trained  cost  estimators  on  estimating  prices  and  analyzing  bid
variance;  and  (iv)  the  agency has  established  a  system  to  monitor and  report  bid
prices  relative  to  ABC  and  Engineer's  Estimate;  (c)  domestic  or  regional
preferences  shall  not be applied  in the  evaluation  of bids, and  other preference  in
effect  in the  Philippines  shall  not  be  used  except  with  prior  concurrence  of the
Bank;  (d) foreign  suppliers  and  contractors  shall  be  allowed  to  participate,  if

- 14  -

interested,  without  first  being  required  to  associate  with,  or  enter  into  joint
venture,  with  local  firms,  and  foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  bid,  even
without  registration,  licensing,  and  other  government  authorizations,  leaving
these  requirements  for  after award  and before  signing  of contract;  (e)  alternative
procurement  methods  defined  in the  implementing  rules  and  regulations  such  as
Limited Source  Bidding, Direct  Contracting and  Shopping as acceptable,  and the
use  of the  other  alternative  methods  shall  require  prior  Bank  concurrence;  and
(f)  the  e-bulletin  board,  e-catalogue  of  prices,  subscriber's  registry  and  e-
payments  features  of the Recipient's  government  electronic  procurement  system
(PhilGEPS)  may  be used with  prior  Bank concurrence  as described  in the  Project
Operations Manual.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of  consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Budget; 
Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms; (f)  Procedures  set
forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  for the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts which  shall be  subject to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General
The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this

C. 

1 .

2. 

D. 

A. 

1. 

-15 

-

2. 

Agreement  pursuant to such  instructions),  to finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set
forth  in  the table  in  paragraph  2 below.
The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each Category:

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

(1) Goods,  non-
consulting  services, 
consultants'  services, 
Training and  Operating
Costs
(2)  Sub-grants  under  Part 
1(a) of the Project 
(3)  Front-end  Fee 

(4)  Interest Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate Collar 
premium 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

97610000

380,192,500 

1,197,500 

0 

479,000,000

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

100%

100% of amounts
disbursed
Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b) of
the  General Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant to
Section  2.07(c) of this
Agreement

B. 

1. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $25,000,000  equivalent
may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior to  this  date  but  on  or  after  January  1,
2014,  for Eligible  Expenditures  under Categories  I and 2.

2. 

The  Closing Date  is  December  31,  2019.

- 16-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date[,  such  repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct
any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On each  February  15  and  August  15
Beginning  August  15,  2024
through August  15,  2038 

On  February  15,  2039 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

3.33%
3.43%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

first  Principal  Payment  Date, 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this  Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall 

repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such withdrawal  by  a fraction,  the numerator  of which is
the original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

-17-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the  Loan  withdrawn  within two calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

4. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices are  issued  on  or after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the
to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
withdrawals  made after the  adoption  of such billing system.

longer  apply 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior to the  Conversion  by  either:  (a) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or  (b)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate component  of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall apply  separately  to the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

-18-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

"ABC"  means the  approved budget for the contract, as  defined  in  Section 5(a)  of
and  Regulations  of  Government
Implementing  Rules 
the  Borrower's 
Procurement  Reform  Act (GRPA),  Republic  Act No  9184.

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Barangay"  means  an  administrative  unit  within  a  city  or  municipality  in  the
territory of the Borrower.

"Beneficiary"  means  a  Barangay  or  an  Indigenous  Peoples  organization  selected
in accordance  with the  policies  and  procedures  set  forth  in the Project  Operations
Manual,  to receive  financing  for the carrying  out of a  Sub-project  under  Part  1 of
the Project;  and  "Beneficiaries"  means,  collectively,  all  such  Beneficiaries.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011.

"Disaster  Response  Operations  Sub-manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual
referred  to  in  Section  I.D.2  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement  and  included  in  the
Project  Operations  Manual,  as  such  manual  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time
with the  written  approval  of the  Bank,  setting  forth  detailed  arrangements  for the
approval  and  implementation  of  Emergency  Response  Sub-projects,  including:
(a)  special  institutional  arrangements  for  coordinating  and  implementing  the
Emergency  Response  Sub-projects;  (b)  specific  activities  which may  be  included
in  the  Emergency  Response  Sub-projects,  which  may  include  certain  activities
which  are  otherwise  excluded  in  respect  of  Sub-projects  under  Part  1  (a)  of the
Project  pursuant  to  Section  I.D. 1(b)  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  Eligible
Expenditures  required  therefor ("Emergency  Expenditures"),  and  any  procedures
for  such  inclusion;  (c)  application  of the  ESMF  to the  Emergency  Response  Sub-
projects;  and  (d)  other  arrangements  necessary  to ensure  proper coordination  and
implementation  of the Emergency  Response  Sub-projects.

- 19-

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"Displaced  Person"  includes  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project,  has  experienced  or would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts
caused  by:  (a) the  involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i) relocation  or  loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or
means of livelihood,  whether  or  not  such  person  must  move  to another  location;
or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and
Protected  Areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of such  person;
and "Displaced  Persons"  means, collectively,  all  such  Displaced  Persons.

"DSWD"  means 
Development,  and any  successor thereto.

the  Borrower's  Department  of  Social  Welfare 

and

"Eligible  Crisis  or  Emergency"  means  an  event  that  has  caused,  or  is  likely  to
impact  to  the
imminently  cause,  a  major  adverse  economic  and/or  social 
Borrower,  associated  with a  natural  or man-made  crisis or disaster.

"Emergency  Expenditure"  means any  of the  eligible  expenditures  set  forth  in the
Disaster  Response  Operations  Sub-manual  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  I.D.2  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,  and  required  for  Emergency  Sub-
projects.
"Emergency  Sub-project"  means  a  specific  community  development  activity  or
activities  to  be  carried  out  in  the event  of an  Eligible  Crisis  or Emergency  under
Part  I (a)  of the  Project.

"Engineer's  Estimate"  means  the  cost  estimate  that  the  design  engineer  has
calculated  for a particular  infrastructure  or work  project.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "ESMF"
the  Borrower  and
each  means  the  framework  document  duly  adopted  by 
publically  disclosed  on  May  21,  2013,  which  sets  forth  arrangements  and
procedures,  satisfactory to the Bank,  to assess,  mitigate,  manage  and  monitor the
includes  the
environmental  and  social  impacts  of  the  Project,  and  which 
Indigenous  Peoples  Policy  Framework  and  the  Land  Acquisition,  Resettlement
and  Rehabilitation  Policy  Framework.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012.

"Indigenous  Peoples"  means  distinct,  vulnerable,  social  and  cultural  groups
(a)  self-
which  possess  the  following  characteristics 
identification  as members  of a  distinct  indigenous  cultural  group and  recognition
of this  identity  by  others;  (b)  collective  attachment  to  geographically  distinct
habitats or ancestral  territories  in the  project  area and  to the  natural  resources  in

in  varying  degrees: 

- 20  -

these  habitats  and territories  (c)  customary  cultural,  economic,  social,  or political
institutions that  are  separate  from  those of the  dominant  society  and  culture;  and
(d)  an  indigenous  language,  often  different  from  the  official  language  of  the
country  or  region;  and  including  groups  that  have  lost  collective  attachment  to
territories  because  of  forced
geographically  distinct  habitats  or  ancestral 
severance.

the  framework  document
"Indigenous  Peoples  Policy  Framework"  means 
included  in  the  ESMF,  which  sets  forth  the  arrangements  and  procedures,
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  address  any  social  or  cultural  impact  on  Indigenous
Peoples  caused  by  the  execution  of  the  Project,  including  screening  and
monitoring  procedures  and  the  development  of Indigenous  Peoples  development
plan  or plans, where  applicable.

"KALAHI-CIDSS"  means  Kapitbisig  Laban  sa  Kahirapan  - Comprehensive  and
is  the  Borrower's  on-going
Integrated  Delivery  of  Social  Services,  which 
program  of support to  the poorest  Barangays,  established  by  Executive Order  443
of 1997,  for the  carrying out of community-based  projects.

"Land  Acquisition,  Resettlement  and  Rehabilitation  Policy  Framework"  means
the  framework  document  included  in  the  ESMF,  which  sets  forth  the  principles
land  or  other  asset
and  procedures,  satisfactory 
acquisition  from,  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of,  and  compensation  to
Displaced  Persons,  as  well  as  reporting  and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure
compliance  with  said principles  and  procedures.

the  Bank,  governing 

to 

"Limited  Source  Bidding"  means  a  method  of  procurement  of  goods  and
consultants'  services  that  involves  direct  invitation  to  bid  by  the  procuring  entity
form  a  list  of  pre-selected  suppliers  or  consultant  with  known  experience  and
proven  capability  on  the requirement  of the  particular  contact  as provided  for  in
Section  49.1  of  the  Borrower's  Implementing  Rules  and  Regulations  of
Government  Procurement  Reform  Act  (GRPA),  Republic  Act  No. 9184.

"Local  Government  Units"  and  "LGUs"  mean  the  political  subdivisions  of the
Borrower  at the  provincial,  city,  municipal  or  Barangay  level;  and  "LGU"  means
any  one  of such  LGUs.

"Municipalities"  means  LGUs  several  of which  constitute  a  Province  and  which
are made  up of several  Barangays.

"National  Steering  Committee"  means  the  committee  to  be  maintained  by  the
Borrower  pursuant to Section  1.A.  I of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

-21  -

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  and  documented  expenditures  incurred
by  DSWD  for  hiring  of  contractual  personnel  (but  excluding  staff  salaries);
travel;  materials  and  supplies;  and  advocacy  activities,  for  purposes  of
implementing  the  Project  and  which  expenditures  would  not  have  been  incurred
absent the  Project.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  May  16,  2013  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be
updated  from  time to  time  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Financing  Plan"  means  each  annual  financing  plan,  together  with  the
related  budget,  for the  Project approved  by  the  Bank  pursuant to  the provisions  of
Section  I.C of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Project  Municipalities"  means  the  Municipalities  listed  in  the  Annex  to  the
Operations  Manual  entitled  "Project  Municipalities",  as  such  list  may  be revised
up  with the written  approval  of the  Bank.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means the  Borrower's  manual  referred to  in Section
I.B  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement,  as such  manual  may be  revised  from  time to
time  with the  written  approval  of the  Bank, containing  detailed  arrangements  and
procedures  for  institutional  coordination  and  day-to-day  execution  of the  Project,
financial  management,
including  Project  budgeting,  disbursement 
procurement,  environmental  and  social  management,  monitoring,  evaluation,
implementation
reporting 
arrangements  for  Subprojects,  and  such  other  administrative,  financial,  technical
and  organizational  arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be  required  for  the
Project.

communication, 

eligibility 

criteria 

and 

and 

and 

"Protected  Areas"  means  environmentally  sensitive  areas  protected  by  the
Borrower's  Law No.  RA No  7586  as such  law  may be revised  from time to  time.

"Regions"  means  the  fourteen  (14)  regions  in  the  territory  of  the  Borrower
without  executive  powers  (with  the  exception  of  the  Autonomous  Region  in
for
Muslim  Mindanao), 
administrative  convenience.

that  serve  primarily 

the  Provinces 

to  organize 

- 22  -

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

"Sub-grant"  means  a  grant  made  available  by  the  Borrower  to  finance  the
reasonable  costs  of  goods,  works  and  services  required  for  a  Sub-project  under
Part  I of the  Project;  and  "Sub-grants"  means  more than  one  Sub-grant.

"Sub-project"  means  a  specific  community  development  activity  or  activities
which  has  or  have  been  selected  to  receive  a  Sub-grant  under  Part  I (a)  of the
Project.

"Sub-project  Implementation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered
into  between  the  relevant  Beneficiary  and  the  Borrower,  through  DSWD,
pursuant  to  Section  L.D  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  for  purposes  of
implementing  Sub-projects.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  goods  and  services  required  for  the
participation  of  personnel  involved  in  training  activities,  workshops  or  study
tours  under  the  Project,  including  travel  and  subsistence  costs  for  training,
workshop  and  study  tour  participants,  costs associated  with  securing the  services
facilities,  preparation  and
of  trainers, 
reproduction  of training  and  workshop  materials,  and  other  costs directly  related
to  training  course,  workshop  or  study  tour  preparation  and  implementation,  but
excluding  salaries  of consultants.

rental  of  training  and  workshop 

