OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8406-JM

Loan Agreement

(Strategic  Public  Sector Transformation  Project)

between

JAMAICA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  gepktn,r3 

, 2014

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  & 

e,  L 

,  2014,  between  JAMAICA  ("Borrower")  and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").

WHEREAS:  (A)  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  have  agreed  on  a  financing  package  as
described  herein  to  finance  some  of the  activities  described  in  Schedule  1 to  this Agreement,  and
(B)  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  have  identified  additional  resources  to  finance  the  remaining
activities  described  in  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement  and  intend  to  finalize  the  commitment  of
these  additional  resources within  the  coming months.

THEREFORE,  the  Borrower  and the  Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of thirty-five  million  Dollars  ($35,000,000),  as  such
amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  2.07  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in
financing  the project  described  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee payable  by the  Borrower  shall be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the Loan,  the  interest payable
by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section
3.02(e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates are  February  1 and August  1 in each year.

17 

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate prudent  debt management:

(i) 

a  change  of  the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;

(ii) 

a change  of the  interest  rate basis applicable  to:

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

all or any portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn
and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice
versa;  or

all or any portion of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan withdrawn
and  outstanding  from a Variable  Rate based  on  a Reference  Rate
and  the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed
Reference  Rate  and the  Variable  Spread,  or vice versa;  or

all  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based on  a Variable  Spread  to
a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Spread;  and

(b) 

(c) 

(iii) 

the  setting  of  limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate
applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  by the  establishment  of an  Interest Rate  Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar for which the  Borrower  has  requested that the premium  be  paid out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05(c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to time  for the purpose  in the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project, through  MOFP,  with  the  participation  of:  (a)  NLA
and TAJ  in  respect of Part 4  of the  Project;  (b)  BSJ  in  respect of Part  5(a)  of the Project;

-2-

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

and  (c)  JCA  in respect of Part  5(b)  of the  Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of
Article  V  of the General  Conditions  and  the pertinent  MOUs.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  is  carried  out in accordance  with the  provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional  Events  of Suspension consist  of the following:

The  NLA  Legislation,  the  TAJ  Legislation,  the  BSJ  Legislation  or  the  JCA
Legislation,  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived
so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank  and  after
consultation  with  the  Borrower,  the  ability  of  the  NLA,  TAJ,  BSJ  or  JCA,
respectively  to  perform  any of its obligations  under  the pertinent MOU.

Any Participating  Agency shall,  in the  opinion  of the  Bank and  after consultation
with  the  Borrower,  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of its  obligations  under  the
respective  MOU.

4.02.  The Additional  Events  of Acceleration  consist of the following:

An event  specified  in paragraph  (a)  of Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

An event  specified  in paragraph  (b)  of Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and
is  continuing  for  a  period of 60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by
the Bank  to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of  Effectiveness  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
Operational  Manual  has  been  adopted  by  the  Borrower  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

5.02.  Without  prejudice  to the  provisions  of the General  Conditions,  the Effectiveness  Deadline
is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this  Agreement,  but  in  no  case  later  than
eighteen  (18)  months  after the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan, which  expires  on January  7,
2016.

ARTICLE  VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is the  Minister of Finance  and  Planning.

-3-

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Finance  and Planning
30 National  Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica

Facsimile:

876-924-9291

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at 
first above  written.

'  b 1di 

u 

(.ld  S 

F  Aerlea, 

as  of the  day  and  year

JAMAICA

By

Aut 
Name:  bI. 

pegntative

had  LIkpe

&Oe 

Title:  md.<;b4  Aoanandfk

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

e-t 

.ยง~e-

0 

Title:________

By

-5-

I

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  strengthen  public  resource  management  and  support
selected  public  sector  institutions  in  facilitating  a  more  enabling  environment  for  private  sector
growth.

The  Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part 1:  Strengthening the Public Investment  Management  System

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Design  and  implementation  of  a  Public  Investment  Management  System  ("PIMS")
through:  (i)  the  development  of an  information  technology  platform  which  will  provide
information  of  public  investment  across  the  public  investment  cycle  and  link  said
information  to  the  Borrower's  budget  and  financial  systems;  (ii)  the  migration  of  the
Borrower's  web-based  database  to  the  PIMS  inforihation  system;  and  (iii)  the  carrying
out  of  capacity  building  activities  to  improve  the  Borrower's  public  investment  and
analytical  capacity  for implementation  of the PIMS.

Design  and  implementation  of  a  public  investment  management  training  program  for
public  sector  employees  through:  (i)  the  design  of the  public  investment  management
training  modules;  (ii)  training  on  public  investment  preparation;  (iii)  training  for  project
management;  and  (iv) training on public  investment  monitoring.

Reviewing  legislation  and  carrying  out  dissemination  activities  to  integrate  the  PIMS
with  the  Borrower's  administrative  systems,  including:  (i)  the  Borrower's  procurement
system;  and (ii)  the Borrower's  human  resources system.

the  monitoring  of  public 

investment  through  citizen  participation,
Strengthening 
including  the  carrying  out  of:  (i)  external  audits  of projects;  and  (ii)  public  investment
performance  surveys.

(i) Designing  a  fund  for  the  funding  of pre-investment  financial  and  economic  analysis
and  post-investment  evaluations  of the  Borrower's  public  investments;  and  (ii)  carrying
out:  (A)  pre-investment  financial  and  economic  analysis  of the  Borrower's  proposed
public  investments  to  identify priority public  investments  based  on the  Borrower's  long-
term development agenda;  and (B)  post-investment  evaluations  of the effectiveness  of the
Borrower's  completed  public  investments.

(f) 

Provision  of  technical  assistance  for  the  implementation  of  the  Public  Financial
Management  Action Plan.

Part 2:  Strengthening the Budget  Preparation Process  and Results-Based  Budg-etin2

(a) 

Updating  the  Borrower's  budget  manual  to  include:  (i)  guidelines  to  align  annual  and
medium-term  budgeting;  (ii)  procedures  for  budget  preparation  and  execution;  and  (iii)
guidelines  on the new  budget preparation  cycle.

-6-

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(a) 

Institutionalizing  baseline  forward  estimates 
process.

in  the  Borrower's  budget  preparation

Developing  and  implementing  procedures  to:  (i)  achieve  better  resource  allocation
through  greater  aligning  of policy,  planning  and  budgeting  in  MDAs;  (ii)  incorporate
procurement  planning  into  the  planning  process  and  linking  procurement  plans  to  the
budget  process;  (iii)  set  medium-term  expenditure  ceilings  for  MDAs;  (iv)  improve
alignment  of recurrent  budgets  with  public  investment  expenditures;  and  (v)  carry  out  a
review  of human  resources required  by the  Borrower's  budget office.

Provision  of training on results-based  budgeting to the Borrower's  staff, selected  pursuant
to  the criteria  set forth  in the Operational  Manual.

Carrying  out a  review  of the  staffing  levels  in  select  MDAs  to  obtain  accurate  employee
numbers  and compensation  costs for  on-going budget preparation  and  execution.

Establishment  of  a  participatory  budgeting  process  through  the  carrying  out  of thematic
meetings  including  citizens,  NGO's, universities  and  business representatives.

Part 3: Adaptive Public Sector Approaches  to Promote Fiscal  Sustainability

Supporting  the  Borrower's  change  management  process  to  implement  public  sector
reforms  on  the  public  investment  management  system,  the  budget  preparation  process
and  results-based  budgeting,  property  tax  compliance  and  administration,  and  industrial
growth  and  trade  facilitation,  all  through  the  carrying  out of activities  selected  following
the  procedures  and  criteria set forth in the  Operational  Manual,  including:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

the  carrying  out  of a  consultation  process  within  the  Borrower's  public  sector to
assess the status  of implementation  of public sector  reforms;

the  improvement  of the  Borrower's  communication  and feedback  mechanisms  to
strengthen the  interrelationships  within  the Borrower's  public  sector;

the  identification  and  implementation  of activities  to  support the  sustainability  of
public  sector reforms;  and

(A)  the  identification  and  assessment  of  activities  to  address  challenges  in  the
implementation  of public  sector  reforms;  and  (B)  based  on  said  assessment,  the
design  and  implementation  of a  strategy  to carry  out said activities.

(b) 

Provision  of  technical  assistance  to  the  Borrower  to  address  public  sector  reform
implementation  gaps  through  the  carrying  out  of  activities  selected  following  the
procedure  and criteria  set forth in the Operational  Manual,  including:

(i) 

the  carrying  out  of an  analysis  of the  Borrower's  governance  and  accountability
framework;

-7-

(ii) 

(iii) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(i) 

the  provision  of  support  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  achieving  its  public  sector
reforms  related  to  the  Project  including  change  management,  as  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual;  and

the  carrying  out  of an  analysis  of the  Borrower's  trade  facilitation  capacity  and
mechanism  to  streamline said  process  to enhance  its  efficiency  and  effectiveness.

Part 4:  Strengthening Property Tax Compliance  and Administration

Provision  of technical  assistance  to  TAJ  and  NLA  to  improve  property  tax  compliance
through:

the  simplification  of property  tax payment  procedures  and  expansion  of property
tax payment  channels in  Selected  Areas;

the  design  and  implementation  of  a  strategy  to  collect  property  tax  arrears  and
enforce property tax compliance;

the  improvement  of the  land  parcel  identification  system,  through  the  connection
of the land parcel identification  system with the TRN;

updating  the  fiscal  cadaster  through the  carrying  out  of field  surveys  on  Selected
Areas  to obtain additional  relevant  information  on land characteristics;  and

upgrading  the  property  tax  management  system  through:  (i)  improving  the
management  of  property  tax  documents  and  records;  and  (ii)  improving  the
coordination  between land  valuation  and  land titling functions.

Part 5:  Fostering Industrial Growth and Trade Facilitation

(a) 

Provision of technical  assistance  to  BSJ through:

the  carrying  out  of  a  review  of BSJ's  testing  and  certification  procedures  to
trade
ensure  compliance  with 
agreements  and  standards,  including  the  WTO  TBT  and  the  CROSQ  standards;
and

international  and  regional 

the  Borrower's 

(ii) 

the  carrying  out  of  capacity  building  activities  to  improve  BSJ's  service
orientation.

(b) 

Providing technical  assistance  to JCA,  through:

(i) 

the  design  of a  strategy to  ensure  coordination  among Selected  Border  Agencies
the
concerning  compliance  with  the  WTO  ATF, 
(2)  developing  a
operational  processes  of  Selected  Border  Agencies; 
communication  strategy  to  create  awareness  on  said  integrated  processes;  (3)
carrying  out  training  for  JCA's  and  the  Selected  Border  Agencies  management

through:  (1)  integrating 

-8-

and  staff  on  said  integrated  processes;  and  (4)  developing  a  framework  to
simplify  fees  for import,  export and transit  operations;  and

(ii) 

to  operate  effectively  and  efficiently
the  strengthening  of  JCA's  capacity 
through:  (1)  the  design  of  a  strategy  and  provision  of  training  for  JCA's
gathering,  analyzing  and  disseminating  information  on  JCA's  performance;  (2)
the  design  and  implementation  of  a  training  program  for  JCA's  new  staff on,
inter alia, tariff classification,  valuation,  search  techniques  and  cargo  inspection;
(3) the  review  and  improvement  of JCA's  corporate  policies  in  human  resources,
finance  and  corporate  services;  and  (4)  the  design  of  an  ICT  governance
framework.

Part 6:  Project Management

Provision  of support  on  Project  management  to:  (i) carry  out  Project  audits;  (ii)  comply
with  the  financial  management  and  procurement  obligations  under  the  Project;  (iii)
monitor and  evaluate  Project  activities;  (iv)  provide  training  and  the  acquisition  of goods
required thereof and  finance  Operating  Costs.

-9-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

For  purposes  of  carrying  out  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  operate  and  maintain,
throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  the  PIU  with  functions,  staffing,  and
responsibilities  satisfactory to the  Bank,  as set forth  in the  Operational  Manual.

For purposes  of providing  general  Project  oversight  and coordination,  the  Borrower  shall,
not later  than  three  months  after  the Effective  Date,  establish,  and  thereafter  operate  and
maintain  throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  a  committee  (the  Steering
Committee),  with  functions,  responsibilities  and  composition  including  representatives  of
MOFP,  PIOJ, NLA,  TAJ,  JCA and  BSJ, all  acceptable  to the  World  Bank and  as set forth
in the  Operational  Manual.

MOUs

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  Parts  4  and  5  of  the  Project,  and  prior  to  the
implementation  of  any  activity  under  said  Parts  of  the  Project  that  falls  within  the
administrative  jurisdiction  of  any  given  Participating  Agency,  the  Borrower,  through
MOFP  shall  enter  into an  agreement  (the Memorandum  of Understanding  or MOU)  with
each  Participating  Agency,  under terms and  conditions  acceptable  to the  Bank, including,
inter alia, the  obligation to:  (a) assist the Borrower  in  carrying  out the  Project  activities
which  fall  within  their  administrative  jurisdiction  in  accordance  with  the  pertinent
provisions  set  forth  in  Article  V  of the  General  Conditions;  and  (b)  comply  with  the
pertinent provisions of this Agreement  as applicable  to  said Participating  Agency.

The  Borrower,  through  MOFP  shall exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its obligations  under
each  MOU  in  such  manner as to  protect the  interests  of the Borrower  and the Bank and to
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Borrower  shall  not  assign, amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or fail to enforce  any  MOU
or any of its provisions.

Operational Manual

The  Borrower  shall  adopt,  and  thereafter  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of a  manual  (the  Operational  Manual),  which  shall  include,  inter alia: (a)  a
detailed  description  of Project activities  and  institutional  arrangements  for  the Project;  (b)
the  Project  administrative,  accounting,  auditing,  reporting,  financial  (including cash  flow
aspects  in relation  thereto), procurement  and  disbursement  procedures;  (c)  the  monitoring
indicators  for the Project;  (d)  the  institutional  and  administrative  mechanisms  established
responsibilities  and
to  ensure 
composition  of the  Steering  Committee;  (f)  the  criteria  for  the  selection  of  activities
under  Part 3 of the  Project;  (g)  the  criteria for the  selection  of Selected  Areas  under  Parts

inter-institutional  coordination; 

functions, 

the 

(e) 

-10-

4  (a)  of  the  Project;  and  (h)  the  criteria  for  the  selection  of  Selected  Border  Agencies
under Part  5(b)(i)  of the  Project.

2. 

3. 

Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  abrogate,
amend,  suspend,  waive  or  otherwise  fail  to  enforce  the  Operational  Manual  or  any
provision  thereof.

In  case  of any  conflict  between  the  terms  of the  Operational  Manual,  any  MOU,  and  this
Agreement, the provisions  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Section  II. 

Project  Monitoring Reporting  and  Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of indicators  as  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report
shall  cover  the  period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not
later than one month  after the  end  of the  period  covered  by such  report.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports and  Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  a  financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09 of the  General  Conditions.

Without limitation  on the provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the Borrower shall  prepare
and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar
quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  quarter,  in  form
and  substance  satisfactory  to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited
Financial  Statements  for each  such period  shall  be furnished  to the Bank not later than six
months  after the end  of such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services  required
for the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in

-11-

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

accordance  with the  requirements  set  forth or  referred  to in  Section  I of the Procurement
Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this Section.
Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth or referred  to  in Sections  I and  IV  of the Consultant  Guidelines  and
with the  provisions of this Section.
Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the corresponding  method described  in  Sections  II  and III of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
or Sections II, m,  IV  and V  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the case  may  be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services
International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on
the  basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.
Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of  goods  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in  the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Limited  International  Bidding;  (b)  National  Competitive  Bidding;
(c)  Shopping;  and (d)  Direct  Contracting.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except as otherwise  provided in  paragraph  2 below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of Quality
and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  methods,
other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of
consultants'  services  for those  contracts which  are  specified  in the Procurement  Plan:  (a)
Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under a Fixed Budget;  (c)  Least Cost Selection;  (d)
Selection based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting
firms;  (f)  Procedures  set  forth-in  paragraphs  5.2 and  5.3  of the Consultant  Guidelines  for
the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the
Selection of Individual  Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall be subject  to  Post Review  by the  Bank.

-12-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with the  provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice 
Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May 2006,  as revised  from  time  to  time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set forth in the table  in paragraph  2 below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of
the  Loan  to each  Category, and  the percentage  of expenditures  to be financed  for Eligible
Expenditures  in  each Category.

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

34,912,500 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  consultants'  services, 
Training  and  Operating
Costs under Parts  1(a),
1(b)(iii),  1(b)(iv),  1(d)(i),
1(e)(ii), 2 (c)(i),  2 (c)(ii),
2(d), 2(e),  3, 4, 5 and  6 of
the Project
(2)  Front-end  Fee 

87,500 

0 

Amount  payable  pursuant to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement in accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due pursuant  to
Section  2.07(c) of this
Agreement

(3)  Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest 

Rate  Collar premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

35,000,000

3. 

For the  purposes  of this Section, the  following terms  will have the  following meanings:

(a) 

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  incremental  expenses,  as  shall  have
been  approved  by  the  Bank,  incurred  by  the  Borrower  with  respect  to  Project
implementation,  management  and  monitoring,  including  the  salaries  of  non-
professional  staff assigned  to  the  PIU  (excluding  salaries  of the  Borrower's  civil
service  staff),  communication,  editing,  printing  and  publication,  translation,
vehicle  operation  and  maintenance,  bank  charges,  local  travel  costs  and  field  trip
expenses,  office  equipment  and rentals,  utilities,  non-durable  goods and  supplies.

-13-

(b) 

"Training"  means the  reasonable  costs,  as  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank,
for training  and  workshops  conducted  under  the  Project,  including  tuition,  visa,
travel  per diem  and  hotels  and  subsistence  costs  for  training  and  workshop
participants,  and  costs  associated  with  securing  the  services  of  trainers  and
workshop  speakers,  rental  of  training  and  workshop  facilities,  preparation  and
reproduction  of training  and  workshop  materials,  and  other  costs  directly related
to  training and to  workshop  activities.

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be made for
payments  made  prior to the  date of this Agreement.

The Closing  Date  is  January 31,  2020.

B. 

1. 

2. 

-14-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to which  a  Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

On each  February 1  and August  1 
Beginning  on  February 1, 2020
Through  February  1 , 2043
On August  1, 2043 

2.08%

2.24%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  shall be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of such date  in  accordance  with paragraph  1 of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by a
fraction, the numerator  of which is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in paragraph  1 of this  Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date, such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted, as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall, for  the  purposes  solely of calculating  the principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the  second Principal  Payment Date  following  the date  of withdrawal.

-15-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after the  adoption  of
such billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to the  Conversion by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate that reflects the  amounts of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines, the exchange rate  component of the Screen Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency,  in  order  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for  each  such
amount.

4. 

5. 

-16-

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January 2011.

"BSJ"  means  Bureau  of  Standards  Jamaica,  the  Borrower's  bureau  of  standards
established  as  a  statutory  body  in  1969,  pursuant  to  the  BSJ  Legislation,  or  any  legal
successor  thereto.

"BSJ  Legislation"  means  the  Borrower's  Standards  Act,  as  amended  to the  date  of this
Agreement.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011.

"CROSQ"  means  the  Caribbean  Community  and  Common  Market's  (CARICOM)
Regional Organization  for  Standards  and  Quality.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"ICT" means information  and  communications  technology.

"JCA"  means  Jamaica  Customs  Agency,  the  Borrower's  customs  agency  established
pursuant  to the  JCA Legislation,  and  designated  as an executive  agency  on April 2,  2013,
or any legal  successor thereto.

"JCA Legislation"  means the Borrower's  Revenue  Administration  Act,  as amended to the
date of this Agreement.

"MDAs"  means any  of the Borrower's  ministries, departments  and  agencies.

"Memorandum  of Understanding"  or "MOU" means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in
Section  I.B.1  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement,  and collectively  referred  to as "MOUs".

"MOFP"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance  and  Planning, the  Project executing
entity.

14. 

"NGO" means non-governmental  organization.

-17-

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

"NLA" means  the  Borrower's  National  Land  Agency  designated  as  an  executive  agency
on  April  1, 2002,  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Executive  Agencies  Act,  or  any  legal
is  an  amalgamation  of  four  former  departments  of
successor  thereto.  The  NLA 
government  (namely  the  Tittles  Office,  Survey  Department,  Land  Valuation  Department
and  Lands  Department), whose  functions  are prescribed  by the  NLA  Legislation.

"NLA  Legislation"  means the  Borrower's  Registration  of Titles  Act, Registration  (Strata
Titles)  Act, Land  Surveyors  Act, Land  Valuation  Act,  Crown  Property  (Vesting)  Act and
Land Acquisition Act, all as amended to the date of this Agreement.

"Operational  Manual"  means the  Borrower's  manual  satisfactory  to the  Bank, referred to
in  Section  I.C. 1 of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement,  as  such  manual  may be  amended  from
time to time  with the Bank's prior  approval.

"Participating  Agency"  means  NLA,  TAJ,  BSJ  or  JCA,  collectively  referred  to  as
"Participating  Agencies."

"PIMS"  means  the  Borrower's  framework  for  the  preparation,  appraisal,  approval  and
management  of all  public  investments  in the  Borrower's  territory.

"PIOJ" means  the Planning  Institute  of Jamaica,  established  as a  statutory  body  in  1984,
pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Planning  Institute  of  Jamaica  Act,  or  any  legal  successor
thereto.

"PIU" means the unit  referred to in  Section  I.A. 1 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for the  Project, dated  May
14,  2014  and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph
1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with  the provisions,of said paragraphs.

"Public  Financial  Management  Action  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  public  financial
management  reform  program,  established  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Cabinet  Decision
No.35/13,  dated October  7, 2013.

"Selected  Areas"  means  any  area  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  selected  pursuant  to  the
criteria set forth in the  Operational  Manual.

"Selected  Border  Agencies"  means  any  of the  Borrower's  agencies  responsible  for  trade-
related  border management,  selected  pursuant  to  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual.

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  committee  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

-18-

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

"TAJ" means  Tax Administration  Jamaica,  the  Borrower's  tax  administration  department
established,  pursuant to  the TAJ Legislation,  or any  legal  successor  thereto.

"TAJ Legislation"  means  the Borrower's  Revenue  Administration  Act,  as amended  to the
date of this Agreement.

"TRN"  means the Taxpayer  Registration Number  assigned to  each Taxpayer  by the TAJ.

"WTO  ATF"  means  the  World  Trade  Organization's  Agreement  on  Trade  Facilitation,
adopted by the  Borrower on  December  7,  2013.

"WTO  TBT"  means the  World Trade  Organization's  Agreement  on  Technical  Barriers  to
Trade,  acceded  to  by the Borrower  on March  9,  1995

-19-

