LOAN  NUMBER  8301-IN

Loan Agreement

(National Highways Interconnectivity  Improvement  Project)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

2 
,014

LOAN  NUMBER  8301-IN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The
Borrower and the Bank hereby  agree as follows:

2014,  between 

("Borrower") 

INDIA 

J.L 

, 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank agrees  to lend to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  five  hundred  million  United  States  Dollars
(USD  500,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.07  of  this
Currency  Conversion 
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

2.03. 

The  Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal to
the  Reference  Rate  for the Loan  Currency  plus the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that upon  a
Conversion  of all or  any portion  of the  principal  amount of the Loan,  the interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02
(e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.05. 

The Payment Dates  are March  15  and  September  15  in each  year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms of the Loan  in  order  to facilitate  prudent debt  management:  (i) a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based on  a Variable  Spread  to- a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the establishment  of
an  Interest Rate  Cap or Interest Rate  Collar on the  Variable Rate or  the Reference
Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar for  which the  Borrower  has requested  that  the  premium  be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with Section  4.05  (c)  of the General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  its  Ministry  of  Road  Transport  and
Highways ("MORTH")  with the cooperation  of the Project  States,  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article V  of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project is  carried  out in  accordance  with the  provisions of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety (90) days  after the date  of this  Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  any  of the  following  officials,  acting  severally:  the
Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary  or  Under
Secretary  of the Department  of Economic  Affairs  of the Borrower's  Ministry of Finance.

5.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Secretary
Department  of Economic  Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Government  of India
North  Block
New  Delhi  110001,  India

Facsimile:

+91-11-23094075

5.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

-3-

AGREED  at }\.

4 

;i' 

India, as  of the day and  year first above  written.

INDIA

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

_ ________

Title: 

..c1

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized  Representati  e

Name: 

c1 

,  oA 

a

Title:  - 4 -

..

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  the national  highway  network  connectivity  to
less  developed  areas  and low-income  States and enhance  the  institutional  capacity of MORTH  to
better  manage  the highway  network  under the purview  of MORTH.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Component  A:  Road  Improvement  and  Maintenance

Widening  and  upgrading  approximately  400  km  of existing  single-lane/intermediate  lane
national  highways  of the Non-NHDP Network  in the  Project  States, to two-lane standards
through  item-rate  contracts.

Widening  and  upgrading  approximately  720  km  of existing  single-lane/intermediate  lane
national  highways  of the Non-NHDP Network  in the Project  States,  to two-lane  standards
through  EPC Contracts.

Maintaining  the assets  improved/created  under  sub-components  A.1  and  A.2  above  for  a
period  of at least  five (5) years  post construction.

Providing  quality  control  services  for  the  activities  under  sub-component  A. 1, A.2  and
implementation  of/compliance  with  the  EMF,  RPF  and  the
A.3  above,  including 
respective  EIAs,  EMPs,  SIAs,  RAPs and TDPs.

Component B:  Institutional  Development

Improving  MORTH's  internal  processes  and  procedures  through:  (a)  rolling  out  of
enterprise  resource  planning  software  solutions;  (b)  developing  standard  manual(s)  for
the  allocation  roles  and  responsibilities  between  MORTH  and  the  Project  States'  PWDs
for  the  identification,  preparation  and  implementation  of  Project  activities;  and  (c)
updating  costs-databases,  data-books  and other reference  materials  for the roads  sector.

Developing  and  implementing:  (a)  an  IT-based  road  information  system  containing  an
inventory  of road assets  in the  entire Non-NHDP  Network;  and (b)  designing  and  piloting
an  asset  management  system  covering  the  Non-NHDP  Network  in  at  least  three  (3)
Project  States.

Carrying  out  studies  to  review  the  existing  policies  and  practices  for  the  allocation  of
resources  and  financing  of construction  and  maintenance  work  of the assets  of the  Non-
NHDP  network  in  order  to  suggest  improvement  and  assess  options  available  for  the
mobilization  of additional  resources.

Strengthening  MORTH's  governance  and  accountability  through  the  implementation  of
the GAAP.

-5-

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Carrying  out  training  programs  for  MORTH's  and  the  PWDs'  staff,  as  well  as  sector-
related  institutions/agencies  on  policy,  technical,  financial,  procurement  and  contract
management  issues related  to the  road sector.

Component C:  Road Safety

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Reviewing  and  updating:  (a) the road  safety  standards  and codes  of practices  maintained
by  the  Indian  Roads  Congress,  including  improving  standards  and  regulations  for work-
zone  safety,  and  mainstreaming  implementation  of road  safety  standards  into  MORTH's
contract  management  framework;  and  (b)  the  vehicle  axle-load  codes  and  institutional
arrangements  for  monitoring and  enforcement thereof.

Establishing  road  accident  database  management systems  in each  for the Project  States.

Strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of MORTH,  in  particular  its  road  safety  cell,  in
order to:  (a)  assess  and  improve  the  existing  policy  framework  (statutory  and  regulatory)
for  road  safety,  and  develop  models  for  the  enforcement  thereof  and  the  provision  of
related  emergency  care;  (b)  mainstream  road  safety  monitoring  and  evaluation  systems;
(c)  carry  out  social  marketing  and  public  awareness  campaigns  to  promote  road  safety
behavioral  changes;  and  (d)  support  the  establishment  of  lead  road  safety  and  traffic
management agencies.

Carrying out road  safety training  programs for  MORTH's and  the PWDs'  staff, as well as
sector  related  institutions/agencies  on  safety  road  design,  engineering  countermeasures,
including
road 
strengthening  the institutional  capacity  to  assess  roads risk  profiles  pursuant  to the  iRAP,
and developing  3-star  iRAP  safety designs  for selected  roads  in the Non-NHDP  Network.

safety  audits  and  construction  zone 

standards/policies, 

safety 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section 

.

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

The Borrower  shall  maintain, throughout the period of implementation  of the  Project:

(a) 

(b) 

a project  steering committee  (the "PSC"): (i) headed by the Secretary  of MORTH
and with  a composition/membership  acceptable to  the Bank;  and (ii)  vested with
such  powers,  functions  and  competencies,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as  shall  be
required  to  exercise  policy  guidance  for,  and exercise  the  general  oversight  of,
the  implementation  of  Project  activities,  including  the  assessment  of  quarterly
Progress  Reports  submitted  by  EAP  Cell  and  the  review  of  the  semi-annual
audits  reports prepared  by the TPAC; and

financial 

such  powers, 

(ii)  vested  with 

an  externally  aided  projects  cell ("EAP  Cell") within  the MORTH:  (i)  headed  by
a  project  director  and  assisted  by  competent  staff  with  experience  and
qualifications,  in  numbers  and  under  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank;
functions  and
and 
competencies,  acceptable  to the  Bank,  as  shall  be required  for  it to  carry  out the
day-to-day  implementation  of Project  activities,  including  the  inter-institutional
coordination  with  the  PWDs  of  Project  States  and  other  line  agencies,  the
carrying  out  of  procurement,  financial  management,  monitoring  and  reporting
activities,  the  screening  of Project  activities  pursuant  to the EMF and  the  RPF, as
well  as the preparation  of required  EIAs, EMPs,  SlAs,  RAPs and/or TDPs, as the
case may  be, and the monitoring  and  enforcement of contractors'  implementation
of/compliance  with the respective  Safeguard Documents.

resources, 

2. 

The Borrower  shall  cause  each  of the  Project  States to maintain,  throughout  the  period of
implementation  of the Project:

(a) 

(b) 

a  state  oversight  committee:  (i)  with composition/membership  acceptable  to  the
Bank;  and  (ii)  vested  with  such  powers,  functions  and  competencies,  acceptable
to  the  Bank  as  shall  be  required  for  providing  policy  guidance  and  strategic
direction  to  the  PCU  of  each  such  Project  State,  monitoring  progress  in  the
implementation  of  Project  activities  in  the  respective  Project  State  (including
compliance  with  statutory  and  regulatory requirements  as  well  as  the  Safeguard
Documents),  and  facilitating  the  solution  of  any  emerging  problems  and/or
obstacles  for such implementation;  and

a  project  coordination  unit  ("PCU")  within  the  national  highway  wing  of the
respective  Project  States'  PWDs:  (i)  headed  by  a  nodal  officer  in  the  rank  of
Superintending  Engineer  and assisted by competent  staff, all with  experience  and
qualifications,  in  numbers  and  under  terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank;
and  (ii)  vested with  such  powers,  financial  resources,  functions  and  competences,

-7-

acceptable  to the  Bank,  as  shall  be  required  for  it  to:  (A)  carry  out the  technical
and  fiduciary  control  of Project  activities  at  the  State  level,  as  delegated  by  the
EAP  Cell  (including  contract  management  and  preparation  and  submission  of
reporting  requirements);  and  (B)  ensure  compliance  with/implementation  of the
Safeguard  Documents  (including  the  screening  of Project  activities  pursuant  to
the  EMF  and RPF  and  preparation  of EIAs,  EMP,  SlAs,  RAPs  and  TDPs),  and
timely  implementation  of any  land  acquisition  and  resettlement  activities, as  well
as  the payment  of compensation therefor,

3. 

The Borrower shall select  and engage:

(a) 

(b) 

by  no later  than three  (3)  months  after the  Effective  Date,  and  thereafter maintain
throughout  the  period  of implementation  of the Project,  the  services  of a project
management  consulting  firm  ("PMC")  with  qualification  and  experience  and
under  terms of reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  order  to assist  the  EAP  Cell
with  Project  planning  and  implementation  including,  inter  alia: (i)  providing
guidance  and  recommendation  on  technical  and  policy  matters;  (ii)  preparing
bidding  documents  and  subsequent  changes/variations  thereof;  (iii)  evaluating
(iv)  handling  contractual  matters  and
technical  and 
procurement  disputes,  and  establishing  an  automated  contract  management
to  service  providers  and/or  Project
system; 
contractors  under  Components  B  and  C  of the  Project,  and  monitoring  those
payments  for  civil  works  under  Component  A  of  the  Project;  (vi)  providing
training,  guidance  and recommendations  to PCUs  and PIUs  to ensure  compliance
with  the  Safeguards  Documents;  and  (vii)  preparing  the  Project  Reports  and  the
IFRs;  and

(v)  overseeing  of  payments 

financial  proposals; 

by  no  later  than  six (6)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  and  thereafter  maintain
throughout  the  period  of implementation  of the  Project,  the  services  of a  third
party  audit  consulting  firm  ("TPAC")  with  qualification  and  experience  and
under  terms  of  reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  order  to  carry  out  semi-
the  PSC  on:  (i)  financial
annual  audits  and  report  to  the  EAP  Cell  and 
management  performance,  procurement  decisions  and  contract  administration;
(ii)  contract  performance  (i.e.  quality  of construction,  compliance  with technical
specifications,  design  requirements  and maintenance  plans);  and  (iii)  compliance
with  statutory/regulatory  requirements  and  implementation  of  the  Safeguard
Documents,  and the PFM Manual  (other than  the  functions of the  internal  audit).

Project  Financial Management  Manual

B. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  implement,  and/or  cause  the Project  States to  implement, the  Project
in  accordance  with the  financial  management  arrangements  set forth  in  the PFM Manual;
provided  however that  in the  event of conflict  between  the  provisions  of said  manual,  on
the  one  hand,  and  those  of this  Agreement,  on  the  other  hand,  the  provisions  of this
Agreement  shall  prevail.

-8-

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  refrain,  and/or  cause  the  Project  States  to  refrain,  from  amending,
suspending, waiving and/or voiding  any provisions  of the  PFM Manual,  whether  in whole
or in part, without the prior written  concurrence  of the Bank.

Road  Improvement and Maintenance  Activities
For  purposes  of  implementing  the  road  widening  and  upgrading  activities  set  forth  in
Component  A  of the Project,  the  EAP  Cell  and  the  PCU  of the  respective  Project  State
identified/shall  identify  Selected  Roads  in  accordance  with  a  road  readiness  criteria
acceptable  to the  Bank,  which criteria shall  include,  inter alia:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

the completion  of the notifications  for any necessary  land acquisition;
the  securing  of all  environmental  clearances  (including  any  mandatory  public
hearings)  and governmental  permits for construction activities;
the  completion  of  the  environmental  and  social  screening  assessments  of  the
proposed  road  construction  activities,  pursuant  to  the  EMF  and  RPF,  and  the
preparation,  approval  and  disclosure  of the  respective  EIA,  EMP, RAP  and  TDP,
as  the case  may be;
the payment, in  full,  of compensation  and/or resettlement  assistance to  Displaced
Persons  as per the applicable RAP,  in respect  of the first milestone  stretch of civil
works;
the  engagement  of  the  respective  Construction  Supervision  Consultant  or
Authority  Engineer,  as  the case  may  be;  and

to  establish,  and 

the engagement  of the respective  RAP  Implementation  Support Agency.
(f) 
The  Borrower  shall submit  each  Selected  Road to the  Bank for written  concurrence  prior
to  the  award  of  the  civil  works  contracts  for  such  Selected  Road  to  the  respective
contractor(s).
For  each  Selected  Road,  prior to the  earlier of any  invitation  to  bid,  and/or  the  selection
of  any  contractor  for  activities  on  such  road,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  respective
the  period  of
Project  State 
implementation  of  Project  activities  in  such  Selected  Road,  a  road-specific  Project
implementation  unit  ("PIU"): (a)  headed  by an executive  engineer,  assisted  by competent
staff, all with  experience  and  qualifications,  in  numbers  and  under  terms  of reference
acceptable  to the  Bank;  and  (b)  vested with  such  powers,  financial  resources,  functions
and  competences,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as  shall  be  required  for  it  to  carry  out  all
preparatory  activities  for  site-specific  Project activities  (including  securing  the  necessary
encumbrance-free  land  and  State-level  clearances  and permits),  ensure coordination  with
implementation
inter-state  agencies  and  governmental  departments,  oversee 
the  MORTH's  grievance
of/compliance  with 
complaints  systems  (for  all  grievances  other  than  procurement-related  ones),  undertake
contract  management  responsibilities,  and guide/oversee  performance  of the Construction

the  Safeguard  Documents,  handle 

thereafter  maintain 

throughout 

the 

-9-

Supervision  Consultant or the Authority  Engineer,  and  the  RAP  Implementation  Support
Agencies,  as the case  may be.

3. 

For  each  Selected  Road,  prior to  the  commencement  of civil  works, the  Borrower  shall
select,  engage  and  thereafter  maintain  throughout  the  period  of implementation  of  such
activities,  the services  of:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

a  supervision  consulting  firm  (the  "Construction  Supervision  Consultant"),  for
works  other  than  those  procured  under  EPC  Contracts,  with  qualifications  and
experience  and  under terms  of reference  acceptable  to the Bank,  in  order to  assist
the  respective  PIU  with  contract  management,  monitoring/supervision,  and  the
compliance
performance, 
certification 
with/implementation  of the  Safeguard  Documents;

contractors' 

including 

the 

of 

an  engineering  consulting  firm  (the  "Authority  Engineer")  for  works  procured
under  EPC  Contracts,  with  qualifications  and  experience  and  under  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  including  sufficient  delegated  authority  to
resolve  and  approve  any  contractual  claims/clarifications,  in  order  to  assist  the
the
respective  PIU  with  contract  management,  monitoring/supervision,  and 
compliance
certification 
with/implementation  of the Safeguard  Documents;  and

of  contractors' 

performance, 

including 

the 

a  non-governmental  organization  or  social  mobilization  consulting  firm  (the
"RAP  Implementation  Support  Agency"),  with  qualifications  and experience  and
under terms  of reference  acceptable  to the Bank,  in  order to  assist the  respective
PIU  with  the  implementation  of the  works-specific  RAP  and,  when  applicable,
the TDP;  the handling  and  processing  of any grievance  complaints  in  accordance
with  MORTH's  grievance  systems  in  relation  to  the  sub-project  activities,  the
information
carrying  out  of  community  awareness 
campaigns,  and  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  health  and  safety
trainings, including  HIV/AIDS  awareness/prevention  activities.

trainings  and  public 

D. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  and  the GAAP.

E. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower shall,  and shall  cause the  Project States,  to:

(a) 

carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  EMF  and  the  RPF,  and  the  EIAs,
EMPs,  SIAs,  RAPs  and  TDPs  prepared  and/or  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to
in  accordance  with  the  objectives,  policies,
paragraph  2  of  this  sub-section 
procedures,  time  schedules,  compensation  arrangements  and  other  provisions set
forth  in  the  EMF  and  RPF  (together,  the  "Safeguard  Documents"),  in  each  case
in a  manner and in  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and

-10-

(b) 

refrain  from  taking  any  action  which  would  prevent  or  interfere  with  the
including  any  amendment,
implementation  of  the  Safeguard  Documents, 
suspension,  waiver,  and/or  voidance  of  any  provision  of  the  Safeguard
Documents, whether  in whole  or in  part, without the prior written  concurrence  of
the Bank.

2. 

With  respect  to  each  Selected  Road,  the  Borrower  shall  refrain  from  awarding  any
contract  to  contractors  or  undertaking  any  activities  which  would  result  in  Displaced
Persons,  until  and unless:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the proposed  activities  have  been  screened  by  the EAP  Cell,  and/or  the PCU  of
the  respective  Project  State,  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines,  standards  and
procedures  set forth  in the EMF  and RPF;

all  of the respective  EIA(s),  EMP(s),  SIA(s),  RAP(s)  and/or  TDP(s)  required  for
such  Selected  Road  pursuant  to  the  EMF  and  RPF  has/have  been  prepared  and
submitted  to  the  Bank  for  review  and  the  Bank  has  notified  the  Borrower  in
writing of its no-objection  thereto;  and

the  foregoing  .Safeguard  Documents  have  been  publicly  disclosed  by  the
Borrower,  and/or  the respective  Project  State,  in  local  language(s)  at the  relevant
Project's  sites,  at  least  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  prior to  the  award  of
the  contract for the related works.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  and/or  cause  the  Project  States  to  ensure,  that,  prior  to
commencing  any civil works  on a  Selected  Road,  or  section thereof, under the  Project:  (a)
all  necessary  governmental  permits  and  clearances  for  such  civil  works  in  the  relevant
road,  or  section,  shall  have  been obtained  from the  competent  governmental  authority/ies
imposed  by  the
and  submitted  to  the  Bank;  (b)  all  pre-construction  conditions 
governmental  authority/ies  under  such  permit(s)  or clearance(s)  shall  have been complied
with/fulfilled;  and  (c)  all  resettlement  measures  set  forth  in  the  applicable  RAP  to  the
respective  section  of such  Selected  Road  shall  have  been  fully  executed,  including  the
full  payment  of compensation  prior  to  displacement  and/or  the  provision  of relocation
assistance to all Displaced  Persons,  as per the  entitlements  provided in  the RPF and/or the
applicable  RAP.
The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  and/or  cause  the  Project  States  to  ensure,  that  each  contract
for  civil  works  under  the  Project  includes  the  obligation  of  the  relevant  contractor  to
to  such  civil  works
comply  with 
commissioned/awarded  pursuant to  said contract.

the  relevant  Safeguard  Documents  applicable 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The Borrower  shall, and/or shall  cause the Project States to:

(a) 

maintain  monitoring  and  evaluation  protocols  and  record  keeping  procedures
acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  adequate  to enable  the Borrower,  the Project  States
and the Bank  to  supervise and  assess,  on an  on-going  basis,  the implementation
of/compliance  with the Safeguards  Documents,  as well  as the achievement  of the
objectives  thereof; and

-ll-

(i) 

(ii) 

(a) 

(b) 

(b) 

furnish to the Bank,  throughout the  period  of Project  implementation:

quarterly  reports  prepared  by  the  EAP  Cell,  with  the  assistance  of  the
PCUs,  on  the  physical  and  financial  progress  of Project  activities,  the
general  compliance  with  the  Safeguard  Documents,  the  social  and
impact  of  Project  activities,  and  the  results  of  the
environmental 
mitigation  or  benefit-enhancing  measures  applied  thereto,  during  the
period  preceding  the  date of each  such report; and

quarterly  reports  prepared  by  the  respective  Construction  Supervision
Consultants  or the  Authority  Engineers,  as the case  may be,  and  the RAP
the  contractors'  general
Implementation  Support  Agency,  assessing 
compliance  with  the  Safeguard  Documents  and  the  respective  works
the  efficacy  of  the  social  and  environmental
contracts,  monitor 
management  measures,  and  the  results  of  the  mitigation  or  benefit-
enhancing  measures  applied  thereto,  with  particular  emphasis  on  the
implementation  and  results  of resettlement  activities,  during  the  period
preceding the date  of each  such  report.

6. 

that  the  following  Project  expenditures  are  financed
The  Borrower  shall  ensure 
exclusively  out  of  the  Borrower's  own  resources,  and,  to  this  end,  shall  provide,  as
promptly as  needed,  the resources  required therefor,  namely:

all  land  acquisition  required  for the  purpose of the Project;  and

any  compensation,  resettlement  and  rehabilitation  payment  to  Displaced
Persons  in accordance  with the  provision of the RAPs.

7. 

In  the  event  of any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of any  of the  EMF,  the RPF,  ElAs,
SIAs,  EMPs,  RAPs and/or  TDPs,  on the  one  hand,  and the  provisions  of this  Agreement,
on the other  hand, the provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the
period  of one calendar  quarter, and  shall  be  furnished to  the Bank not later  than forty-five
(45)  days after the  end of the period  covered  by  such report.

B. 

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports and  Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain or  cause to  be maintained  a  financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General Conditions.

-12-

2. 

3. 

4. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

Without  limitation on the provisions of Sub-section  A of this  Section, the Borrower  shall
prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later than  forty five  (45)  days  after the  end  of each
calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the Project  covering  the  quarter,
in form  and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  the  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.09  (b) of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower,  commencing  with
the fiscal year  in  which  the first withdrawal  was made.  The  audited Financial  Statements
for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  nine  (9)  months  after
the end of such  period.

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out regular  internal  audits  in  accordance  with the  PFM  Manual,
performed  by  qualified  staff  acceptable  to the  Bank,  and  shall  furnish  such  audits  to  the
Bank  for their review,  ninety  (90)  days  after the  completion/issuance  of the  audit  report,
including,  if any, the recommendations  made by  the internal auditors.

Section III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required for  the Project  and  to be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be procured  in  accordance  with the requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements set forth  or referred to in  Sections I and IV  of the Consultant  Guidelines  and
with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the  corresponding  method described  in Sections  II  and III  of the Procurement  Guidelines,
or Sections  II, III,  IV  and  V  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the  case may  be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on the basis of International Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  for those  contracts  specified  in
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  additional
the  Procurement  Plan: 
provisions  set forth  in the Procurement  Plan; and  (b)  Shopping.

-13-

C. 

1. 

2. 

D. 

A. 

I. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services
Quality- and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided in paragraph 2 below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the  basis  of Quality-
and Cost-based  Selection.
Other  Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The  following  methods,
other  than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of
consultants'  services  for those  contracts  which are  specified  in  the Procurement  Plan:  (a)
Selection  under  a  Fixed  Budget;  (b)  Least  Cost  Selection;  (c)  Selection  based  on
Consultants'  Qualifications;  and  (d)  Procedures  set forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the
Consultant  Guidelines  for the Selection  of Individual Consultants.

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth those  contracts which  shall be  subject to the Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall be subject to Post Review  by the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General
The Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set forth  in the table  in paragraph  2 below.
The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of
the Loan to  each Category,  and the percentage  of expenditures  to  be  financed for Eligible
Expenditures in  each  Category.

-14-

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive  of taxes)

(1) Works under Sub-
Components  A.1,  and  A.2  of 
the Project
(2)  Goods, non-consulting
services, consultants'  services,
and Training  under Sub- 
Component A.4 and
Components  B and C  of the
Project.

442,100,000 

56,650,000 

50%

80%

(3) Front-end  Fee 

1,250,000 

(4)  Interest Rate  Cap  or
Interest Rate Collar  premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

0 

500,000,000

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the  General
Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant to

Section  2.07(c)  of this
Agreement

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Sub-section  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  made  prior  to  the  date of this  Agreement,  except  that withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  USD  10,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior to this  date but on or  after  June  15,  2013,  for Eligible  Expenditures
under Categories (1) and (2).

2. 

The Closing Date is June 30,  2019.

-15-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total principal  amount  of the Loan  payable  on each  Principal Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds of the Loan  have  been  fully withdrawn  as of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)
multiplying: 
the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted, as  necessary,  to deduct any  amounts referred  to in  paragraph  4 of this Scheduke,
to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each March  15  and  September  15

Beginning  March  15, 2019 
through  March  15,  2031

On September  15,  2031 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

3.85%

3.75%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To the  extent that any  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn Loan  Balance
as of such  date  in  accordance  with paragraph  I of this  Schedule.
Any amount  withdrawn  after the  first Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling  after  the date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the Bank by multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the numerator of which is the original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on or after  such
date, such  amounts repayable  to be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.
Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the second Principal  Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

-16-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this paragraph,  if at any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such  billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank by  multiplying  such amount  in  its currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the Conversion  by either:  (i) the exchange  rate that reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency, so  as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

-17-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits and Grants",
dated October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January 2011.

"Authority  Engineer"  means  each  of the  consulting  firms  selected,  or  to  be  selected,  by
the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Section  I.C.3.(b)  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement;  and the term
"Authority  Engineers" means  all such consulting firms collectively  considered.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Component"  means  each  of the  sets  of Project  activities  grouped  together  under each  of
the  sections  entitled  "Road  Improvement  and  Maintenance",  "Institutional  Development"
and  "Road  Safety",  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement.

"Construction  Supervision  Consultant"  means  each  of the  consulting  firms  selected,  or  to
be  selected,  by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  Section  I.C.3.(a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement;  and  the  term  "Construction  Supervision  Consultants"  means  all  such
consulting  firms  collectively  considered.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  IBRD Loans  and  IDA Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"
dated January  2011.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on account  of the execution  of the  Project, have
experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused  by:  (a)  the
involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets
or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss of income  sources  or means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not
such  persons must move to  another  location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to
the
legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse 
livelihoods  of such persons.

impact  on 

"EAP  Cell"  means  the  team/cell  established  by  MORTH  for  the  implementation  of
externally  funded  projects,  and  referred  to  in  Section  l.A.1(b)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Environmental  Impact  Assessments"  and  the  acronym  "ElAs"  means,  collectively,  the
Borrower's:  (a)  the  environmental  impact assessments  for  roads NHl  IB,  NH98,  NH104,
NH113,  NH200  and  NH217,  and  disclosed  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  July  26,  2013,
March  11,  2013,  July 27,  2013,  September  6,  2013,  March  11,  2013  and  March  11,  2013,
the  environmental  impact  assessments  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to
respectively;  and  (b) 
Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
EMF,  in  order  to  assess  the  likely  positive  and  negative  environmental  impact  of Project

-18-

activities;  as  such  assessments  may  be  revised,  updated  or  supplemented  from  time  to
time with the  prior written concurrence  of the Bank.

"Environmental  Management  Framework"  and the  acronym "EMF"  mean the  Borrower's
framework,  dated  January  26,  2012,  setting  forth  the  guiding  principles,  acceptable
standards and  procedures  for:  (a) the screening  of Project activities  and the  identification
of any  adverse  or  positive  environmental  impacts  caused,  or expected  to  be  caused,  on
implementation;  and  (b)  the  preparation  of  their  prescribed
account  of  their 
Environmental  Impact  Assessements,  and  Environmental  Management  Plans;  as  such
framework  may  be  revised,  updated  or supplemented  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  concurrence  of the Bank.
"Environmental  Management  Plans"  and  the  acronym  "EMPs"  mean,  collectively,  the
Borrower's  plans:  (a)  prepared  in  respect  of  roads  NHllB,  NH98,  NH1O4,  NH113,
NH200  and  N-1217,  and  disclosed  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  July  26,  2013,  March  11,
2013,  July  27,  2013,  September  6,  2013,  March  11,  2013  and  March  11,  2013,
respectively;  and  (b)  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to  Section  I.E.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  EMF,  in  each  case  setting  out
including  capacity
mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring  and 
building  through  training,  required  to:  (i) eliminate  adverse  environmental  impacts  of
activities  to  be  implemented  under  the  Project;  (ii)  offset  them,  or  reduce  them  to
acceptable  levels;  (iii)  enhance  any  positive  impacts  thereof;  as  such  plans  may  be
revised,  updated  or supplemented  from time  to time  with  the  prior written  concurrence  of
the  Bank;  and/or  (iv)  ensure  compliance  with  Borrower's  statutory  environmental
requirement.

institutional  measures, 

"EPC  Contracts"  means  the  engineering,-procurement-construction  composite  contracts
to  be  piloted  by  the  Borrower  for  the  widening and  upgradation  of selected  roads under
the  Project,  whereby  the  contractor  takes  comprehensive  responsibility  for  the  design,
execution  and  maintenance  of the  respective  asset, in  each  case  on the  basis  of the  model
form of agreement agreed between  the  Borrower and the Bank.

"GAAP" means  the  Borrower's  governance  and accountability  action  plan  dated June  12,
2013,  for purposes  of the  Project,  which  sets out the key  actions  to be  undertaken  by  the
Borrower  to strengthen  governance,  transparency  and  accountability  under the  Project;  as
such  action  plan  may  be  revised,  updated  or  supplemented,  from  time  to time,  with  the
prior written  concurrence  of the  Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012.

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"HIV/AIDS"  means  the  human  immunodeficiency  virus  and  the  resulting  acquired
immune  deficiency  syndrome.
"IFRs"  means,  collectively, the interim  unaudited financial  reports  (to be) prepared  by the
Borrower, through MORTH, pursuant  to Section  I1.B.2  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

-19-

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

"Indian  Roads  Congress" means  the Indian  society  of highways  engineers  established  and
registered  in  1937,  and operating under India's the Societies  Registration Act of 1860.

"iRAP"  means  the International  Road  Assessment  Program,  a charity  operating under the
laws  of the  United  Kingdom  of Great  Britain  and Northern  Ireland,  and  registered  under
the Company No. 05476000,  and  Charity No.  1140357.

"MORTH"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Roads,  Transport  and  Highways,  or  any
successor  thereto.

"Non-NHDP  Network"  means  the  Borrower's  primary  road  network  (i.e.  national
highways)  other  than  the  national  highways  comprised  under  the  Borrower's  National
Highways  Development Program.

"PCU" means the  project  coordination  unit  established  in  each  of the  Project  States,  and
referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2(b)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  the  term  "PCUs"
means all  five (5)  said coordination  units, collectively  considered.

"PFM  Manual"  means  the manual  dated  September  17,  2013,  for purposes  of the Project,
which  provides  detail  guidance  on  segregation  of financial  management  duties,  internal
control  protocols,  accounting  and  record  keeping  procedures,  funds  flow  arrangements,
reporting  and  auditing
withdrawal  applications  procedures,  asset  management, 
arrangements  applicable  to  the  Project;  as  such  manual  may  be  revised,  updated  or
supplemented,  from time to time,  with the prior  written  concurrence  of the Bank.

"PIU"  means  the  sub-project  level  implementation  unit  to  be  established  in  respect  of
each  of  the  Project's  selected  roads  pursuant  Section  I.C.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement;  and  the  term  "PIUs"  means  all  such  sub-project  implementation  units
collectively  considered.

"PMC"  means  the  project  management  consulting  firm  to  be  selected  by  the  Borrower
pursuant to  Section  I.A.3.(a)  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
September  21,  2013  and referred to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the Procurement  Guidelines and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from time  to
time  in  accordance  with  the provisions of said paragraphs.

"Project"  means  the  activities  described  in  Schedule  1 to this  Agreement,  which  are  the
same as the ones approved  by the Borrower  on April  18, 2013  under the title of 'National
thereof  as
Highways  Interconnectivity  Improvement  Projects'  and/or  any  changes 
mutually agreed  between  the Borrower  and the  Bank.

-20-

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

"Project  States"  means  the  Borrower's  States  of Bihar,  Orissa, Rajasthan,  Karnataka  and
West  Bengal,  and/or  any  other  states  of the  Borrower  as  mutually  agreed  between  the
Borrower  and  the Bank.

"PSC" means  the project  steering  committee  established  by the Borrower on February  20,
2013,  and  referred to in  Section  I.A.1(a)  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"PWDs" means  collectively the  Public Works  Department  of the  Project  States.

"RAP 
Implementation  Support  Agency"  means  each  of  the  specialized 
social
mobilization  non-government  organizations  or  consulting  firms  to  be  selected  by  the
Borrower  pursuant to Section  I.C.3(c) of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Resettlement  Action  Plans" and the  acronym "RAPs"  mean, collectively,  the Borrower's
resettlement  and  relocation  plans:  (a)  prepared 
in  respect  of  roads  NH11B,  NH98,
NHIO4,  NH 113,  NH200  and  NH217,  and  disclosed  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  July  10,
2013,  March  27,  2013,  March  27,  2013,  July  22,  2013,  March  27,  2013  and  March  28,
2013,  respectively;  and  (b)  to  be  prepared  pursuant to  Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2 to  this
Agreement,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  RPF,  in  each  case  identifying
Displaced  Persons  on  account  of implementation  of Project  activities  in  the  respective
Selected  Road  or section  thereof, and  setting  forth the terms and  conditions  for  providing
them  with  resettlement  assistance  and/or  compensation,  as  well  the  procedures  to  be
applied  in the  identification,  assessment and  mitigation  of potential  Project  related  social
impacts,  including  the  protocols  for  consultation,  the  processing  of  complaints  and
grievance  redressal,  monitoring  and  reporting  requirements,  and  the  Displaced  Persons'
entitlement  schedules;  as  such  plans may  be  revised,  updated  or  supplemented,  from  time
to time,  with the  prior written concurrence  of the  Bank.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "RPF"  mean  the  Borrower's
framework,  dated  March  11,  2013,  setting  for the guiding  principles,  acceptable  standards
and  procedures  for:  (a)  the  screening  of Project  activities  and  the  identification  of  any
Displaced  Persons  and  or Tribal  Groups,  on  account  of their  implementation;  and  (b) the
preparation  of their  prescribed  Resettlement  Action  Plans  and  Tribal  Development  Plans,
as applicable;  as  such  framework  may  be revised,  updated  or  supplemented  from time  to
time with  the prior written  concurrence  of the  Bank.

"Safeguard  Documents"  means,  collectively,  the  EMF,  the RPF,  the EIAs, the  EMPs,  the
SIA,  the  RAPs and the TDPs.

"Selected  Road"  means  the  stretches  of  the  roads  NHl IB,  NH30A,  NH60A,  NH98,
NHIO4,  NHIO6,  NH1l3,  NH200,  NH201,  NH217,  and  NH234,  as  well  as  any  other
roads  that  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  may  agree  from  time  to  time,  provided  that  all
these  roads  meet  the  criteria  set  out  in  paragraph  I of Section  I.C  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"States"  means  any  of the  political  subdivisions  of the  Borrower,  acknowledged  in  the
Borrower's  States  Reorganization  Act  of  1956;  and/or  subsequent  complementary
legislation  and treaties.

-21-

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

the  acronym  "SIAs"  mean,  collectively, 

the
"Social  Impact  Assessments"  and 
Borrower's:  (a) the social  impact assessments  prepared  for roads NHI IB, NH98, NHIO4,
NIH  1l3,  NH200  and  NH217,  and  disclosed  in  the  Bank's  Infoshop  on  July  10,  2013,
March  27,  2013,  March  27,  2013,  July  22,  2013,  March  27,  2013'and  March  28,  2013,
the  social  screening  to  be  prepared  pursuant  to  Section  I.E.2  of
respectively;  and  (b) 
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  in accordance  with the provisions  of the RPF,  in order  to
assess  the  likely  social  impact  of Project  activities;  as  such  assessments  may be  revised,
updated  or  supplemented  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  concurrence  of the
Bank.

"Sub-Component"  means  each  activity  or  set  of  activities  within  a  Component,
individualized through  a numbered  paragraph  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement.

"TPAC"  means  audit  consulting  firm(s)  to  be  selected  by  the  Borrower  pursuant  to
Section  I.A.3(b)  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Training"  means the reasonable  cost  of trainings,  seminars,  workshops,  conferences  and
study  tours,  conducted  in the  territory  of the  Borrower  and/or  overseas,  including:  (a)  the
fees  of  training  institutions  and  courses;  (b)  domestic  and  international  travel  costs,
lodging costs,  and  subsistence/per  diem allowances  both  for trainers  and  trainees;  (c)  the
rental  of training  facilities;  and  (d)  preparation,  purchase  or  reproduction  of  training
materials.

"Tribal  Development  Plans"  and the acronym  "TDPs"  mean, collectively,  the Borrower's
plan  collectively,  the  Borrower's  development  plans:  (a)  prepared  for  roads  NHI  I B,
NIH  13,  NH200  and NH217  as part of the RAPs,  and disclosed  at the  Bank's  Infoshop  on
July  12,  2013,  July  22,  2013,  March  11,  2013,  and  March  11,  2013  respectively;  and  (b)
to  be  prepared  pursuant  to  Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of the  RPF,  setting  out,  in  each  case:  (i)  the  measures  designed  to
ensure  meaningful  consultation  with,  and  informed  participation  of, Tribal  Groups  and
their  communities  in  a  Project  State  in  the  design  and  implementation  of  the  Project
activities  in  respect  of a  selected  road,  as  well  as;  (ii)  the envisioned  Project  benefits  for
said  Tribal  Groups  and  communities  which  shall  be/are  culturally  appropriate  and
socially  inclusive.

42. 

"Tribal  Groups"  means  any  distinct,  vulnerable,  social  and  cultural  group  within  the
territory  of the Borrower, that:  (i)  self-identifies  as  such  and claims,  and  is recognized  by
others  as,  having  a  distinguishable  cultural  identity;  (ii)  has  collective  attachment  to
geographically  distinct  habitats  or  ancestral  territories  in  the  Project  area,  and  to  the
natural  resources  in  these  habitat  and  territories;  (iii)  has  customary  cultural,  economic,
social  and  political  institutions  that  are  separate  from  those  of the  dominant  society  and
culture; and  (iv)  has an  indigenous  language,  often different from  the official language  of
the Borrower.

-22-

