LOAN  NUMBER  8398-TN

OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

Loan Agreement

(Third  Export  Development Project)

REPUBLIC  OF TUNISIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2014

LOAN  NUMBER  8398-TN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  date 
and 

t, 
INTERNATI 

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank"). The  Borrower  and the Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

BANK 

AL 

2014,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  TUNISIA
AND

RECONSTRUCTION 

FOR 

ARTICLE I-  GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees to  lend  to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  thirty  six  million  three  hundred  thousand  Euro
(EUR36,300,000)  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I to
this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to
the  Reference  Rate  for the  Loan Currency  plus  the Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon a
Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the principal  amount of the Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02
(e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.05.  The  Payment  Dates are  January 1 and July 1 in each year.

2.06.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.07. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,

-2-

withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the
interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or any  portion of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or
vice  versa;  or  (B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread,  or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  based  on a  Variable  Spread  to  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of  limits  on  the
Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any  portion  of  the
principal  amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  by  the establishment  of
an Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference
Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the
General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Article  IV  of the General Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts  I  and  Part  3  of the  Project  through  its  Ministry  of Trade
and  Handicraft  and  cause  Parts  2.A,  B  and  C  of  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entities  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions  and the Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  is  carried  out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Events  of  Suspension  consist  of the  following  namely  that  the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of the  Project  Implementing
Entity to perform any  of its obligations  under the  Project Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the  event

specified  in  Section 4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreements  have  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower  and
the  Project  Implementing  Entities  and have  entered  into  effect  in  accordance with
their terms.

-3-

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

The  Project  Implementing  Entity  (CEPEX)  has  established  a  Matching  Grant
Selection  Committee  with  composition,  functions  and  terms  of  reference
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Project  Implementing  Entity  (CEPEX)  has  established  a  Fund  Management
Technical  Team  with  composition,  functions  and  terms  of reference  satisfactory
to  the Bank.

The  Borrower has  recruited  or appointed  to  the  PCMU,  a procurement  specialist,
a  financial  management  specialist  and  an  accountant  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  III.C  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

The  Borrower  has  updated  and  adopted  the  Project  Operations  Manual  for  the
Project  in form and substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Project  Implementing Entities  have  adopted  the  Matching  Grant  Manual  and
the PEFGF Manual  respectively,  in  form  and substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal Matter  consists  of the  following:

(a)  The  Project  Agreements  have  been  duly  executed  and  authorized  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entities,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  them  in  accordance  with  their
terms.

(b)  That  the  Subsidiary  Agreements  have  been  duly  executed  by  the  Borrower  and  the
Project  Implementing  Entities  and  are  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the
Project  Implementing  Entities  in accordance  with  their terms.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the  date  one  hundred  and twenty  (120)  days after  the  date
of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is the Ministry  of Economy and  Finance.

6.02.  The  Borrower's Address  is:

Ministry  of Economy  and  Finance
Secretary  of State for  Development  and  International  Cooperation
Place  Ali  Zouaoui
1069,  Tunis
Republic  of Tunisia

Facsimile:
216-71-351-666/  216-71-799-069

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and Development

1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington, 

.

.

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)  K

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

above written.

, 

of  the  day  and  year  first

-4-

By

By

REPUBLIC  OF  TUNISIA

A  t 

-e  Repre  ntative

Name:WW  V

Title:

INTE 
R E  NS TRUC  ON  AN  DEVELOPMENT

FOR

NA 

.

thorized Representative

Name: 

e,

Title:  67

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  help  increase  and  diversify  exports  by  supported

enterprises.

The  Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part  1:  Support  to  Improve  the  Business  Climate  for Trade  Competitiveness  and  the  Diffusion of

Technology  and  Innovation

A. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Support  for the  Restructuring  and  Modernization  of Customs

the  Borrower's  customs 

Upgrading 
the
acquisition  of goods  and  the  provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and  Training  to
selected  customs  officials.

technology  system, 

information 

through 

Developing  a  comprehensive  computerized  post  review  risk  management  system  for  the
Borrower's  customs  through  the  provision  of technical  advisory  services,  Training  and
acquisition  of goods.

the  provision  of
Developing  an  authorized  economic  operator  approach,  through 
technical  advisory  services and Training  for  selected customs  officials,  including  carrying
out of communication  campaign  to  promote the  approach.

Preparing  and  publishing  a  manual  of procedures,  users'  guide  and  downloadable  forms
and  documents  on  the  customs'  website,  through  the  provision  of  technical  advisory
services.

Developing  operating  procedures  and  related  computerized  system  for  the  areas  under
customs  control  (zone  logistique)  through  the  provision  of technical  advisory  services
and the acquisition  of goods.

B. 

Improvement  of Trade  Logistics

Improving  trade  logistics to lower  the cost of exports  for Tunisian enterprises  through:

Supporting  the  MT  to  better  define  the  needs  for  improvement  in  the  port  of  Rades,
through  carrying  out  of  comparative  studies  with  other  competitor  ports,  institutional
and  operational  audit  of existing  concessions  and  supporting  the  implementation  of
the measures  recommended  by  the said  studies  and audit.

Developing  a  system  for  the  management  and  tracking  of containers  by  STAM,  through
the provision  of technical  advisory  services and  acquisition  of goods.

Supporting  the  MT  in the  implementation  of its  logistics  zones  development  strategy and
its  pilot  logistic  zone  project  in  Rads,  through  the  provision  of  technical  advisory
services  and  Training of selected  personnel.

-6-

C. 

Support  Innovation  and  its Dissemination

Strengthening  INNORPI's  capacity  in:  (i)  developing  and  disseminating  services  on
industrial  property  to  exporting  firms;  (ii)  improving  and  expanding  quality  assessments
on  industry  and  export  compliance,  and  ensuring  recognition  of  national  labels  and
brands;  and  (iii)  creating  new  systems  for  traceability,  certification,  and  accreditation  of
goods  and  services  destined  for  export;  all  through  the  provision  of  technical  advisory
services and  acquisition  of goods.

Part  2:  Provision  of Financial  and Nonfinancial  Services  to  Exporting  Enterprises

Competitiveness  Support and  Export Development  Fund

Provision of export subsidies  to  Beneficiaries  in the  form of Matching Grants.

Supporting  CEPEX  in  implementing  and  managing  the  Matching  Grant  scheme  through
the  provision of technical  advisory  services,  Training,  and acquisition  of goods,  including
carrying  out of communication  and market  campaigns.

(c) 

Establishing  a monitoring  and  evaluation  system  for  the matching  Grant  scheme  through
the  provision of technical  advisory services  and acquisition  of goods.

B. 

Pre-Shipment  Export  Finance  Guarantee  Facility (PEFGF)

Increasing  the  amount  of  the  Export  Finance  Guarantee  Facility  and  provision  of
technical  advisory  services and Operating Cost  to COTUNACE  to,  inter alia: (i)  simplify
the  Export  Finance  Guarantee  mechanism  and  procedures;  (ii)  improve  COTUNACE's
governance  and  risk  monitoring  approach  of the  export  finance  guarantee;  (iii)  support
the creation  of a  Foreign  Establishment  Guarantee  product;  and  (iv)  extend  guarantee  to
exporting enterprises  for securing  eligible  bonds from  commercial  banks.

C. 

Strengthening  CEPEX to  become  a sustainable  export development  services provider

Strengthening the  capacity of CEPEX through,  inter alia:

the provision  of technical  advisory services to  carry  out an  institutional  audit to reform  its
governance  and operations  and  to  facilitate  public  and private  dialog  to  develop  an  action
plan regarding  such  reform;

the  provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and  acquisition  of  goods  for 
implementation  of the said  action plan;  and

the

the  provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and  acquisition  of  goods  to 
improve
CEPEX's  operations,  particularly  in the fields  of market  studies  and information  system.

A. 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

-7-

Part  3:  Support to  Selected  Ministries  for the Coordination  and Management  of the  Project

(a) 

(b) 

Strengthening  the  capacity  of the  PCMU  for  effective  implementation  of  the  Project
through  the provision  of Training,  technical  advisory services  and acquisition  of goods.

Supporting  selected  ministries  in  the  carrying  out  of studies,  and  implementation  of, the
Borrower's  export  development  studies  and  strategies,  through  the provision  of technical
advisory services  and acquisition  of goods.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  1. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

Ministry of Trade and  Handicraft

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  its  respective  Parts  of  the  Project,  through  the
Ministry  of  Trade  and  Handicraft  (MTH) 
the  project
Operational  Manual.

in  accordance  with 

a  procurement 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  the
Borrower  shall,  at  all  times  during  the  implementation  of the  Project,  maintain
within  the MTH,  the  Project  Coordination  and  Monitoring  (PCMU)  with  staffing
(including  a  Project  coordinator, 
financial
management  specialist,  an  accountant,  and  a  monitoring  and  evaluation
specialist),  resources  and  terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  to  be
responsible  for day-to-day  execution,  management,  and coordination  of activities
under  Part  I  and  Part  3  of  the  Project,  including:  (i)  fiduciary  management
(financial  and  procurement);  (ii)  monitoring  and  evaluation;  (iii)  preparing  and
submitting  Project  Reports,  financial  reports  and  audit  reports  to  the  Bank;  and
(iv)  such  other  technical,  administrative,  organizational  and  financial  functions
required  under  its  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project  as  set  forth  in  the  Project
Implementation  Manual.

specialist,  a 

2. 

Steering  Committee

The  Borrower  shall,  at  all  times  during  the  implementation  of the  Project,  maintain  the
Steering  Committee  with  functions,  composition  and  resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
to  be  responsible  for  the supervision  of the  Project  and facilitation  of its  implementation,
including  approving  annual  reports  and  annual  work  plans  and  budgets,  and  such  other
functions  as set forth in the  Project Implementation  Manual.

B. 

1. 

2. 

Subsidiary  Agreements

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  Implementing  Entities'  Respective  Parts  of
the Project,  the Borrower  shall  make  part  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  from time
to  time  to  Category  3  and  4  of the  table  set  forth  in  Section  IV.A.2  of  this  Schedule
available,  on  a  non-reimbursable  grant  basis,  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  under
subsidiary  agreements  between  the Borrower  and  the  Implementing  Entities,  under terms
and  conditions approved  by the  Bank; ("Subsidiary  Agreements").

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreements  in  such  manner
as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the purposes
of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,
amend,  abrogate or  waive the  Subsidiary Agreements  or any of their provisions.

-9-

C. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

E. 

1 .

Implementation  Arrangements

Project  Operations  Manual  (Operations  Manual,  Matching  Grant Manual;  Export
Finance Guarantee  Manual):  The  Borrower  shall  update  in  accordance  with  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  a  Project  operational  manual,  consisting  of:  (i)  an
operational  manual,  providing  details  of  arrangements  and  procedures 
the
implementation  of the  Project:  (A)  capacity  building  activities  for  sustained  achievement
of  the  Project's  objective;  (B)  procurement,  financial  management  and  disbursement
arrangements;  (C)  institutional  administration,  coordination,  and  day-to-day  execution  of
Project  activities;  (D)  monitoring,  evaluation,  and  reporting  arrangements  of  Project
activities;  and  (E)  such  other  administrative,  financial,  technical  and  organizational
arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be  required  for  the  Project;  (ii)  a  Matching  Grant
manual,  setting  forth the detailed  criteria  for providing  Matching  Grants  to  Beneficiaries;
and  (iii)  a  PEFGF  manual,  setting  forth  the  detailed  policies  and  procedures  for  said
Guarantee.

for 

The  Borrower  shall  afford  the  Bank  a reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with the
Borrower  on  said  Project  operation  manual,  and  thereafter,  shall  adopt  such  Project
operation  manual,  as  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank  ("Project  Operation
Manual").

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out in  accordance  with  the Project
Operation  Manual;  provided,  however,  that  in  case  of  any  conflict  between  the
provisions  of  the  Project  Operation  Manual,  on  the  one  hand,  and  those  of  this
Agreement,  on  the other, the provisions  of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

The  Borrower  shall  not  amend  or waive  any provisions  of the Project  Operations  Manual
without  the  prior written agreement  of the  Bank.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

Matching  Grants

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

To  ensure  the  proper  and  efficient 
implementation  of  Part  2.A  of  the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  extend  Matching  Grants  to
Beneficiaries  in  accordance  with  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  which shall  include  the  following:

(a) 

The proposed  Beneficiary:

(i) 

(ii) 

is  an  entity  in  good  standing  that  is  registered  under  the  laws  of  the
Borrower  and  has  the  legal  capacity  to  enter  into  binding  agreements
under  the laws  of the Borrower;

is  an  entity that  provides  the  services  or  carries  out the  activities  eligible
to  be financed  under Part  2.A  of the  Project;  and

- 10  -

(iii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

has  provided  satisfactory  evidence  of  its  ability,  and  has  committed,  to
provide  the  required  Beneficiary's  contribution  to  the  financing  of the
proposed  Sub-project,  as  stated  in  the  Matching  Grant  Manual  for  the
relevant  type  of Sub-project,  out  of its  own  resources  or  resources  other
than the Matching  Grant.

(b) 

The Sub-project  shall  contribute:

to  the  Borrower's  economic  objectives;

to  the  sophistication  and  diversification  of exports  to  include  new goods
and  services;

to  the  Borrower's  competitive  advantage 
comparable  countries; and

in  the  Project  sectors  in

to  the capacity  of the actors  in the  Project  sectors  to utilize  the assistance
provided by  the Project  and to  achieve  tangible  results.

2. 

F. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity to  make each  Matching  Grant
under  a  Matching  Grant  Agreement  with  the  respective  Beneficiary  on  terms  and
conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  including  those  specified  in  the Project  Agreement.

Semi-Annual  Work Plan and Budget

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  March  31  of  each
Fiscal  Year during the  implementation  of the  Project,  a work  plan  and  budget containing
all  activities  proposed  to  be  included  in  the  Project  during  the  following  calendar  year
and  a  proposed  financing  plan  for  expenditures  required  for  such  activities,  setting  forth
the  proposed  amounts  and sources  of financing.

Each  such  proposed  work  plan  and  budget  shall  specify  any  training  activities  that  may
be  required  under  the  Project,  including:  (i)  the  type  of training;  (ii)  the  purpose  of the
training;  (iii)  the  personnel  to  be  trained;  (iv)  the  institution  or  individual  who  will
conduct  the training;  (v)  the  location and  duration  of the training;  and (vi)  the cost of the
training.

The  Borrower shall  afford  the  Bank  a reasonable  opportunity  to exchange  views with  the
Borrower  on  each  such  proposed  work  plan  and  budget  and  shall  thereafter  adopt  and
ensure that the  Project  is  implemented  with  due  diligence  during said  following  calendar
year  in  accordance  with  such  work  plan  and  budget  as  shall  have  been  approved  by  the
Bank  ("Annual  Work Plan  and Budget").

The  Borrower  shall  not  make  or  allow  to  be  made  any  change  to  the  approved  Semi-
Annual  Work  Plan and Budget  without the  Bank's prior approval  in writing.

-1l-

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and  Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the
semester  and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the
end of the period  covered  by such report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause  to  be maintained  a financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days
after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for the  Project
covering the  quarter,  in form and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

its  Financial  Statements  audited 

in  accordance  with  the
The  Borrower  shall  have 
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial
Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower.  The  audited
Financial  Statements  for each such  period shall  be furnished  to the Bank  not  later than six
(6)  months  after the end of such  period.

The  Borrower  shall,  not  later  than  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  Effective  Date,  appoint  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  III  of this  Schedule  2,  and  thereafter  maintain  at
all  times  during  Project  implementation,  an  external  auditor for  the  Project,  with  terms  of
reference,  qualifications and  experience  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services  required
for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with the  requirements  set forth  or  referred to  in  Section  I of the Procurement
Guidelines,  and with the  provisions of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth  or referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the Consultant Guidelines  and
with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to
the  corresponding  method described  in  Sections  II and  III of the  Procurement  Guidelines,
or Sections  II, Ill,  IV  and  V of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the case  may  be.

-12-

B. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2
below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on
the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods  and  non-consulting  services  for  those  contracts  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:

(a) 

National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to the  following  additional  provisions:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

The  eligibility  of the  bidders  shall  be  as  defined  under  Section  I of  the
Procurement  Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder  or  potential  bidder  shall
be  declared  ineligible  for  reasons  other  than  those  provided  in  Section  I
of the  Procurement  Guidelines

No  foreign  bidder  shall  be  required  to  submit  a  bid  in  association  with
domestic  firms  as  a condition  for bidding.

The  bidding  document  clearly  set  out  the  bid  evaluation  process,  the
award  criteria and bidding  qualification  criteria.

Bidding  opportunities  shall  be  advertised  with  no  less  than  thirty  (30)
days  for bid preparation;

Technical  and  financial  bids  are  always  publicly  and  simultaneously
opened,  and  such  public  bid  opening  shall  take  place  immediately  or
closely  after  the  deadline  for  submission  of the  bids.  No  evaluation  of
bids  shall take  place  at  the bid  public  opening session.

Prior to  issuing  the  first call  for  bids,  a draft  standard  bidding  document
to  be  used  under  National  Competitive  Bidding  Procurement  must  be
submitted to, and  found acceptable  by,  the  Bank.

(vii) 

The  procedures  shall  include  publication  of  evaluation  results  and  the
details of the contract awarded.

(viii)  Bids  shall  be  evaluated  based  on price  and  on other  criteria  disclosed  in
the  bid  documents  and  quantified  in  monetary  terms,  and  no  domestic
preference  or  any  kind  of preferential  treatment  for  national  companies
shall  be  applied.  The  verification  of the  compliance  of the  bids  to  the
technical  requirements  set  forth  in  the  bidding  documents  shall  not  be
limited  to  the  technical  offer  of the  bidder  which  has  offered  the  lowest
price;

- 13  -

(ix) 

(x) 

The  contract  shall  be  awarded  to  the  qualified  bidder  having  submitted
the  lowest evaluated  responsive  bid,  and  no negotiation  shall  take  place;
and

Each  bidding  document  and  contract  shall  include  provisions  stating  the
Bank's  policy  to  sanction  firms  or  individuals  which  have  engaged  in
fraud  and corruption  as  set  forth in the Procurement  Guidelines  as  well  as
the  Bank's  right to  inspection  and audit.

(b) 

(c) 

Shopping

Direct  contracting

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of  Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in paragraph 2  below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the  basis  of Quality
and Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  methods,
other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of
consultants'  services  for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:
(a)  Selection  under  a  Fixed  Budget;  (b)  Least  Cost  Selection;  (c)  Selection  based  on
Consultants'  Qualifications;  (d)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of  the
Consultant  Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants;  (e)  Single-source
procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants;  and  (f)  Single-source  Selection  of
consulting firms.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those contracts  which shall  be  subject to  the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be subject to  Post  Review by  the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  II of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as
the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice 
to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time to  time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible Expenditures  as set  forth  in the  table in paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of  Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of
the  Loan  to each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be  financed  for  Eligible
Expenditures  in  each Category.

- 14  -

Amount of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  EUR) 

10,209,250 

Percentage of  Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  non-consulting 

services,  and consultants'
services,  Training, and
Operating Costs  under
Part  I and Part  3 of the
Project.

services, and consultants'
services,  including
Training,  under  Part 2.C
of the  Project.

Export  Finance
Guarantee  facility  under
Part 2.B  of the Project

(b)  Goods,  non-consulting 

services,  and consultants'
services,  including
Training,  under  Part  2.C
of the Project.
(5)  Front-end  Fees 

(2)  Goods,  non-consulting 

2,200,000 

100%

(3)  Matching Grants  under 
Part 2.A  of the  Project

17,000,000 

(4)  (a)  Contribution to  the 

6,000,000 

100%

100%

800,000 

100%

90,750 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
this
2.03 
Section 
Agreement  in  accordance  with
Section  2.07  (b)  of the General
Conditions

of 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

36,300,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

I. 

2. 

The  Closing Date  is December  31,  2020.

Notwithstanding the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be  made  for
payments  made  prior  to the date  of this  Agreement.

- 15-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the
Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by
(b)  the  Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be
adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts  referred to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,
to  which a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

July  1,2014 
January  1,2015 
July  1,2015 
January  1,2016 
July  1, 2016 
January  1,2017 
July  1,2017 
January  1,2018 
July  1,2018 
January  1,2019 
July  1, 2019 
January  1,2020 
July  1,2020 
January  1,2021 
July  1,2021 
January  1,2022 
July  1,2022 
January  1, 2023 
July  1,2023 
January  1,2024 
July  1,2024 
January  1,2025 
July  1, 2025 
January  1,2026 
July  1,2026 
January  1,2027 
July  1,2027 
January  1,2028 
July  1,2028 
January  1,2029 
July  1,2029 
January  1,2030 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
2%
2%
2%
0%
4%
0%
4%
4%
4%
4%
3%
3%
0%
0%
4%
4%
3%
3%
3%

-16-

July  1,2030 
January  1,2031 
July  1, 2031 
January  1, 2032 
July  1,2032 
January  1,2033 
July  1,2033 
January  1, 2034 
July  1,2034 
January  1,2035 
July  1, 2035 
January  1,2036 
July  1,2036 
January  1,2037 
July  1,2037 
January  1,2038 
July  1, 2038 
January  1,2039 
July  1, 2039 
January  1,2040 
July  1,2040 
January  1,2041 
July  1,2041 
January  1,2042 
July  1,2042 
January  1, 2043 
July  1,2043 

0%
0%
2%
3%
3%
0%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
2%
3%

2. 

If  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of  the  first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  determined as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as of such date  in accordance  with paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  repaid  on
each Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the date  of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying  the amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

- 17-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with  the second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the  Bank  adopts  a due  date  billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued
on  or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall  no  longer  apply  to  any  withdrawals  made  after  the  adoption  of
such billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved
Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any
Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying  such amount  in  its  currency  of denomination  immediately  prior
to  the  Conversion by  either:  (i)  the exchange  rate  that reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in
the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction
relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the
Conversion  Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan Currency,  so  as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each such  amount.

-18-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud and Corruption  in Projects  Financed by  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits and Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011.

"Beneficiary"  means,  individually,  a  small  or  medium  commercial  or  manufacturing
direct  or  indirect  exporting  enterprise,  including  a  first  time  direct  or  indirect  exporter,
established  and  operating  within  the  Borrower's  territory,  eligible  to  receive  a Matching
Grant  from  CEPEX  under  the  competitiveness  support  and  export  development  fund  in
accordance  with  the  eligibility  and  selection  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Matching  Grant
Manual,  and  the term  "Beneficiaries"  means,  collectively,  more than one  Beneficiary.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"CEPEX" means  the  Borrower's  Center  for  Export  Promotion  (Centre de Promotion des
Exportations),  an  industrial  and  commercial  public  enterprise  with 
industrial  and
commercial  character  established  and  operating  according  to  the rules  and  regulations  of
the  Borrower  including  under  the  law  establishing  the  CEPEX  and  Decree  No.  2005-
3282  of  19  December  2005  fixing  the  organization  of  CEPEX,  and  such  term  includes
any successor thereto  satisfactory to  the Bank.

the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
"Consultant  Guidelines"  means 
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"
dated  January  2011.

"COTUNACE"  means  the  Borrower's  Tunisian  Company  for  Foreign  Trade  Insurance
(Compagnie Tunisienne pour l'Assurance du Commerce Exterieur), a public  participation
enterprise  established  and  operating  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the
Borrower  including  under  Act  No.  84-40  of 23  June  1984  on  export  credit  insurance  as
amended  by  Act  No.  88  -85  of  16  July  1988,  and  such  term  includes  any  successor
thereto  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

"Covered  Risk"  means  the  risk of loss  suffered  by  a  participating  financial  intermediary
as  a  result  of  the  failure  to  pay  when  due  sums  owing  under  a  pre-shipment  export
finance  loan  granted  to  an  Eligible  Enterprise  in the  context of the  PEFGF, as  determined
in  accordance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  standard  form  of guarantee
certificate.

"Dinars"  and "TD"  mean the Borrower's  lawful  currency.

individually,  a  small  or  medium  commercial  or
"Eligible  Enterprise"  means, 
manufacturing  exporting  enterprise  established  and  operating  within  the  Borrower's
territory, and  engaged,  directly  or indirectly,  in  export transactions  that  are covered  either
by  an irrevocable  documentary  credit  which is  confirmed  in  the Borrower's  territory  by a
participating  financial  intermediary  party  to a  guarantee  certificate  or by  export  insurance

- 19  -

against  market  interruption  and  non-payment,  all  in  compliance  with  the  eligibility  and
selection  criteria  set  forth  in  the  PEFGF  Manual,  and  the  term  "Eligible  Enterprises"
means, collectively,  more  than one Eligible  Enterprise;

"Fiscal  Year"  means,  individually,  the twelve  (12)  month  period  corresponding  to  any  of
the  Borrower's  or CEPEX's  or COTUNACE's  fiscal  years,  which  period  commences  on
January  I and  ends  on  December  31  in  each  calendar  year,  and  the  term  "Fiscal  Years"
means,  collectively, more  than one  Fiscal Year.

"Foreign  Establishment  Guarantee"  means  a  risk  mitigation  instrument  provided  to
companies  to  help  them secure  loans to  open subsidiaries  in foreign  markets.

"Guarantee"  means,  individually,  a  certificate  of guarantee  issued  under  the  PEFGF  by
COTUNACE  to  a  Guarantee  Holder  in  respect  of  a  Covered  Risk,  and  the  term
"Guarantees"  means,  collectively,  more  than  one  Guarantee,  provided,  however,  that
Guarantees  shall  exclude  any  failure  to  pay  sums  owing  under  pre-shipment  export
finance  loans  that  are  due  to:  (i)  the  situation  or  behavior  of the  foreign  buyer,  (ii)  the
occurrence  of  war,  revolution,  riot  or  national  disaster  in  the  territory  of the  foreign
buyer;  or  (iii)  the  occurrence  of  loss  of  or  damage  to  the  production  equipment  of an
Eligible  Enterprise;

"Guarantee  Holder"  means  a  participating  financial  intermediary  who,  having  granted  a
pre-shipment  export  finance  loan  to  an  Eligible  Enterprise  on  the  context  of the  PEFGF
has been  issued  a guarantee  certificate  by  COTUNACE  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of the PEFGF manual;

"General  Conditions"  means 
Development  General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012

the  "International  Bank 

for  Reconstruction 

and

"INNORPI"  means  the  National  Institute  for  Standards  and  Industrial  Property  (Institut
National de  la Normalisation et de  la Propridtd Industrielle) under  the  tutorship  of the
Borrower's  Ministry  of Industry.

"Matching  Grant"  means  funds allocated  or  proposed  to  be allocated  out  of the proceeds
of the  Loan  to an  eligible  Beneficiary  for the  purpose  of financing  a Sub-project  under
Part 2.A  of the Project,  and referred  to in  Section  I.E of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Matching  Grant  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  between  a  Project  Implementing
Entity and an eligible  Beneficiary providing  for a Matching Grant.

"Matching  Grant  Selection  Committee"  means  the  committee  established  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  be  responsible 
for  the  selection  of  the  Matching  Grant
Beneficiaries.

10. 

i1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"MT"  means the Borrower's  Ministry  in charge  of Transport

20. 

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  under  Part  I on  account  of
Project  implementation,  including  office  equipment  and  supplies,  vehicle  operation  and

- 20  -

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

maintenance,  communication  costs,  office  administration  costs,  utilities,  travel  and  per
diem, excluding the salaries  of the Borrower's  civil  servants

"PCMU"  means  the  Project  Coordination  and  Monitoring  Unit  established  within  MTH
pursuant  to  MTH's  (formerly  MOC)  Decision No.  157,  dated  March  26,  1999,  and  such
term includes  any  successor thereto.

"PEFGF" means  the  Pre-shipment  Export  Finance  Guarantee  Facility  established  by  the
PEFGF  Legal  Framework  and  administered  and  operated  by  COTUNACE  pursuant  to
the provisions  of the Project  Agreement  with  COTUNACE  and the PEFGF Manual.

"PEFGF  Legal  Framework"  means  the  law  and/or  decree  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  Loi
99-95  dof  06/12/1999,  establishing  the  PEFGF  and  governing  the  conditions  of  its
administration  and operation.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
May  2,  2014  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from time  to
time in accordance  with  the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Implementing  Entities"  means CEPEX  and COTUNACE.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  operations  manual  dated  January  14,  2005  as
updated,  prepared  by  the  Borrower  for  the  Export  Development  Project  II  and  the
Additional  Financing,  and referred  to  in  Section  I.C.  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  to
be  updated by  the Project  Implementing  Entity and the  Borrower.

"STAM"  means "Socidtd  Tunisienne  d'Acconnage  et  de  Manutention"  established
pursuant to  its  charter and  articles  of incorporation  dated  February  16,  1961.

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  steering  committee  to  be  designated  for,  or established
under, the Project  and  referred to  in Section  I.A.2 of Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

"Sub-project"  means  a  specific  development  project  under  Part  2.A  of the  Project,  to  be
carried  out  by  a  Beheficiary  out  the  proceeds  of  a  Matching  Grant;  and  "Sub-projects"
means  more than one  Sub-project.

"Subsidiary  Agreements"  means the  agreement  referred to  in  Section  .B  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
available  to the  Project  Implementing Entities.

"Training"  means the  cost  associated with  the training  and workshops  including:  (i)  local
and  international  travel,  room,  board  and per diem  expenditures  incurred  by  trainers  and
trainees  in  connection  with  their  training  and  by  non-consultant  training  facilitators;
training  material  preparation,
(ii)  course 

training  facility  rentals; 

fees; 

(iii) 

(iv) 

-21  -

acquisition,  reproduction  and distribution  expenses;  and (v)  other  costs directly  related to
training  preparation  and implementation.

