OFFjCL~

LOAN  NUMBER  8527-EG

Loan Agreement

(Sustainable  Rural  Sanitation  Services  Program)

ARAB REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2015

LOAN  NUMBER  8527-EG

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

Abery 
, 2015,  between ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF
EGYPT  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

('c) 

ARTICLE I  - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an

integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or  referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  five  hundred  fifty  million  United  States  Dollars
(US$550,000,000),  as  such amount may be converted  from time to time through a Currency
Conversion  in accordance  with the provisions of Section  2.08 of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),
to  assist  in financing  the  program  described  in  Schedule  I  to this  Agreement  ("Program").

2.02. 

The Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for  purposes  of taking any
action  required  or permitted  to be taken pursuant  to  this Section  is MHUUC.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent

(0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04. 

The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower  on the withdrawn Loan Balance and outstanding  from
time  to  time  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  (as
defined in paragraph 82 of the General Conditions)  for the Loan Currency  plus the Variable
Spread;  provided,  that  upon a Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such
amount shall  be determined  in  accordance  with  the relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of the
General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment Dates  are March  15  and  September  15  in  each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set  forth  in Schedule  3  to  this Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to an Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest
rate  basis  applicable to:  (A)  all or any  portion of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to a  Fixed  Rate,  or vice versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice  versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate
based  on a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting of limits on  the Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate applicable  to all or any portion of the principal  amount of the Loan
withdrawn and  outstanding by the  establishment  of an  Interest Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this  Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined 
in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be  paid  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the  Bank  shall,  on behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

2.09. 

The Borrower  represents  that  it  has  designated  its  Ministry  of Finance  for the  purpose  of
handling on behalf of the Borrower,  debt service  payments  with respect  to the  Loan.

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Program.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  Part  C  of the  Program  through  MHUUC  and  shall  cause  the
Program  Implementing  Entities  to  carry  out  Parts  A  and  B  of the  Program,  all  with  the
assistance  of the  PMU  and  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article V  of the  General
Conditions,  the  Program  Agreement  and this Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Program  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE  BANK

4.01. 

Pursuant  to  the  provisions  of Section  7.02(m)  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Additional
Event of Suspension consists  of the following:

(a) 

Any  legislation,  license  or other legal  instrument  related to  the  implementation  of
the  Program  or  to  the  establishment  or  operation  of the  Program  Implementing
Entities  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to
affect  materially  and  adversely  the  achievement  of the  objective  of the  Program,
or the  ability of any  Program  Implementing  Entity  to  implement  the  Program  or
any of its obligations  under the Program  Agreement.  Any suspension  based on this
Section  shall continue  until the event (or events)  which gave  rise to the  suspension
has  (or have)  ceased  to  exist,  unless  the  Bank  has notified  the  Borrower that  such
right to  make  withdrawals  has been  restored.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

5.02. 

6.01. 

Subject to  the other  provisions  of this  Article  and  Section  9.01  of the  General  Conditions,
this  Agreement  shall  become  effective  once  the  Bank  has  received  evidence  that  all
necessary  constitutional  procedures  have  been  taken by  the Borrower.

The Effectiveness  Deadline is  the date  one hundred  eighty (180)  days  after the  date of this
Agreement  or  such  later date  as the  Bank may  establish  in accordance  with  the provisions
of Section  9.04 of the  General  Conditions.

ARTICLE VI  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.02  of this  Agreement,  the  Minister  of  International
Cooperation  of the  Borrower  and the  Assistant to the  Minister  for International,  Regional
and  Arab  Financing  Organizations  of the  Ministry  of  International  Cooperation  of  the
Borrower  are  severally  designated  as the  Borrower's  Representative.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of International  Cooperation
8 Adly  Street
Cairo,  Arab Republic  of Egypt

Cable address: 
Ministry  of International  Cooperation 
Cairo,  Arab  Republic of Egypt 

Facsimile:
(202)  2391-2815
(202)  2391-5167

6.03.  The Bank's  Address is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

P'  CDO 

((1.AP, 

as  of the  day  and  year

first above  written.

ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF  E 

T

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

q

Name:  & 

Title:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

&a 

1k

Title:

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Description

The objective of the  Program is to  strengthen institutions  and policies  for increasing  access
and  improving rural  sanitation  services  in the  Governorates  of Beheira,  Dakahliya and  Sharkiya  in
the  Arab Republic  of Egypt.

The Program  is  a  part  of the Borrower's  National  Rural  Sanitation  Program  and  consists

of the  following  activities:

Part A:  Improved  Sanitation Access

1. 

2. 

3. 

I. 

1. 

2. 

Provision  of access to  sanitation to about  833,000  people  living in  highly polluted  villages
and  satellite  areas  within  the  Program  Area  in  the  three  Participating  Governorates  of
Dakahliya,  Sharkiya,  and  Beheira,  through  the  construction  by  the  respective  WSCs  of
about  167,000  new  connections  from  household  to  a  sewer  network  that  is  linked  to  a
wastewater  treatment  facility  or other  effective wastewater  treatment  system.

Constructing  or  upgrading of wastewater  treatment  facilities  to  appropriate  standards.

Utilization of Performance-based  Capital  Grants  made  by  MHUUC  to  WSCs  to  carry  out
priority  rural  sanitation  investments  identified  through  the  Master  Plans  and  included  in
the  Annual  Capital  Investment  Plan  of the WSCs.

Part B:  Improved Operational Systems  and  Practices of WSCs

Strengthening  the capacities  of the WSCs to  improve their performance  in the operational,
financial,  institutional,  and  citizen  engagement  areas,  including  in  the  planning  and
implementation  of infrastructure  investments  and  in  their  operational  and  maintenance
requirements,  improving efficiency  and  reducing  costs,  and  designing and  implementing
performance  improvement  plans.

Part C: Strengthened  National Sector  Framework

Carrying  out  a program  of activities  for  strengthening  the  enabling  environment  for  more
efficient  and  accountable  rural  sanitation  service  delivery  including:  (i)  the  development
of  a  tariff  structure  for  sanitation  services  that  would  enable  cost  recovery;  (ii)  the
formulation  of a National  Rural  Sanitation  Strategy;  and (iii)  the finalization of the standard
operating  procedures  for land  acquisition  for rural  sanitation  services.

Carrying out policy  and analytical  studies  to  inform the policy  making process  in the rural
sanitation  sector  including,  building  and  sustaining  an  effective  regulatory  and  oversight
framework,  and  improving  the  capacity  to  conduct  regular  and  timely  financial  and
performance  audits  of  WSCs,  aimed  at  providing  a  strong  enabling  framework  for
empowering the  WSCs  to become  efficient  and  accountable service  delivery  institutions.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Program Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Program Fiduciary, Environmental  and  Social  Systems

1. 

2. 

C. 

1  .

Without  limitation  on the provisions  of Article  V of the General  Conditions,  the Borrower,
through  MHUUC,  shall  carry  out  and  shall  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out  by  the
Program  Implementing  Entities,  in  accordance  with  financial  management,  procurement
and  environmental  and  social  management  systems  acceptable  to  the  Bank  ("Program
Fiduciary,  Environmental  and  Social  Systems")  which are  designed  to ensure that:

the Loan  proceeds  are  used for their intended  purposes, with due attention to  the principles
of economy,  efficiency,  effectiveness,  transparency,  and accountability;  and

the  actual  and  potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of the  Program  are
identified,  avoided,  minimized,  or  mitigated,  as  the case  may  be,  all  through  an  informed
decision-making  process.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower,  though
MHUUC,  shall  carry  out  and  shall  cause  the  Program  Implementing  Entities  to  carry  out
the  Program,  in accordance  with  the  provisions of the  Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Other Program Institutional and  Implementation Arrangements

Without  limitation  on  the  generality  of Part  A  of this  Section  1,  the  Borrower  shall,  and
shall  cause the  Program  Implementing  Entities to  carry  out the  Action  Plan,  in  accordance
with the time  schedule  set out  in the said  Action  Plan  in  a manner acceptable  to  the  Bank.
Except  as the  Bank may agree  after  consultation  with  the Borrower,  the Borrower through
MHUUC  shall  not,  and  shall  ensure  that  the  Action  Plan  is  not  amended,  waived,
suspended,  terminated  or  abrogated,  by  the  Program  Implementing  Entities.

2. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  through  MHUUC  shall  maintain the PMU  with  terms  of reference,
powers,  functions  and resources,  acceptable  to  the Bank,  and  with  composition  of
its
staff 
responsibilities  under the program.

in  sufficient  numbers  and  adequate  qualifications 

to  carry  out 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MHUUC,  no  later  than  three  months  after  the
Effectiveness  Date,  hire  and  thereafter  retain  a  consultant  firm  with  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank to  provide  support to  the  PMU  in  management
and  coordination  of the Program,  including the  planning  of projects  and activities
under the NRSP  and the Program,  project management,  supervision  of engineering
works,  assistance  in  procurement  processes,  and  quality  assurance  relating  to  the
overall  implementation  of the Program.

-7-

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MHUUC  and  with  the  assistance  of the  PMU,  carry  out  its
respective  activities  under Part  C  of the  Program  in  accordance  with the provisions  of the
Program  Operations  Manual  and  a time frame  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Except  as the  Bank
may  agree  after  consultation  with  the  Borrower,  the  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  waive,
suspend,  terminate  or abrogate the  Program  Operations  Manual  or  any provision thereof.

The Borrower  shall, through MHUUC,  implement the  recommendations  resulting from the
implementation  of the  activities  under  Part  C  of the  Program  in  a  manner  and  timeframe
acceptable to  the  Bank.

The Borrower  shall, through  MHUUC,  take all  actions as may be needed  in order to enable
HCWW to  implement its respective activities  under the Program and to fulfil  its  obligations
under the Program  Agreement.

through  MHUUC,  provide  for  each  Fiscal  Year  during  the
The  Borrower  shall, 
implementation  of the  Program  a  Performance-based  Capital  Grant to  each  WSC  in  two
installments, the  first at the  start of the  Fiscal  Year  in July and the  second  in January  of the
same  Fiscal  Year  for  the purpose  of carrying out  its  Annual  Capital  Investment  Plan.  The
amount of said Grant  shall consist  of:  (a)  a base  amount from year  1  of the Program  which
shall  be determined  by the PMU  based on the  WSC achieving  the  Minimum Requirements
in  accordance  with  principles,  methodology  and  arrangements  as  set  out  in  the  Program
Operations  Manual;  and  (b)  an  incentive  amount  from  year  3  of the  Program  which  shall
be  determined  by  the  PMU  based  on  the  WSC's Annual  Performance  Assessment  under
its Performance  Improvement  Action Plan  in accordance  with  principles,  methodology and
arrangements  as  set  out in  the Program  Operations  Manual.

The Borrower  shall,  through  MHUUC,  cause  the  PMU  with  the  collaboration  of HCWW,
to  evaluate  the  achievement  of the  Minimum  Requirements  and  to  carry  out  Annual
Performance  Assessment  of the  WSCs  under their  respective  Performance  Improvement
Action  Plan  as  referred  to  in  paragraph  6  above,  all  in  accordance  with  principles,
methodology  and  arrangements  set out  in the  Program  Operations  Manual.

The Borrower  shall, through  MHUUC,  no later than  June 30,  2016,  establish,  a complaints
and  grievance  redressal  mechanism  to  handle  complaints  and  grievances  from  Program
beneficiaries  or third parties relating to any aspects  of the Program including adverse  social
and environmental  impacts,  and allegations  of fraud and corruption.  Such mechanism  shall,
inter alia, contain  procedures  for  recording  of complaints  and  grievances,  directing  the
complainants  to  the  appropriate  level  for  action,  the  review  process,  and  provision  of
feedback  to  the  complainant  on  the  action  taken  on  the  basis  of  best  practice  service
standards.

The  Borrower  shall,  no  later  than  three  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  engage  an
Independent  Verification Agent,  to  prepare  and  provide  verification  reports  certifying  the
achievement  of the DLRs,  all  in  accordance  with  procedures  and arrangements  acceptable
to the  Bank as  referred  to  in  Section  IV.B. 1(b)  of this  Schedule.

-8-

10 

A. 

B. 

To facilitate  the carrying  out of the  Program,  the Borrower  shall, through  MHUUC,  make
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Program  Implementing  Entities  in  a  timely
manner.

Section II. 

Excluded  Activities

The  Borrower  shall, through  MHUUC,  ensure that  the Program  excludes  any activities  which:

in the  opinion of the  Bank, are  likely to  have  significant  adverse  impacts  that are  sensitive,
diverse,  or unprecedented  on  the environment  and/or  affected  people;  or

involve  the procurement  of: (1)  works, estimated  to  cost US$50  million  equivalent or more
per contract;  (2)  goods,  estimated  to cost  US$30  million  equivalent  or  more  per contract;
(3)  non-consulting  services,  estimated  to  cost  US$20  million  equivalent  or  more  per
contract;  or  (4) consultants'  services,  estimated  to  cost  US$15  million  equivalent or  more
per contract.

Section  III. 

Program Monitoring,  Reporting and  Evaluation;  Audits

A. 

Program Reports

The Borrower shall, through  MHUUC,  and shall  cause the  Program Implementing  Entities,
to  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of  the  Program  and  prepare  Program  Reports  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section 5.08  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  Program
Report shall  cover  the period  of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall  be furnished  to  the  Bank
not  later than one  month after the  end of the  period  covered  by  such report.

B. 

Program Financial  Audits

Without  limitation  on the  generality  of Section  l.A  of this  Schedule  2  and Section  5.09  of
the General  Conditions,  the Borrower  shall, through MHUUC,  and  shall cause the Program
Implementing  Entities,  to  have  the  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the  Financial
Statements  shall cover the  period of one fiscal  year of the  Borrower.  The  audited Financial
Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be:  (a)  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  (6)
months  after the  end  of such  period;  and (b)  made  publically  available  in  a timely fashion
and  in a manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan  Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such additional  arrangements  as
the  Bank  may  specify  from  time  to  time by  notice  to  the  Borrower  to:  (a)  pay  the  Front-
end  Fee;  (b)  pay  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate Collar  premium;  and  (c)  finance
the  Program  Expenditures,  on  the basis  of the  results  ("Disbursement  Linked  Results"  or
"DLRs")  achieved  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Program  Implementing  Entities,  as  the  case

-9-

may be  and as  measured  against  specific  indicators  ("Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or
"DLIs"),  all  as set forth  in the  table  in paragraph  2  of this  Part A.

2. 

The  following  table  specifies  each  category  of withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
(including 
the
Disbursement  Linked  Results  for each  Category  (as  applicable),  and the  allocation  of the
amounts of the Loan  to each  Category:

the  Disbursement  Linked 

Indicators  as  applicable) 

("Category"), 

Category 
(including  Disbursement 
Linked Indicator as  applicable) 

Disbursement 
Linked Result (as 
applicable) 

#1.1: 

completed 
for  at  least  25,000 

least  167,000  designs 

(1)  DLI  #1:  Establishment  and  DLR 
functioning  of  at 
new  House hold  (HH) connections 
to  working  sanitation  systems  in  connections
villages  and  satellites  of which  at
least  10% of the connections  are  in  DLR #1.2.1:  Final
design  completed
satellites. 
for at least 67,000
connections

Amount  of the  Disbursement

Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in
USD)

Final  220,000,000 

Calculation
Formula

DLR 
#1.1:
$15,000,000  for
FY  16

- 10-

DLR #1.2.2:10,000 
new  HH 
connections 
established 

DLR #1.3:  Total  of 
40,000 
New  House  holds 
connections 
in 
established 
villages  (Cumulative 
connections  50,000) 

DLR# 
1.2.1:
$12,950,000  for
final 
designs
completed for at
67,000
least 
new
connections

DLR#  1.2.2:
$11,500,000  of
which  $1150  for
each  connection
established 
for
FY17  provided
that 
least
at 
2,000
connections
have 
established.

been

DLR 
#1.3:
$46,000,000  of
which 
($1150)
for 
each
connection
established 
for
FY  18  provided
least
at 
that 
8,000  new  HH

-ll-

DLR  #1.4: Total  of 
50,000 
New  House  holds 
connections 
established 
in 
villages  (Cumulative 
connections 
100,000) 

DLR  #1.5:  Total  of 
67,000 
New  House  holds 
connections 
established 
in 
villages  (Cumulative 
connections 
167,000) 

connections
have 
established.

been

DLR 
#1.4:
$57,500,000  of
which $1150  for
each  connection
established 
for
FY  19  provided
that 
least
at 
10,000  new  HH
connections
have 
established.

been

DLR #1.5:
$77,050,000  of
which $1150  for
each  connection
established 
for
FY  20  provided
that:  (1)  at  least
13,400  new  HH
connections
have 
been
established,  and
(2) 
least
at 
16,700  new  HH
connections
have 
established 
"satellites"

been
in

# 

DLR 
2:
$40,000,000  of
which
$8,000,000 
for
each  of  FY  16,
FY  17,  FY  18,
FY  19  and  FY
20

(2)  DLI  #2:  Annual  transfer  of  DLR  #2:  PBCG  has  40,000,000 
Performance-based  Capital  Grants  been  transferred  by 
(PBCG)  by  MHUUC  to  eligible  MHUUC  to  eligible 
WSCs  pursuant  to  the  provisions  WSCs. 
of  paragraph  6  of  Section  LC  of 
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement 

#3: 

and  DLR 

(3)  DLI 
Design 
implementation  of  the  Annual  Performance 
Performance  Assessment  (APA) 
system  for  the  WSCs,  and  WSCs  Plans 
achievement  of the  required  APA  prepared 
threshold  scores 
with 
Manual. 

in  accordance 
the  Program  Operations

three  WSCs.

Improvement  Action 
(PIAPs)
the
for 

#3.1: 

170,000,000 

DLR# 
3.1:
$15,000,000  for
FY  16

- 12-

DLR #3.2:  A manual 
for  carrying  out  the 
APA  of  the  WSCs 
has  been  prepared
and the  first APA  for
three
each  of  the 
WSCs 
been
has 
carried  out.

Each 
#3.3: 
DLR 
WSC  has  achieved 
the 
minimum 
threshold 
APA 
scores  in  accordance 
with  the  manual  and
the 
Program
Operations  Manual.

tariff 
for  water 
sanitation
has  been
by

services 
prepared 
MHUUC.

DLR  #4.2:  A  new 
tariff 
national 
structure 
for  water
sanitation
and 
services  has  been
by
approved 
MHUUC  and  decree
has been  issued.

DLR# 
3.2:
$20,000,000  for
FY  17

3.3:
DLR# 
$45,000,000  for
each  of  FY  18,
FY  19  and  FY
20

DLR# 
4.1:
$10,000,000  for
FY  15

DLR# 
$40,000,000

4.2:

and  DLR  #  4.1:  A  new  50,000,000 

(4)  DLI  #4:  Preparation 
approval  of  a  new  national  tariff  national 
structure 
structure  for  water  and  sanitation 
services  by  MHUUC  to  allow  for  and 
sustainable  cost recovery 

(5)  DLI #5:  Establishment of PMU  DLR  #5.1:  PMU  has  50,000,000 
and  approval  of  a  National  Rural  been  created  with  a 
Sanitation  Strategy  by  MHUUC. 
the 
and
of
the
Rural

mandate 
formulation 
coordination 
NRSP 
National 
Sanitation Strategy

and 

for 

- 13-

DLR#  5.2:  National 
Rural 
Sanitation 
Strategy  has  been
by
approved 
MHUUC.

Key 
DLR#5.3: 
for 
Action  Plans 
implementing 
the
National 
Rural
Sanitation  Strategy
have  been  designed.

DLR 
#5.1:
$10,000,000  for
FY  15

DLR 
$30,000,000

#5.2:

DLR 
$10,000,000

#5.3:

(6)  DLI  #6:  Approval  of Standard  DLR  #6:  Standard 
Operating  Procedures 
acquisition 
MHUUC. 

for 
under  NRSP 

land  Operating 

by  Procedures  for  land 
under
acquisition 
NRSP  have  been
approved 
by
MHUUC.

to  be  paid 
(7)  Front-end  Fee 
pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  this 
in  accordance  with 
Agreement 
Section  2.07(b)  of  the  General 
Conditions 

(8)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest 
Rate  Collar  premium  to  be  paid 
pursuant  to  Section  2.08(c) of this 
in  accordance  with 
Agreement 
the  General 
Section  4.05  of 
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT 

18, 625,000 

DLR #6:
$18,  625,000  for
FY  17

1,375,000 

0 

550,000,000

Amount
payable
to
pursuant 
Section  2.03  of
this  Agreement
accordance
in 
Section
with 
2.07  (b)  of  the
General
Conditions
due
Amount 
to
pursuant 
Section  2.08(c)
this
of 
Agreement

- 14  -

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be made:

(a) 

(b) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

for purposes  of Section  2.05  of the  General  Conditions,  for payments  for  Program
Expenditures  made  prior  to  the date  of this  Agreement,  except that  withdrawal  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  US$20,000,000  may  be  made  for  such
payments  made  prior  to this  date  but  on or after January  31,  2015;  and

for  any  DLR  under  Categories  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5)  or  (6),  unless  the  Borrower
through  MHUUC  and  the  Program  Implementing  Entities  have  furnished  all
required  verification  documents  and  information  acceptable  to the  Bank showing
that  said  DLR  has  been  achieved.  Such  verification  documents  and  information
shall  include  verification  reports  from  the  Independent  Verification  Agent
(excluding  DLRs  4.1  and  5.1),  based  on  reports  prepared  by  MHUUC  and  the
Program  Implementing  Entities  certifying  the  achievement  of  the  DLRs 
in
accordance  with  procedures  and  arrangements,  and  verification  protocols
acceptable  to  the Bank.

2. 

(a) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  B. 1(b)  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  may
withdraw  an  amount not  to  exceed  $137,500,000  as an  advance  under Categories
(1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5)  or  (6).

If the  DLR/DLRs  for any said  Category  in the opinion of the Bank  is  not achieved
or  is  only  partially  achieved  by  the  date  by  which  said DLR  is set  to  be achieved
or  by  the  Closing  Date,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  by  the  Bank,
refund to  the  Bank  such advance  or portion  of such  advance  as determined  by  the
Bank  in accordance  with  the provisions  of paragraph  3  of this  Part  B.

Except  as  otherwise  agreed with  the  Borrower,  the  Bank shall  cancel  the  amount
so  refunded pursuant  to  paragraph 2  (b)  above.  Any further  withdrawals requested
as  an  advance  under  any  Category  shall  be  endorsed  only  on  such  terms  and
conditions  as  the  Bank shall  specify  by  notice  to the  Borrower.

3. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  B.1(b)  of this  Section,  if  in the opinion of the Bank
any  of the  DLRs  under Category  (1)  has  not  been  achieved  by  the  date  by  which  the  said
DLR is set to be achieved,  the Bank may, during  Program implementation,  after consulting
with the  Borrower, determine,  to:

authorize  the  withdrawal  of such  lesser amount  of the  unwithdrawn  proceeds  of
the  Loan  then  allocated  to  said  Category  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,
corresponds  to  the  extent  of achievement  of  said DLR,  said  lesser  amount to  be
calculated  in accordance  with the  Disbursement Calculation  Formula set  out in the
fourth  column  of the table  in  Section IV.A.2  of this  Schedule;

(b) 

reallocate  all  or a portion  of the proceeds  of the Loan  allocated to said DLR to any
other DLR;  and/or

- 15  -

(c) 

cancel  all  or  a portion  of the  proceeds  of the Loan  allocated  to  said  DLR.

The Closing  Date is  October 31,  2020.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the foregoing  provisions of this Section  IV,  if at any time after the Closing
Date  the  Borrower  has  failed  to  provide  evidence  acceptable  to  the  Bank  that  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  does  not exceed  the total  amount  of Program  Expenditures  paid
by the Borrower,  exclusive  of any such  expenditures  financed  by  any other  financier  or by
the  Bank  or  the  Association  under  any  other  loan,  credit  or  grant,  the  Borrower  shall,
promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  such  excess  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance.  The  Bank shall  cancel  the  refunded  amount of the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance.

- 16-

SCHEDULE  3

The following  table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment Dates  of the  Loan and the  percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds of the Loan  have  been fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the first Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share  for each  Principal Payment Date, such repayable  amount to be adjusted,  as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each  September  15  and  March  15

Beginning September  15,  2020 
through  September  15,  2049

On March  15,  2050 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

1,67%

1,47%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not  been fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal  Payment Date, the  Borrower  shall repay the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance as
of such date  in  accordance  with paragraph  I  of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling after the  date  of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount of each  such withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn within two calendar months  prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and outstanding
on the second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the Bank adopts  a due date  billing system  under which  invoices  are  issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-

- 17-

paragraph shall  no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after the adoption of such
billing  system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion  of all or any portion of the  Withdrawn Loan  Balance to an  Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,  shall  be determined by the  Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate component  of the  Screen Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions of this Schedule  shall  apply separately  to  the amount denominated  in each Loan
Currency,  so  as to  produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

- 18-

Section  I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Action  Plan"  means  the  plan  of MHUUC  and  the  Program  Implementing  Entities  dated
June  17,  2015, and referred  to in  Section I.C.1  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement  and Section
I.C. I  of the Program  Agreement,  as may be amended  from time to time with the agreement
of the  Bank.

"Annual  Capital  Investment  Plan"  means  the  Annual  Plan  prepared  by  each  WSC  within
the  framework  of  the  Master  Plan  of each  WSC  that  sets  out  the  rural  sanitation  and
wastewater  treatment infrastructure  investments to be carried  out each year in order to meet
the  objectives  of the NRSP.

"Annual  Performance  Assessment"  means  the  assessment  to  be  carried  out  each  Fiscal
Year  by  the  PMU  with  the  collaboration  of  HCWW  for  each  WSC  to  determine  the
incentive  amount  component  of  the  Performance-based  Capital  Grant  for  which  it  is
eligible,  said  assessment  to  be  based  on  criteria  related  to  operational,  financial,
institutional  and  citizen  engagement  dimensions  and  to  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with
methodology  and arrangements  set out  in the Program  Operations  Manual  and  included in
its Performance  Improvement  Action  Plan.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
and  Corruption 
Combating  Fraud 
February  1,  2012.

the  Bank's  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
dated
in  Program-for-Results 

Financing", 

"Beheira  WSC"  means  the Beheira  Water and  Sanitation  Company  established  pursuant to
Presidential  Decree  135  of 2004 as a subsidiary  company  of HCWW.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth  in the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

"Dakahliya  WSC"  means  the  Dakahliya  Water  and  Sanitation  Company  established
pursuant  to  Presidential  Decree  135  of 2004 as a subsidiary  company  of HCWW.

"Disbursement  Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  in  respect  of  a  given  Category,  the
indicator related  to  said Category  as set  forth  in the table  in Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked  Result" or "DLR"  means  in  respect  of a  given Category,  the result
under  said  Category  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  on  the basis of the  achievement of which,  the amount  of the Loan  allocated to
said result  may be withdrawn  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of said Section  IV.

10. 

the  fiscal  year  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Program
"Fiscal  Year"  or  "FY"  means 
Implementing  Entities beginning on  July  1  of a calendar  year and ending on  June  30 of the
following  calendar year.

- 19-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for  Reconstruction and  Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the  modifications  set forth  in
Section II  of this  Appendix.

"HCWW"  means the Borrower's  Holding Company  for Water and  Wastewater established
pursuant to Presidential  Decree  135  of 2004.

"Independent Verification  Agent" means  an independent  entity to  be engaged by  MHUUC
for the purposes  of certifying the  achievement of the  DLRs  as  referred  to in  Section  I.C(9)
of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"LE" means  Egyptian  Pound,  the  lawful  currency of the  Borrower.

"Master  Plan"  means  the  Master  Plan  prepared  by  each  WSC  that  is  designated  to  meet
demand  projected  out to  2037 for rural  sanitation  and  wastewater  treatment  infrastructure
investments  in  accordance  with  the  objectives  of the  NRSP,  and  which  may  be  updated
from time to  time to  meet  said objectives.

"MHUUC"  means  the  Ministry  of  Housing,  Utilities  and  Urban  Communities  of  the
Borrower  or any  successor  thereto.

"Minimum  Requirements"  means  the  requirements  to  be  achieved  by  each  WSC  in  order
to  be  eligible  for  the  base  amount  of the  Performance-based  Capital  Grant  and  evaluated
in  accordance  with  principles,  methodology  and  arrangements  as  set  out  in  the  Program
Operations  Manual.

"National  Rural  Sanitation  Program"  or  "NRSP"  means  the  Borrower's  Rural  Sanitation
Program  aimed  at  providing  universal  access  to  sustainable  rural  sanitation  services  to
about  45  million people  and to reinforce  a series  of performance  improvement  measures at
initiatives  to  address  persistent  sector
the  local  utility  level,  supported  by  national 
challenges,  including  improving cost  recovery  and  the overall  accountability  framework.

"Participating  Governorates"  means  the  Borrower's  Governorates  of Beheira,  Dakahliya
and Sharkiya within which  the  Program  Area  is located.

"Performance-based  Capital  Grants"  means  the  annual  fiscal  transfers  from  MHUUC's
budget  into the annual  budget  of the  WSCs consisting  of a base  amount  from year  I  of the
Program based on achieving the  Minimum Requirements set  out in the Program Operations
Manual,  and  an  incentive  amount  from  year  3  of the  Program  based  on  their  Annual
Performance  Assessments  under  the  Performance  Improvement  Action  Plan,  all  in
accordance  with  principles,  methodology  and  arrangements  set  out  in  the  Program
Operations  Manual  which  the WSCs  can  use to  finance the  investment  projects  prioritized
in  their  Annual  Capital  Investment  Plans,  and  aimed  at  strengthening  accountability  and
transparency  of the  WSCs and  their service delivery  model  and  improving  national  policy
and  oversight.

21. 

"Performance  Improvement  Action  Plan"  means  the  Plan  of each  WSC  to  improve  its
operational  and  financial  performance  and  on the  basis of which  its  Annual  Performance

-20-

Assessment  is  carried  out  to  be  eligible  for  the  incentive  amount  component  of  the
Performance  based Capital  Grant  from year 3  of the Program.

"Program  Agreement"  means the agreement  between the Bank and HCWW, Beheira WSC,
Dakahliya  WSC  and  Sharkiya  WSC  of even  date  herewith,  as the  same  may  be amended
from  time  to  time,  and  such term  includes  all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental  to
such  Program Agreement.

"Program  Area"  means  the  villages  and  satellites  (areas  generally  on  the  outskirts  of the
main  villages)  within the Participating  Governorates  identified  in  the  Program  Operations
Manual  where  the  Program  will be  carried  out.

"Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental  and  Social  Systems"  means  the  Borrower's  and  the
Program  Implementing  Entity's  systems  for  the  Program  referred  to  in  Section  L.A  of
Schedule  2 to this  Agreement  and  Sections  L.A  of the  Schedule to  the Program Agreement.

"Program  Implementing  Entities"  means  HCWW,  Beheira  WSC,  Dakahliya  WSC  and
Sharkiya WSC.

"Program  Management  Unit"  or  "PMU" means  the  Unit  established  within  the  Office  of
the  Minister  of MHUUC  by  Decree  154  of 2015  issued  by  the  Borrower's  MHUUC  for
purposes,  inter alia, of coordinating  the  implementation  of the  Program  and  the  NRSP,
including  preparing  strategic  action  plans,  supervising  procurement  activities,  reviewing
and  approving investment  plans,  following  up  on  the  status  of implementation,  preparing
performance  and evaluation  reports,  and liaising  with  partners  and donors.

for 

implementing 

"Program  Operations  Manual"  means  the  Manual  to  be  adopted  by  the  Borrower  and  the
Program  Implementing  Entities  pursuant  to the requirements  of the  Action Plan  setting out
roles  and
the  details 
responsibilities  of the  parties, as well  as the  principles,  methodology  and  arrangements  for
the verification  of the  DLIs and DLRs, the  provision of Performance-based  Capital Grants,
and the preparation,  implementation  and evaluation  of the Action  Plan, the Annual  Capital
Investment  Plan, the Annual  Performance  Assessment,  the Master  Plan,  and  Performance
Improvement  Action  Plan.

the  respective 

the  Program, 

including 

"Sharkiya  WSC"  means the  Sharkiya Water and  Sanitation  Company  established  pursuant
to  Presidential  Decree  135  of 2004 as a subsidiary  company  of HCWW.

"WSCs"  means  Beheira  WSC,  Dakahliya  WSC  and  Sharkiya  WSC  collectively  and
"WSC"  means  individually  any  one  of  said  subsidiary  companies  as  the  context  may
require.

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

Section  II.  Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby  modified  as follows:

1. 

Wherever  used  throughout  the  General  Conditions,  the  term  "the  Project"  is  modified  to
read  "the  Program",  the  term  "the  Project  Agreement"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program

-21 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Agreement",  the  term  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program
Implementing  Entity",  the  term  "Project  Report"  is  modified  to  read  "Program  Report";
and the term  "Eligible  Expenditures"  is modified to read  "Program  Expenditures".

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are modified  to  reflect the  amendments  set forth below.

Section 2.02, Special Commitment by  the Bank, is deleted  in  its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections  in Article  II  are renumbered  accordingly.

In  Section  2.02  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.03),  the  heading  "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is  replaced  with "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the  phrase "or  to  request the Bank to  enter  into a  Special  Commitment"  is deleted.

The  section  originally  numbered  as  Section  2.04,  Designated Accounts  is  deleted  in  its
entirety,  and the  subsequent  Sections  in Article  II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.03  (originally numbered  as Section 2.05),  Eligible Expenditures
(renamed  "Program  Expenditures"  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this  Section  II),  is
modified  to  read:  "(a)  the  payment  is  for  the  financing  of  the  reasonable  cost  of
expenditures  required  for  the  Program  and to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan
in accordance  with the provisions  of the Legal  Agreements;".

The  last sentence  of Section  2.04  (originally  numbered  as Section 2.06),  Financing Taxes,
is modified to  read: "To that end,  if the Bank at any time determines that the amount of any
such  Tax  is  excessive,  or  that  such  Tax  is  discriminatory  or  otherwise  unreasonable,  the
Bank may,  by  notice to  the Borrower,  exclude such  amount or such Tax  from the  Program
Expenditures  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  as  required  to  ensure
consistency with  such policy  of the  Bank."

8. 

Section 2.06  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.08),  Reallocation, is modified  to read:

"Notwithstanding  any allocation  of an amount  of the Loan to  a withdrawal  category  under
the Loan Agreement,  the  Bank may,  by notice to the Borrower,  reallocate  any other amount
of  the  Loan  to  such  category  if the  Bank  reasonably  determines  at  any  time  that  such
reallocation  is appropriate  for the purposes  of the Program.

9. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at  the rate

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower  shall  pay the Bank a commitment  charge  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement  to  the respective  dates  on  which  amounts are  withdrawn  by the  Borrower from

-
- 22  -

the Loan  Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually
in  arrears on each  Payment  Date."

Section  7.01,  Cancellation by  the Borrower, is  modified  to  read:  "The  Borrower  may,  by
notice  to the  Bank,  cancel  any amount  of the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance."

Paragraph  (d)  of  Section  7.03,  Cancellation by  the  Bank,  entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted,  and subsequent  paragraphs  are  relettered  accordingly.

Section  7.04,  Amounts  Subject  to  Special Commitment  not Affected  by  Cancellation or
Suspension by  the Bank, is  deleted  in  its entirety,  and  subsequent  Sections  in  Article  VII
and  references to such  Sections  are  renumbered  accordingly.

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as necessary,  to  reflect  the modifications  set  forth above.

A  new  paragraph  19  is  inserted  with  the  following  definition  of "Commitment  Charge",
and  the remaining paragraphs  are  renumbered  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In the  renumbered  paragraph 49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix, the  definition
of "Front-end  Fee" is modified  by replacing  the reference  to  Section  3.01  with Section 3.01
(a).

In  the renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but not  limited
interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

In  the renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge are"  after the  word  "interest".

Renumbered  paragraph  88  (originally  paragraph  87)  of the  Appendix,  setting  forth  the
definition of "Special  Commitment"  is deleted  in its entirety,  and all subsequent  paragraphs
are renumbered  accordingly.

10. 

1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

