OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8560-MA

Loan Agreement

(Urban  Transport Program)

KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated December 21,  2015

LOAN  NUMBER  8560-MA

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  December  21,  2015,  between  KINGDOM  OF  MOROCCO
AND

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank"). The  Borrower and  the  Bank  hereby agree  as  follows:

INTERNATIONAL 

BANK 

and 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees  to  lend to the Borrower, on the  terms and conditions  set forth  or referred
to  in this Agreement,  the amount  of two hundred  million Dollars  ($200,000,000),  as such
amount  may  be converted  from  time to time through  a Currency  Conversion in accordance
with  the provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing the
program  described  in  Schedule  I to this Agreement  ("Program").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  All withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account  shall  be  deposited
by the  Bank into an  account  specified  by  the  Borrower  and  acceptable to the  Bank.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The interest payable  by the Borrower  for each  Interest Period  shall be  at a rate equal  to the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount of the  Loan,  the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable  by the  Borrower  shall  instead be calculated  as provided  in  Section  3.02 (e)
of the General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates  are January  15  and July  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth in  Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the following  Conversions  of the
terms of the Loan  in order to facilitate  prudent debt management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to  an Approved Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the interest
rate basis  applicable to:  (A)  all or any  portion of the principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn and  outstanding  from a  Variable  Rate to a  Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to a  Variable  Rate
based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the setting of limits on the Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate applicable  to all or any  portion of the  principal  amount of the Loan
withdrawn and  outstanding by  the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on the Variable Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion requested  pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the premium  be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to the
amount  allocated  from  time  to time  for the  purpose  in the table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Program.  To  this end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out the  Program  through  the Mol  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article V  of the  General Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Program  is carried  out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date  one hundred  and twenty  (120)  days  after the  date  of
this  Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister of Economy  and  Finance.

-3-

5.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministre  de l'Economie  et des  Finances
Avenue Mohammed  V
Rabat
Kingdom  of Morocco

Cable: 

MINFIN 

5.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

Facsimile:

212-537-67-75-32

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  C-66- 

_u< , 

/Y1)r  ol Lo 

, as of the day and year first above

written.

KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Mohamed  Boussaid

Title:  Mi  ister of Economy  and Finance

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FO
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  D  VELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Marie  Francoise  Marie-Nelly

Title:  Country  Director

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Description

The objective  of the Program  is to strengthen the  capacity  of urban  transport institutions  to
plan,  implement  and  monitor  infrastructure  and  services,  and  to  improve  the  level  of service  of
urban transport on targeted  corridors  in the  Program  Area.

The Program  consists  of the  following  activities to be  implemented  in the Program  Area:

Part 1:  Strengthening  central capacity  to  plan and monitor urban transport

1.  Strengthening  the  central  monitoring  and  evaluation  system  for the urban  transport sector.

2.  Strengthening  the  Urban  Transport  Fund  (FART) by  supporting,  inter alia, the  applicable

decision  making framework  and  the  financing of urban transport projects.

Part 2:  Strengthenin2  local  capacity  to  plan, implement,  and monitor urban transport

1.  Strengthening  local  capacity  to  coordinate  initiatives  at  the  urban  agglomeration  level
institutional
the  creation  of  associations  of  agglomerations  or  similar 

through 
arrangements.

2.  Strengthening  local  technical  capacity  and  resources  to  plan  urban  transport  activities,
through:  (i)  the  preparation  of  urban  mobility  planning  documents  using  a  structured
process  and  a  participatory  approach;  and  (ii)  the  carrying  out  of sector-specific  capacity
building  programs.

3.  Strengthening  local  capacity  to  implement  and  monitor  urban transport  infrastructure  and

systems  via municipally-owned  enterprises.

Part 3:  Improving  the level  of  service  of urban transport on  targeted corridors

Carrying  out of a program of Eligible  Sub-projects  in Participating Cities for the  financing  of urban
transport  corridors  to improve the  level  of service  of urban  transport for users.

-5-

SCHEDULE  2

Program Execution

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Program Fiduciary, Environmental  and Social  Systems

Without  limitation on the  provisions of Article V  of the General  Conditions,  the Borrower
shall  carry  out  the  Program,  or  cause  the  Program  to  be  carried  out,  in  accordance  with
financial  management,  procurement  and  environmental  and  social  management  systems
acceptable  to the  Bank ("Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental  and  Social  Systems")  which
are  designed to  ensure that:

the Loan  proceeds  are used for their intended  purposes, with due  attention to the principles
of economy,  efficiency,  effectiveness,  transparency,  and accountability;  and

the  actual  and  potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  of the  Program  are
identified,  avoided,  minimized,  or  mitigated,  as the  case  may  be, all  through  an  informed
decision-making  process.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Without  limitation on the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, the Borrower  shall carry out
the  Program, or cause  the Program  to be  carried  out, in accordance  with  the provisions  of
the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Other Program Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements

Program  Institutions

Without limitation  on the generality  of Part A of this Section I, the Borrower shall maintain
the following institutional  arrangements  throughout the implementation  of the Program and
as further set out in the  Program  Operations Manual  and, except  as the Bank shall otherwise
agree,  the Borrower  shall  not amend  or waive  any of such arrangements  if, in  the opinion
of the  Bank,  such  amendment  or  waiver may  materially  and  adversely  affect the carrying
out of the  Program or the  achievement  of the  objective  thereof.

DDUT

The  DDUT  shall  be  responsible  for the  monitoring  of day-to-day  implementation  of the
Program,  the  preparation  of the  Program's  annual  progress  reports,  and  consolidation  of
financial  statements,  as  further set  out  in  the  Program  Operations  Manual.  The Borrower
shall  maintain  throughout  the  implementation  of the  Program  the  DDUT  with  staff  and
resources satisfactory  to the Bank.

-6-

2. 

Manual

The  Borrower  shall  adopt  the  Program  Operations  Manual  and  carry  out  the  Program  in
accordance  with the Program  Operations  Manual  and, except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise
agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  amend  or  waive  any  provision  of  said  Manual  if, in  the
opinion of the  Bank,  such  amendment  or  waiver may  materially and  adversely  affect  the
carrying out of the  Program or the  achievement  of the objective  thereof.

3. 

Additional  Program  Implementation  Arrangements

Without  limitation  on the  generality  of Part  A  of this  Section I, the  Borrower  shall  carry
out  the  Action  Plan,  or  cause  the  Action  Plan  to  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
schedule  set out in  the said  Action Plan  in a  manner satisfactory  to the Bank.

Section  II. 

Excluded  Activities

The Borrower  shall ensure  that the Program  excludes  any  activities  which:

A. 

B. 

in the opinion of the Bank, are  likely to have significant adverse  impacts that are  sensitive,
diverse,  or unprecedented  on the  environment  and/or  affected  people;  or

involve  the procurement  of:  (1) works,  estimated  to  cost  USD  50,000,000  equivalent  or
more  per  contract;  (2)  goods,  estimated  to  cost  USD  30,000,000  equivalent  or  more  per
contract;  (3)  non-consulting services,  estimated to cost  USD  20,000,000 equivalent or more
per  contract;  or (4)  consultants'  services,  estimated  to  cost  USD  15,000,000  equivalent or
more  per contract.

Section  III. 

Pro2ram Monitoring, Reporting  and Evaluation; Audits

A. 

Program Reports

The Borrower  shall monitor and evaluate  the progress  of the  Program and prepare  Program
Reports in accordance  with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General  Conditions.  Each
Program  Report  shall cover  the  period  of one  calendar  year,  and  shall be  furnished  to the
Bank not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the end  of the period  covered  by such  report.

B. 

Program Financial Audits

Without  limitation  on the generality  of Section  L.A  of this  Schedule  2  and  Section  5.09  of
the  General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  have  the  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the provisions of Section  5.09 (b)  of the General  Conditions.  Each audit
of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the period  of one  fiscal  year of the  Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall be  furnished  to the Bank not  later
than six (6)  months  after the  end  of such  period.

-7-

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

Verification Protocol

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  verification  missions  at  least  annually,  in  accordance  with
terms of reference  satisfactory  to the Bank, through  the  IGAT  or  independent  verification
agencies  the Bank has  confirmed  in  writing to  be  acceptable,  that,  for  the verification  of
achievement  of DLRs  I through  DLR  7  which  are  set forth  in the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2
of this  Schedule,  and furnish  to the  Bank  not  later than  sixty  (60)  calendar  days  after the
verification  of compliance  of said  DLRs,  a  report  on  the  results  of said  verification  of
compliance  process of such  scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall reasonably  request.

Such  annual  verifications  will  be based  on a  review of the documentation  available  at the
Mol,  at the municipal  level  and during on-site verification missions.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  II  of the General  Conditions, this Section,  and such additional  instructions as the
Bank  may specify  from time to time by  notice to the  Borrower  to: (a)  repay  the Preparation
Advance;  (b)  pay the  Front-end  Fee;  (c)  pay  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar
premium;  and  (d)  finance  the  Program  Expenditures,  on  the  basis  of  the  results
("Disbursement  Linked  Results"  or  "DLRs")  achieved  by  the  Borrower,  as  measured
against  specific  indicators  ("Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or  "DLIs");  all  as  set forth
in the table in  paragraph  2 of this Part A.

The  following  table  specifies  each  category  of withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
the
(including 
Disbursement  Linked  Results  for  each  Category  (as  applicable),  and  the allocation  of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category:

the  Disbursement  Linked 

Indicators  as  applicable) 

("Category"), 

-8-

Disbursement Linked  Result 
(as  applicable) 

Amount  of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in USD)

Category 
(including 
Disbursement 
Linked Indicator as
applicable)
DLI 
(1) 
Strengthened 
and 
monitoring 
(M&E) 
evaluation 
system  for  the  urban 
transport sector

#1:  DLR#1.1: 

Sector-wide  M&E 
needs  have  been identified,  and  a
strengthened  central  computer-
based  M&E  system  has  been
designed  (in  CY16)

DLR#1.2:  Strengthened  M&E 
system  has  been  installed  as  per
and
specified 
tested 
least  3  cities  (in
CY17)

requirements, 

in  at 

DLR#1.3:  Strengthened  M&E 
system  has been  implemented  in
at least  3  additional  cities,  review
of  the  system  has  been  carried
out,  and  required  changes  and
future  needs  have been  identified
(in  CY18)

DLR#1.4:  Revised  M&E  system 
has  been  implemented  in  at  least
3 additional  cities (in  CY19)

DLR#2.2:  The  Urban  Transport 
Fund has  started to assume  its
intended  functions  (in  CY17)

DLR#2.3:  The  Urban  Transport 
Fund has  continued  to  assume its
intended  functions  (in  CY18)

DLR#2.4:  The  Urban  Transport 
Fund  has  continued  to  assume  its
intended  functions  (in  CY19)

DLI 

#2:  DLR#2.1:  The Urban  Transport 
(2) 
Strengthened  Urban  Fund's  institutional  and  financial
Transport  Fund 

arrangements  are  in place  (in
CY16)

(3)  DLI  #3:  Number  DLR#1.1:  1 in  CY16 
of 
Associations 
Urban 
Agglomerations

operational
of

DLR#1.2:  2  in CY17 

DLR#1.3:  3  in CY18 

4,500,000

5,000,000

10,000,000

5,000,000

10,000,000

15,000,000

5,000,000

5,000,000

8,340,000

8,330,000

8,330,000

-9-

DLR#1.4:  3  in CY19 

(4)  DLI  #4:  Number  DLR#1.1:  5  in CY16 
of  urban  mobility
master  plans prepared  DLR#1.2:  6  in CY17 
using 
process 
participatory
approach 

a  DLR#1.3:  6  in CY18 

structured
and 

DLR#1.4:  7  in CY19 

a 

operational

(5)  DLI  #5:  Number  DLR#1.1:  2  in  CY16 
of 
municipally-owned 
urban 
enterprises 

DLR#1.3:  4  in  CY18 

DLR#1.2:  3 in  CY17 

transport

DLR#1.4:  4  in  CY19 

#6:  DLR#1.1:  0  in  CY16 

(6) 
DLI 
Percentage  of Priority
Program  of Corridors  DLR#1.2:  10  in  CY17 
completed  and  open
to traffic 

DLR#1.3:  20  in  CY18 

DLR#1.4:  30  in  CY19 

#7:  DLR#1.1:  0  in CY16 
of
the  DLR#1.2:  30  in  CY17 

supported  DLR#1.3:  60  in CY18 

their  DLR#1.4:  90  in CY19 

in 

DLI 

the  Program
meet 

(7) 
Percentage 
corridors 
Priority  Program  of
Corridors 
under 
that 
Objective 
in
Reduction  of  Urban
Journey
Transport 
Time
(8)  Front-end  Fee  to  Not applicable 
be  paid  pursuant  to
Section  2.03  of  this
in
Agreement 
accordance 
with
Section  2.07(b)  of the
General  Conditions

0.00

15,000,000

7,500,000

0.00

7,500,000

0.00

12,500,000

12,500,000

0.00

0.00

10,000,000

10,000,000

10,000,000

0.00

10,000,000

10,000,000

10,000,000

500,000

-10-

(9)  Interest  Rate  Cap  Not applicable
or Interest Rate Collar
premium  to  be  paid
to  Section
pursuant 
this
of 
2.08(c) 
in
Agreement 
with
accordance 
Section  4.05  of  the
General  Conditions
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

200,000,000

B. 

1 .

2. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, no  withdrawal  shall be  made:

(a) 

(b) 

for purposes  of Section 2.05  of the General  Conditions,  for payments  for Program
Expenditures  made prior to the date  of this Agreement,  except that  withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  USD  50,000,000  may  be  made  for  such
payments  made prior to this date but  on or after June  24,  2014;  and

for  any  DLR under  Categories  (1) through  (7),  until  and  unless  the Borrower  has
furnished  evidence  satisfactory to the Bank that  said DLR has been achieved;  such
evidence  to  be verified  in accordance  with the  terms  of the  Verification  Protocol.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 1(b)  of this Section, the Borrower may withdraw:
(i)  an amount not to exceed USD  50,000,000  as an advance;  provided, however, that  if any
of the DLRs  set forth  in the table  in  Part  A.2  of this  Section in the opinion of the Bank,  is
not  achieved  (or only  partially  achieved)  by  the  Closing  Date,  the Borrower  shall  refund
such advance  or portion  of such advance  as determined  by  the Bank to the Bank promptly
upon  notice thereof by  the Bank.  Except  as otherwise  agreed  with the  Borrower, the  Bank
shall  cancel  the  amount  so  refunded.  Any  further  withdrawals  requested  as  an  advance
under  any Category  shall be  permitted  only  on such terms  and  conditions  as the Bank shall
specify by notice  to the Borrower.

3. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part B.1(b)  of this Section:

(a) 

Subject to the provisions  of Part  B.3(b)  of this  Section, if the Bank  is satisfied that
any  DLR (other  than forDLI#1  and  DLI #2)  has been  partially  achieved,  provided
that, at a minimum, the Baseline  Value  for said DLR has been  exceeded, the Bank
may  authorize  the  withdrawal  of  a  portion  of the  amount  of the  unwithdrawn
proceeds  of the Loan then allocated to said  DLR in accordance  with the following
formula:

Loan amount allocated to the DLI divided by  the  number (or percentage points for
DLI#6 and DLI#7) by  which the DLI end-line value for CY1 9 exceeds the Baseline
Value  multiplied  by  the number  (or percentage points for DLI#6 and DLI#7) by
which the actual result achieved exceeds the results achieved in the previous year.

-11-

(b) 

if the  Bank  is not satisfied that  any of the DLRs have  been achieved  by the date  by
which the said DLR  is set to be  achieved,  or  if a DLR has  been exceeded,  the  Bank
may,  at  any  time,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,  decide,  in  its  sole  discretion,  to:
(i)  authorize  the  withdrawal  of such  amounts  to be  calculated  in  accordance  with
the formula  set out in the  Section IV.B.3(a) immediately  above up to the maximum
unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  the  applicable  Category
which, in the opinion  of the Bank, corresponds  to the  extent of achievement of said
DLR;  (ii)  reallocate  all  or a  portion  of the proceeds  of the  Loan then  allocated  to
said DLR to any  other DLR, or vice versa within the  limits of such  DLI;  and/or (c)
cancel  all or  a  portion  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan then  allocated  to  said  DLR, if
applicable.

The Closing  Date  is June  30,  2020.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding the  foregoing  provisions of this Section  IV, if at any time  after the Closing
Date  the  Borrower  has  failed  to  provide  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the
Withdrawn  Loan Balance  does not  exceed the  total  amount of Program  Expenditures  paid
by the  Borrower,  exclusive  of any  such expenditures  financed  by any  other financier  or by
the  Bank  or  the  Association  under  any  other  loan,  credit  or  grant,  the  Borrower  shall,
promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the  Bank  such  excess  amount  of  the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance.  The  Bank  shall  cancel  the refunded  amount  of the  Withdrawn
Loan Balance.

-12-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The following table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates of the  Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have been fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a) Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)  the  Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each January  15  and  July 15

Beginning January  15,  2021 
through July  15,  2040

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

2.50%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as of the first  Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

(a) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  Borrower  shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as
of such date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the first  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling after the  date  of such withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount  of each such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in paragraph  I  of this Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates falling  on  or  after such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted, as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months  prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on any  Principal  Payment Date,  be treated  as withdrawn  and  outstanding
on the  second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment Date  following the  date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank adopts  a due  date  billing system  under which  invoices are  issued on

-13-

or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  I and 2  of this Schedule,  upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance to an Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date occurring  during the Conversion Period, shall be  determined by the Bank  by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange  rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions of this Schedule  shall apply separately  to the amount denominated  in each  Loan
Currency,  so as to  produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

-14-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Action  Plan" means the  Borrower's plan  dated October 23,  2015 and referred  to in  Section
I.C.3  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  as  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the
agreement  of the  Bank.

the  Bank's  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Program-for-Results  Financing,"  dated  February  1,
2012, and  revised  July  10,  2015.

"Associations  of  Urban  Agglomerations"  means  the  Etablissements de  Coopiration
Intercommunale, institutional  arrangements  for inter-municipal  cooperation  as  introduced
in 2008  and  governed  by  Law No.113.14  (loi organique relative aux communes), or  any
other similar  arrangement  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.

"Baseline  Value"  means,  for  the  purpose  of  Section  IV.B.3  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  the  following  baseline  results  as  measured  against  the  DLI  for  each  DLR:
(i)  'Current  M&E  system  is  paper-based  and  limited  in  scope  and  depth'  for DLI  #1;  (ii)
'The  Urban  Transport  Fund's  institutional  and financial  arrangements  are  not yet fully  in
place'  for DLI  #2;  (iii)  0 for DLI #3;  (iv)  3  for DLI  #4;  (v)  2  for DLI  #5;  (vi)  0 for DLI  #6;
and (vii)  0 for DLI #7.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2 to this
Agreement.

"CY"  means  the calendar year  starting on  January  I and ending  on  December  31  of each
year.

"DDUT"  means  Division des Deplacements Urbains et des  Transports, the  Division  of
Urban  Mobility  and  Transport  within  DGCL  at Mol,  or  any  successor thereto satisfactory
to the Bank.

"DGCL" means the Direction Gnerale des Collectivitis Locales, the General  Directorate
of Local  Governements  within Mol.

"Disbursement  Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  in  respect  of  a  given  Category,  the
indicator  related to said  Category  as set  forth  in  the  table in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2
to this Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked Result" or  "DLR"  means  in respect of a given  Category, the result
under  said  Category  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  on the  basis of the achievement  of which, the  amount of the Loan allocated  to
said  result  may  be  withdrawn  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of said  Section  IV.  All
quantitative  DLRs  are cumulative.

-15-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

"Eligible  Sub-projects"  means sub-projects  identified in the Priority Programs  of Corridors
determined  eligible  in accordance  with  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Program  Operations
Manual.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012, with  the modifications  set forth  in
Section II  of this  Appendix.

"IGAT" means  Inspection Gendrale de  l'Administration Territoriale, the inspection  unit
within the  Mol.

"Mol"  means  the Borrower's  Ministry  of Interior, or  any  successor thereto.

"Objective  in  Reduction  of  Urban  Transport  Journey  Time"  means  the  objectives  in
reduction  of  urban  transport  journey  time  set  out  in  the  study  underlying  the  Priority
Programs  of Corridors  in  a manner satisfactory  to the Bank  and the Borrower.

"Participating  Cities"  means  the  cities  of  more  than  100,000  inhabitants  determined
eligible in  accordance  with the criteria set forth  in the  Program Operations  Manual.

"Priority  Programs  of  Corridors"  means  the  specific  program  of  subprojects  of urban
transport  corridors to  be  supported  by  Urban  Transport  Fund  Committee  and  adopted  by
the Borrower,  which includes a minimum  of cumulative  length of 20 km  of urban transport
corridors.

"Program  Area"  means  the  Borrower's  regions  of  B6ni  Mellal-Kh6nifra,  Casablanca-
Settat,  Drda-Tafilalet,  F&s-Mekn&s,  Marrakech-Safi,  Oriental,  Rabat-Sald-Kdnitra,  Souss-
Massa  and  Tanger-Tdtouan-Al  Hoce*fma.

"Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental  and  Social  Systems"  means  the  Borrower's  systems
for the  Program  referred  to in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

technical,
"Program  Operations  Manual"  means 
administrative,  environmental,  social  and fiduciary  procedures  applicable  to  the  Program
and the technical  standards  for the implementation of the transport corridors, to be adopted
by the.  Borrower  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

the  manual 

setting 

forth 

the 

"Urban  Transport  Fund"  means the Fonds d'Accompagnement des Reformes du Transport
Routier Urbain et Interurbain, a  special  purpose  account  established pursuant  to the 2007
Budget Law,  as amended  in 2014.

"Verification  Protocol"  means  the  verification  protocol  referenced  in  Section  III.C  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  as set  out in terms of reference  satisfactory  to the Bank.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby  modified as  follows:

-16-

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Wherever  used  throughout the  General  Conditions,  the  term  "the  Project"  is  modified  to
read "the  Program",  the term  "the  Project  Agreement"  is  modified  to  read "the  Program
Agreement",  the  term  "Project  Implementing  Entity"  is  modified  to  read  "the  Program
Implementing  Entity",  the term  "Project  Report"  is  modified to  read  "Program  Report";
and the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  is  modified to read  "Program  Expenditures".
In the Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section names  and Section numbers
are  modified to reflect the amendments  set  forth below.

Section 2.02, Special Commitment by the Bank, is  deleted in its entirety, and the subsequent
Sections  in Article  II  are renumbered  accordingly.
In  Section  2.02  (originally  numbered  as  Section  2.03),  the  heading  "Applications for
Withdrawal or for Special Commitment" is replaced  with  "Applications for Withdrawal",
and the phrase  "or to  request the Bank to enter into a Special  Commitment"  is deleted.
The  section  originally  numbered  as  Section  2.04,  Designated Accounts  is  deleted  in  its
entirety,  and the subsequent  Sections  in Article  II  are renumbered  accordingly.
Paragraph  (a) of Section 2.03 (originally  numbered  as Section  2.05),  Eligible Expenditures
(renamed  "Program  Expenditures"  in  accordance  with paragraph  I  of this  Section  II),  is
modified  to  read:  "(a)  the  payment  is  for  the  financing  of  the  reasonable  cost  of
expenditures  required  for the Program  and to  be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan
in  accordance  with the provisions  of the Legal  Agreements;".
The last  sentence of Section  2.04 (originally  numbered  as Section  2.06),  Financing Taxes,
is  modified to  read: "To that end, if the Bank at any time determines  that the amount  of any
such  Tax  is  excessive,  or that  such Tax  is  discriminatory  or  otherwise  unreasonable,  the
Bank may,  by notice to the Borrower,  exclude  such amount or  such Tax from  the Program
Expenditures  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  as  required  to  ensure
consistency  with  such policy  of the Bank."
Section 2.06  (originally  numbered  as  Section 2.08),  Reallocation, is  modified  to read:
"Notwithstanding any  allocation  of an  amount of the  Loan to a withdrawal  category  under
the Loan Agreement, the Bank may, by  notice to the Borrower, reallocate  any other amount
of the  Loan  to  such  category  if the  Bank  reasonably  determines  at  any  time  that  such
reallocation  is  appropriate  for the purposes  of the Program.

9. 

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at the  rate

(a) 
specified in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower  shall pay  the Bank a commitment charge  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The

-17-

Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement to the respective  dates  on which  amounts are withdrawn  by the Borrower from
the  Loan  Account or  cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually
in arrears  on  each Payment  Date."

Section 7.01,  Cancellation by  the Borrower, is  modified  to read:  "The  Borrower  may, by
notice  to the Bank,  cancel any  amount of the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance."

Paragraph  (d)  of Section  7.03,  Cancellation by  the  Bank, entitled "Misprocurement", is
deleted,  and  subsequent  paragraphs  are  relettered  accordingly.

Section  7.04,  Amounts  Subject to  Special Commitment  not Affected  by  Cancellation or
Suspension by  the Bank, is  deleted  in  its  entirety,  and  subsequent  Sections  in  Article  VII
and references to  such  Sections  are renumbered  accordingly.

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as necessary,  to reflect the modifications  set forth above.

A  new  paragraph  19  is  inserted  with  the  following  definition  of "Commitment  Charge",
and the remaining paragraphs  are  renumbered  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In the renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally  paragraph  48)  of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end  Fee"  is modified by replacing the reference  to Section 3.01  with Section  3.01
(a).

In the  renumbered  paragraph  68 (originally  paragraph  67)  of the Appendix,  the definition
of the term "Loan  Payment"  is  modified to read as  follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to the Legal Agreements  or  these General  Conditions,  including (but  not limited
interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

In the renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the Appendix,  the definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge  are"  after the  word "interest".

Renumbered  paragraph  88  (originally  paragraph  87)  of the  Appendix,  setting  forth  the
definition of "Special  Commitment" is deleted  in its entirety,  and all  subsequent  paragraphs
are renumbered  accordingly.

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

