OFFICIAL
00CUJMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8468-PE

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for the Optimization  of Lima Water and  Sewerage  Systems
Project - Optimizacidn de Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado, Sectorizaci6n,
Rehabilitacidn de Redes y Actualizacidn de Catastro - Area de Influencia Planta
Huachipa - Area de Drenaje Oquendo, Sinchi Roca, Puente Piedra y  Sectores 84, 83,
85 y 212 - Lima)

REPUBLIC  OF PERU

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

joy  Z) 
} 

v 

4s 

,2016

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

35, 2015,  between  the  REPUBLIC  OF  PERU
-14thG 
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an  integral  part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless 

the  context  requires  otherwise, 

terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to  the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  fifty-five  million  United  States
Dollars  (US$55,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 2.07
of  this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan 

in  accordance  with
Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for
purposes  of taking  any  action  required  or  permitted  to  be  taken  pursuant  to  this
Section  is  the  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance  or  the  Borrower's  Director  of
Indebtedness  and  Public  Treasury  or  any  person  whom  any  of  them  shall
designate  in writing.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee
not  later than  60  days  after the  Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter

of one  percent  (0.25%) per annum  on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-

-2-

payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates  are  April  15  and  October  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may at  any time  request any  of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa; or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa; or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the
setting of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the
General  Conditions and  the  Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,
through  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried
out  in accordance  with the  provisions of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that the
Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely,  in  the
opinion  of the  Bank,  the  ability  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform
any  of its obligations  under  the  Project Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the

event  specified in  Section 4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower
and the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

The  updated  Operational  Manual  has  been  adopted  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity.

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  is  legally binding  upon  the Borrower  and  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with  its terms.

5.03.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is  the  date ninety  (90)  days  after the  date  of this  Agreement,  but  in  no
case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the  Loan
which  expire  on July  15,  2016.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

in  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement, 

the  Borrower's
Except  as  provided 
is  its  Ministei  of  Economy  and  Finance,  provided  that  the
Representative 
Borrower's  Director of Indebtedness  and  Public  Treasury  may, by  him or  herself,
represent  the  Borrower  to  sign  amendments  and/or  notices  to  this  Agreement
which  are  considered  of an  administrative  and  non-financial  nature.  The signing
by  such  Director  of an  amendment  and/or  notice  shall  constitute  a  representation
by  the  Borrower  that  any  such  amendment  and/or  notice  is  considered  to  be
administrative  and  non-financial  in nature.

-4-

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Economy and  Finance
Jr. Junin  319
Lima  1, Peri

Facsimile:
(511)  626-9921

6.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
and year first  above  written.

Lq" 

- P6A0 

,as 

of  the  day

REPUBLIC  OF P  U

By

Authriz 

presentative

Name 

14LON&~O  SeCbu9A  q&&(

Title 

qNusT5A  af  Fcojoy 

4  FN  C

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

Name 

Title 

_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 
Authorized  Representati4eI

_ 

_ 

_ 

_

ALi-V-Q  ~ 1 ~*'Z2

WC "TZA 

-) t6 n?- 

&

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project 

is  to  improve  the  efficiency,  continuity  and

reliability  of water supply  and  sanitation  services  in the Northern  Service  Area of Lima.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part  1.  Rehabilitation  of  Water  and  Sewerage  Networks  in  the  Northern  Service

Area  of Lima

Rehabilitation  of water  and  sewerage  networks  in  the  Second  Northern  Service
Area of Lima.

Improvement  of  the  management  of  the  rehabilitated  networks  referred  to  in
paragraph  A  above  and  reduction of water  losses  through:  (i)  the rehabilitation  of
water  reservoirs  (concrete  storage  tanks)  to  increase  storage  capacity  and
pressure  stabilization;  (ii)  the  replacement  of house  connections  and  installation
of  domestic  water  meters;  and  (iii)  the  installation  of  bulk  water  meters  and
valves to allow  sectorization.

Carrying  out  of  social  interventions  complementing  the  physical  investments
referred  to  in  paragraph  A  above,  to  facilitate  the  transition  to  a  full  pressure,
continuous  and  metered  service,  including,  inter alia, the  provision  of guidance
to  manage  consumption,  in  particular  through  the  use  of  in-house  water  saving
equipment.

Part 2.  Improvement  of SEDAPAL's  Efficiency

to
Carrying  out  of  studies  and  consultancies 
SEDAPAL's  management  to  improve  the  company's  efficiency,  all  focusing  on  the
following  areas:

to  provide  decision-making 

tools 

Provision  of support  for the  implementation  of the  GIS,  including:  (i)  supporting
an  evaluation  of  the  cadaster  to  determine  priority  zones  for  cadastre  updating
and  the  identification  of  a  process  for  regular  cadastre  updating;  and  (ii)
supporting  the  training  and  institutional  arrangements  needed  within  SEDAPAL
to  maximize  the potential  of the GIS.

Provision  of support  for  the  consolidation  of  SEDAPAL's  supervisory  control
including  supporting
and  data  acquisition 
SEDAPAL  in  the  preparation  of  a  supervisory  control  and  data  acquisition
master  investment  plan  to  ensure  the  compatibility  of  current  and  future
strategies.

technology  strategy, 

information 

A. 

B. 

C. 

A. 

B. 

-6-

C. 

D. 

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

Provision  of  support  for  the  development  of  a  new  organizational  model  for
SEDAPAL,  including  the  preparation  of  a  strategic  vision  for  SEDAPAL  over
technologies,
the  medium  and 
aligning  human  resources  management  with  modem  practices,  exploring  options
for  sustainable  financing  of  capital  investments  and  rearranging  institutional
structure  along functional  lines.

incorporating  new  management 

long-term, 

Preparation  of a  strategy  to efficiently  meet user demand  for water  and  sanitation
services,  including:  (i)  an  evaluation  of the  exogenous  and  endogenous  factors
that  affect  demand  for  water  supply  and  sanitation  services;  (ii) an  estimation  of
(iii)
future  demand 
identification  of priority  actions to  meet such  demand  as efficiently  as  possible.

trends  backed  by  adequate  sensitivity  analysis;  and 

Part 3.  Project Management

Provision  of support to  SEDAPAL  for  Project  management,  including,  inter alia:

Provision  of financing  for the  additional  staff required  for Project  management  to
establish  a monitoring  and evaluation  system  and  to undertake  financial,  physical
and  procurement  audits  and/or reviews.

to  strengthen 
Provision  of  individual  consultancies 
procurement,  financial  management  and  communication.

the  Project 

team  on

Provision  of training  for  strategic  planning  and  selection  of technical  options  to
allow full  compliance  with  SEDAPAL's  investment plans.

Provision  of  support  to  document  the  Project's  processes  and  results  and  to
mainstream  the  lessons  learned and  the good  practices.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Subsidiary Agreement

A. 

I. 

2. 

A. 

B. 

To facilitate  the carrying  out of the Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make the  proceeds
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  under  a  subsidiary
agreement  between 
Implementing  Entity
("Subsidiary  Agreement"),  which  shall  include,  inter alia, the  obligation  of the
Project  Implementing  Entity to  carry  out the Project  in accordance  with the  terms
of this Agreement  and  the Project  Agreement.

the  Borrower  and 

the  Project 

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,
terminate,  amend,  abrogate,  waive or  fail to enforce  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or
any  of its  provisions,  if, in  the  opinion  of both  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  any
such  assignment,  termination,  amendment,  abrogation,  waiver  or  failure  to
enforce  may  materially  and adversely  affect the  implementation  of the  Project.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

C. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower  through  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  ensure  that  the  Project
is  carried  out 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption
Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  take any  actions necessary  to  assist,  within  the  competencies
of  each  relevant  entity,  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  complying  with  its
obligations  under  Section  I.C.  of the Schedule  to  the Project Agreement.

Section  II. 

Financial Management, Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower,  through  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  shall  maintain  a
financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09
of the  General  Conditions.

The  Borrower, through  the  Project Implementing  Entity shall  prepare  and furnish
to  the  Bank,  as part  of the Project  Report,  not later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after
the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the
Project  covering  the semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

C. 

A. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

-8-

The  Borrower,  through  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  have  its  Financial
Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b) of the
General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the
period  of  one  fiscal  year  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity.  The  audited
Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank not  later
than  six  (6)  months  after the  end  of such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

4. 

Special  Provisions.

Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  Non-
Consultant  Services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set
forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I of  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with  the
provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines and  with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of  review  by  the  Bank  of particular
in  the  Procurement
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Guidelines,  or Consultant Guidelines,  as the  case may  be.

(a) 

In addition  and  without  limitation  or  restriction to  any other  provision  set
forth  in  this  Section  or  the  Procurement  Guidelines,  the  following
provisions  shall  govern  all  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  Non-
Consultant  Services  with  National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures
under  Section  III.  B.2 (a)  of this Schedule:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Foreign  bidders shall  not be required  to  be  locally registered  as  a
condition  of participation  in the  selection  process.

No  reference  value  shall  be  required  for  publication 
bidding documents  or used  for the  purpose of evaluation.

in  the

Award  of  contracts  shall  be  based  exclusively  on  price  and,
whenever  appropriate,  shall  take  into account  factors  that can  be
quantified  objectively,  and  the  procedure  for  such  quantification
shall be disclosed  in the  invitation  to bid.

-9-

(iv) 

in  National
Foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  participate 
Competitive  Bidding  without  restriction  and  shall  not  be  subject
to  any  unjustified  requirement  which  will  affect  their  ability  to
bid  such  as,  but  not  limited  to,  the  requirement  to  authenticate
their  bidding  documents  or  any  documentation  related  to  such
bidding documents  with  either Peruvian  Consulates,  the Ministry
of Foreign  Affairs,  or  any  Peruvian  authorities  as  a  prerequisite
of bidding.

(v) 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to
utilize  standard  bidding documents  satisfactory to the  Bank.

(b) 

In addition  and  without  limitation  or restriction  to  any  provision  set  forth
in  this  Section  or  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  the  following  provisions
shall govern  all  employment  of consultants  referred to  in Section  III.C of
this  Schedule:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

Foreign  consultants  shall  not be  required  to  be  locally  registered
as a  condition  of participation  in the  selection  process.

Foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  authenticate  any
in  the  selection
documentation  related  to  their  participation 
process  with  Peruvian  Consulates,  the  Ministry  of  Foreign
Affairs,  or  any  Peruvian  authorities  as  a  condition  of
participation  in said  selection  process.

The Borrower  shall  cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity to  use
standard  requests  for  proposals  and  standard  evaluation  formats,
all  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Foreign  consultants,  either  individuals  or  firms,  shall  not  be
required  to  pay  fees  to  the  Peruvian  Consultants'  Association
that are  different  from  those  required  for Peruvian  consultants.

No  consultant,  hired  for  the  Project,  at  the  time  he  or  she  is
carrying  out  his  or  her  contractual  obligations  as  a  consultant,
may  hold  civil  service  office  or any  other  position  in  any  agency
of the Borrower (including  the  Project  Implementing  Entity),  nor
shall  such  consultant  have  any  right  to  re-entry  into  any  such
office  or  position  upon  the  conclusion  of his  or  her  consulting
services.

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

- 10-

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works,  and  Non-Consultant  Services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consultant
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and
Non-Consultant  Services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under which  such  methods  may  be  used.

Procurement Method

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding

(b)  Shopping

(c)  Direct Contracting

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The  following table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify  the circumstances  under which  such  methods  may  be used.

Procurement Method

(a)  Quality-based  Selection

(b)  Selection  under a  Fixed  Budget

(c)  Least Cost  Selection

(d)  Selection  based  on Consultants'  Qualifications

(e)  Single-source  Selection

(f)  Procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines

for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(g)  Sole  Source  Procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants

- 11 -

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall set  forth  those contracts  which  shall  be subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower,  through  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  may  withdraw  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  II  of  the
General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
shall  specify  by  notice 
the  Borrower 
the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such
instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth 
in  the  table  in
paragraph  2  below.

(including 

to 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Amount  of the Loan  Percentage of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

to be  financed
(exclusive  of Taxes)

A. 

1. 

2. 

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works,

consultants'  services,
Non-Consultant  Services 
and Training  for Part  I of
the  Project

(2)  Goods,  consultants'

services,  Non-Consultant
Services  and  Training  for 
Part 2  of the  Project

(3)  Goods, consultants'

services,  Non-Consultant
Services  and  Training  for 
Part 3 of the  Project

54,000,000 

100%

0 

0

1,000,000 

100%

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

55,000,000

-12-

B. 

1. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

from the  Loan  Account  until  the Bank  has received  payment  in  full  of the
Front-end  Fee;  or

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $11,000,000
equivalent  may  be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or
after  October  27,  2014  (but  in  no  case  more  than  one  year  prior to  the
date  of this Agreement),  for Eligible  Expenditures.

2. 

The  Closing  Date is  December 31,  2019.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
amounts  referred  to 
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

15  and  October 

15,
On  each  April 
beginning  April  15,  2020  through  April 
15,  2038
On  October  15,  2038 

2.63%

2.69%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have not been  fully  withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

first  Principal  Payment  Date, 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the
the 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
withdrawal 
amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the numerator  of which  is
the  original  Installment  Sharp  specified  in the table  in paragraph  1 of this
Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months prior to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating

- 14  -

the  principal  amounts payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are  issued  on  or  after the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph  shall  no 
to  any
withdrawals  made  after the  adoption  of such  billing  system.

longer  apply 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more than  one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each  such  amount.

4. 

5. 

- 15  -

APPENDIX

Section 

. Definitions

I. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Category"  means a category  set forth  in the table in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"EMP"  or  "Environmental  Management  Plan"  means  the  Project  Implementing
Entity's  environmental  management  plan  for  the  Original  Project,  updated  to
include  new  geographical  scope  and  published  in  the  Bank's  InfoShop  on
October  27,  2014  and  in  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  website  on  October
as  such  plan
21,  2014  (http//www.sedapal.com.pe/estudio-impacto-ambiental), 
may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  approval  of the  Bank,  which
includes,  inter alia: (a)  specific  activities,  budget  and  responsibilities  to  ensure
the  implementation  of  measures  to  avoid,  minimize  and/or  mitigate  potential
direct  and  indirect  environmental  impacts  associated  with  the  Project;  and  (b)
procedures  for  screening  any  physical  cultural  resources  in  the  Project  area  and
incorporating  "chance  find"  procedures  in  the  event  that  culturally  significant
resources are  discovered  during  Project  implementation.

"Equipo  de  Proyectos  Especiales"  (formerly  PROMESAL)  means  the  unit
reporting  to  SEDAPAL's  general  manager  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A. I of the
Project  Agreement.

"GDI"  means  Gerencia  de  Desarrollo  e  Investigaci6n,  the  research  and
development  unit  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  or  any  successor  thereto
acceptable  to the  Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in Section  II of this Appendix.

"GIS"  means 
system.

the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  geographical 

information

"Involuntary  Resettlement  Framework"  means the  Project  Implementing  Entity's
involuntary  resettlement  framework  for the  Original  Project  and published  in the

- 16  -

10. 

11. 

12. 

Bank's  InfoShop  and  in  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  website  on  February
16,  2011,  as  such  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
approval  of  the  Bank,  which  includes, 
inter  alia,  specific  guidelines  and
procedures  to  be  followed  in  the  event  that  Resettlement  is  caused  during  Project
implementation.

"Non-Consultant  Services"  means  services  which  are  bid  and  contracted  on  the
basis  of performance  of a  measurable  physical  output,  such  as  drilling,  mapping
and  similar operations.

"Northern  Service  Area  of Lima"  means  the following  districts  of the  Borrower's
northern  area  of  Lima:  Anc6n,  Bellavista, Callao, Carabayllo, Carmen de  la
Legua,  Comas, Independencia, La  Perla, La Punta, Los  Olivos, Puente Piedra,
Rimac, San Martin de Porres, Santa Rosa and Ventanilla.

"Operational  Manual"  means the  manual,  satisfactory  to the  Bank adopted  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  pursuant  to  section  5.01  (b) of this  Agreement  for
the  Original  Project,  and  updated  on  November  12,  2014.  Said  manual  shall
contain  norms  and  procedures  for  Project  implementation  and  supervision,
including:  (a)  the  procedures  and  criteria  to  select  the  specific  investments  under
the  Project,  including  the  methodology  to  be  followed  to  determine  the  exact
proportion  of replacement  and  renovation  of water  and  sewerage  networks  under
the  Project; 
the  financial  management,  disbursement  and  procurement
procedures  to  be  followed  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  during  Project
implementation, 
forms,  standard  bidding
documents  and  the  Procurement  Plan;  (c)  the  terms  of reference,  functions  and
responsibilities  of  the  staff  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  charge  of
Project  coordination,  management  and  monitoring;  (d)  norms  and  procedures
related  to  engineering,  communication,  reporting  and  administrative  matters;  (e)
Project  monitoring  and  results  indicators;  (f)  the  Environmental  Management
Plan;  and  (g)  the  Involuntary  Resettlement  Framework.

including  standard  disbursement 

(b) 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the 
Optimization  of  Lima  Water  and  Sewerage  Systems  Project  between 
Borrower  and the  Bank,  dated July 22,  2011  (Loan  8025-PE),  as amended.

in  support  of  the
the

loan  agreement 

"Original  Project"  means  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1 to  the  Original
Loan  Agreement,  as amended  pursuant  to this  Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  October  17,  2014  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.16  of  the  Procurement

- 17-

Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.24  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same shall  be
updated from time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  or  "SEDAPAL"  means Servicio de Agua Potable
y  Alcantarillado de  Lima,  a  State-owned  private  enterprise,  established  as  a
Sociedad An6nima, for the purposes  of providing  water  and  sanitation  services  in
the  areas  of Lima,  Callao and  ascribed  jurisdictions,  pursuant  to, and  governed
by, the  Project Implementing  Entity's  Legislation.

the  following: 

Implementing  Entity's  Legislation"  means 

(a)  the
"Project 
Borrower's  Legislative  Decree  No.  150  dated  June  12,  1981  published  in  the
Borrower's  official  gazette  (El  Peruano) on  June  15,  1981,  which  establishes
SEDAPAL;  (b)  the  bylaws  of SEDAPAL  approved  by  the  Borrower's  Supreme
Decree  (Decreto  Supremo)  No.  048-81-VI  dated  December  15,  1981  and
published  in the  Borrower's official  gazette  (El Peruano) on December 20,  1981;
together  with  SEDAPAL's  Board  of  Directors  resolutions  No.  018-005-98  of
March  20,  1998  and  the  general  shareholders  meeting  dated  July  3,  1998;  (c)
Corporations  General  Law  No.  26887  of November  19,  1997  and  published  in
the  Borrower's  official  gazette  (El  Peruano) on  December  9,  1997;  (d)  the
Borrower's  Sanitation  Services  Law (Ley  General de Servicios de Saneamiento),
No.  26338,  dated  July  15,  1994  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette
(El Peruano) on July 24,  1994, as  amended by:  (i) Law  No. 28696,  dated  March
21,  2006  and  published  in the  Borrower's  official  gazette  (El Peruano) on March
22,  2006;  and  (ii)  Law  No.  28870,  dated  July  19,  2006  and  published  in  the
Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on  August  12,  2006;  (e)  the  sole  text  from  the
Regulations  to  the  Borrower's  Sanitation  Services  Law,  dated  November  29,
2005  approved  by  the  Borrower's  Supreme  Decree  (Decreto Supremo) No.  023-
2005-VIVIENDA,  published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette  (El  Peruano)  on
December  1, 2005;  and  (f)  all  legal  instruments  applicable  to  state  corporations
and  water and  sanitation  entities  in  the Borrower's  territory.
"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the
Project,  which taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have  their:  (i) standard  of living
adversely  affected;  or  (ii)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or permanently;  or  (iii)  access  to  productive
temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (iv)  business,
assets  adversely  affected, 
occupation,  work or place  of residence  or habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily
or permanently.
"Second  Northern  Service  Area  of  Lima"  means  the  following  districts  of the
Borrower's  northern  area  of  Lima:  Comas,  Carabayllo,  Ventanilla,  Puente
Piedra, Callao, San Martin de Porres and Los Olivos.

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

- 18-

21. 

22. 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  Convenio  de  Traspaso  de  Recursos,  the
agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to
which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to  the Project
Implementing  Entity.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of: 
(i)  training  materials  and  rental  of
training  facilities  and  equipment;  (ii) tuition  fees,  travel  and per-diem of trainers
and  trainees;  and  (iii)  any  other  expenses  related  to  training  (including  study
tours  and workshops)  to be  carried  out  under  the Project.

Section II. 

Modifications  to the  General Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are hereby  modified as  follows:

1 .

In the  Table  of  Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers  are  modified  to  reflect  the  modifications  set  forth  in  the  paragraphs
below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
the  rate specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment  Charge shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty
days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective  dates  on  which
amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.
The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually 
in  arrears  on  each
Payment  Date."

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

- 19  -

5. 

6. 

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section 3.01  (a).
In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but  not  limited  to)  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the
Front-end  Fee,  the  Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if
any),  any  prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early
termination  of  a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any
premium  payable  upon  the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate
Collar,  and  any Unwinding Amount  payable  by the Borrower."
In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is modified  by deleting  the word  "is"  and  inserting
the  words "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after the  word "interest".

