OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8537-UA

Loan Agreement

(Second  Programmatic  Financial  Sector  Development  Policy Loan)

between

UKRAINE

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  Siee ember L6,2015

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8537-UA

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  '*lembeV  36, 2015,  entered  into between  UKRAINE  ("Borrower")
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank")  for the purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the Program  (as  defined  in
the  Appendix to  this  Agreement).  The  Bank  has decided  to  provide  this  financing  on the
basis,  inter alia, of (a)  the actions  which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and  which  are  described  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement,  and  (b)  the
Borrower's  maintenance of an  adequate macroeconomic  policy framework.  The  Borrower
and  the Bank therefore  hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General Conditions (as  defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Any amendment  to this  Agreement  shall  be  executed  by  agreement  of the  parties
hereto  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  10.02  of  the  General
Conditions.  Such  amendment shall  become  effective as  set forth  in the  amending
agreement.

1.03.  Unless the context  requires otherwise, the capitalized  terms used in this Agreement
have the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix
to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on  the  terms and  conditions set  forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of five  hundred  million  United  States
Dollars  ($500,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through a Currency  Conversion in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section 2.08
of this  Agreement ("Loan").

2.02.  The Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan  in support  of the Program

in  accordance  with  Section  II  of Schedule  I to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

2.04 

2.05. 

The Front-end  Fee payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to one  quarter of one
percent  (0.25%) of the Loan  amount.

The Commitment Charge payable  by  the Borrower  shall  be equal to one quarter  of
one  percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that upon  a Conversion  of all or any  portion  of the  principal amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower during the  Conversion  Period on

-2-

such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any
amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall instead  be calculated  as provided  in Section 3.02 (e) of the General
Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment Dates  are February  15  and August  15 in each year.
2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule  set forth in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The Borrower  may  at any time  request any  of the following  Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in order  to facilitate  prudent debt  management:
(i)  a change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A) all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to a Fixed  Rate, or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a  Variable Rate  based on a  Fixed  Reference  Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all  of the  principal amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the setting of
limits  on the  Variable Rate or the Reference  Rate applicable  to all or any
portion of the principal amount  of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on the
Variable  Rate  or  the Reference  Rate.
Any  conversion  requested pursuant to  paragraph  (a) of this Section that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be considered  a "Conversion",  as defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the General  Conditions and of the  Conversion
Guidelines.
Promptly following the Execution  Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the premium  be
paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay to  itself the amounts
required  to pay  any premium  payable in accordance  with Section  4.05 (c)
of the General Conditions  up to the amount allocated  from time to time for
the  purpose in the table in Section 1l  of Schedule I  to this  Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as such pursuant  to paragraph  5 of Section II  of the Appendix  to this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall

-3-

promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of this
Article  II as  the Bank  may,  from  time  to  time, reasonably  request.

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment to the Program and  its implementation.  To
this end,  and further to  Section 5.08  of the  General Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower and the Bank  shall  from  time to time, at  the request  of either
the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
party,  exchange  views  on 
framework  and  the  progress  achieved  in carrying  out the Program;

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section,  the  Borrower shall  promptly  inform  the Bank  of any situation  that
would  have the effect of materially  reversing  the objectives  of the Program
or  any  action  taken  under the  Program  including  any  action  specified  in
Section  I of Schedule  I to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  a
situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a
significant  part  of it, will  be carried  out.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that the
event  specified  in  Section 4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a
period  of thirty  (30)  days  after notice  of the  event  has been  given  by  the  Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely  that
the  Bank  is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  carrying out
the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
12/2  Hrushevsky  St.
Kyiv,  01008
Ukraine

6.03.  The Bank's  Address is:

Facsimile:

(380-44)  425-90-26
(380-44)  277-54-82

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Kiev,  Ukraine, as  of the day  and year first above written.

-5-

UKRAINE

By

AuthorizedRepresentative

Name:  QOTlx 

GQsq5

Title:J4 

1(;et-tv 

10dne-Q9

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized Representative

Name: 

0minon  PCOl

Title:  _(__ 

t______

beaus  CAkrdo.

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  1. 

Actions  under the Proeram

The actions taken  by  the  Borrower under  the Program  include  the following:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

The Borrower  has strengthened  the DGF's  financial  capacity  for  bank resolution
by  establishing a  back-up  funding  provision  to  DGF  from the  Borrower,  through
enactment  of Law of Ukraine  #80-VIII  "On  the  State  Budget of Ukraine  of Year
2015"  dated December 28,  2014, (Official  Gazette Golos Ukrainy #254  published
on  December 31,  2014);  and adoption  of the Cabinet of Ministers  Resolution #156
"On  Provisioning the  Loan  to the  Individual Deposit Guarantee  Fund"  dated April
4,2015.

The Borrower has enabled DGF to  increase the speed of meeting its  obligations to
insured  depositors,  through  enactment  of  Law  of  Ukraine  #629-VIII  "On
Amendments  to  Some Legislative  Acts of Ukraine  in  Respect of the Improvement
of  the  Individual  Deposit  Guarantee  System  and  the  Resolution  of  Insolvent
Banks"  dated  July  16,  2015 (Official  Gazette  Golos Ukrainy #146  published  on
August  11,  2015).

The  Borrower  has  increased  the  efficiency  of the  asset  management  function  in
DGF  through:  (a)  enactment  of Law  of Ukraine  #629-VIII  "On  Amendments  to
Some  Legislative Acts of Ukraine  in Respect of the Improvement of the Individual
Deposit  Guarantee  System  and the  Resolution  of Insolvent Banks"  dated July  16,
2015  (Official  Gazette  Golos Ukrainy #146  published  on  August  11,  2015);  and
(b)  adoption  by  the  DGF  Executive  Board  of Decisions  #145/15  dated  June  30,
2015,  #196/15  dated August  17,  2015,  and #198/15  dated  August  18,  2015.

The  Borrower  has:  (a)  certified  the  recapitalization  of  13  out  of the  35  Largest
Banks  in  the  amounts  indicated  by  the  independent  Diagnostic  Studies;  and
certified  (b)(i)  that  5  out  of the  35  Largest  Banks were  unable  to be  recapitalized
in  the  amount  indicated  by  independent  Diagnostic  Studies,  and  (ii)  that  such
identified  banks  were  transferred  to  the  DGF  for  resolution,  all through  adoption
of NBU  Decision  #429  dated  July  3,  2015,  "On  Progress  of  Implementing
Activities  on Capitalization  Based  on the Results  of the Diagnostic  Studies".
NBU  has  initiated  updated  diagnostic  studies  for the  20  Largest Banks,  based  on
acceptable  terms  of reference,  through  issuance  of NBU  Board  Decision  #260,
dated  April  15,  2015,  "On  Implementation  of the Diagnostic  Studies  of Banks".

The Borrower has  established  the legal  mechanism for state  participation  in  bank
recapitalization,  through  enactment  of Law  of Ukraine  #78-VIII,  "On  Measures  to
Promote  the  Capitalization  and  Restructuring  of Banks",  dated  December  28,
2014,  (Official  Gazette Golos Ukrainy #252-V  published on  December  30,  2014)
and  Law  of Ukraine  #629-VIII  "On  Amendments  to  Some  Legislative  Acts  of

-7-

Ukraine  in  Respect  of the  Improvement  of the  Individual  Deposit  Guarantee
System  and  the  Resolution  of  Insolvent  Banks"  dated  July  16,  2015,  (Official
Gazette  Golos Ukrainy  #146  published on  August  I1,  2015).

The  Borrower has strengthened  requirements  for identifying and  reporting related
party  lending  and  has  increased  the  NBU's  powers  for  identifying  bank  related
parties, through: (a) enactment  of Law of Ukraine #218-VIllI,  "On  Amendments  to
the  Legislative  Acts  on  the  Liabilities  Associated  with  the  Related  Parties  of
Banks"  dated  March  2,  2015,  (Official Gazette  Golos  Ukrainy #42  published  on
March  7, 2015);  (b) adoption  by  NBU  of NBU  Regulation  #312, dated  May  12,
2015,  "On  Amendments to  the Instruction on Regulation  of Banks'  Operations  in
Ukraine";  (c) adoption  by  NBU  of NBU  Regulation  #315,  dated  May  12,  2015,
"On  Approval  of the  Definition of "bank  related parties"; (d)  adoption  by  NBU  of
NBU  Regulation  #328,  dated  May  21.  2015,  "On  Procedures  for  Reporting the
Bank Ownership  Structure";  and (e)  adoption  by  NBU of NBU  Regulation  #357,
dated June 4,  2015,  "On  Amendments  to the Regulation  on Bank  Licensing".

NBU  has  initiated a  review  of banks'  related  party  lending,  based on  acceptable
terms  of references,  through  adoption  of NBU  Board  Decision  #314,  dated  May
12,  2015,  "On  Measures  aimed at  Bringing Banks'  Asset  Operations with Related
Parties in Compliance with  the Regulatory Requirements".

The  Borrower  has  established  a high-level  Financial  Stability  Council,  through
enactment of Presidential Decree #170/2015,  dated March 24,2015, "On Financial
Stability Council."

issued  regulatory  and  supervisory  requirements  for  Systemically-
NBU  has 
important  Banks, through adoption ofNBU Regulation #312, dated May  12,2015,
"On  Amendments  to  the  Instruction  on  Regulation  of Banks'  Operations  in
Ukraine".

Section  1L 

Availability of Loan  Proceeds

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as the  Bank
may specify  by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan Amounts.  The Loan  (except for amounts required to pay the
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the
amounts  of the Loan  to  this end  is set  out in the  table below:

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

A. 

B. 

Allocations 

(1) Single Withdrawal 
Tranche

(2)  Front-end Fee 

(3)  Amount due  pursuant 
to  Section 2.08(c) of this
Agreement

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

-8-

Amount  of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)

498,750,000

1,250,000

0

500 00 00

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.

1. 

No withdrawal  shall be made of the Single  Withdrawal Tranche  unless the
Bank is satisfied  (a) with the  Program being carried  out by the Borrower,
and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

D. 

Deposits  of Loan  Amounts.  Except  as the  Bank  may otherwise  agree:

2. 

I. 

all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account designated  by  the Borrower  and acceptable  to the  Bank; and
the Borrower  shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account,  an equivalent  amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget  management  system, in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.
Excluded  Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes  that the proceeds of the  Loan
shall  not be  used to finance  Excluded Expenditures.  If the  Bank determines  at any
time  that  an  amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a payment  for  an  Excluded
Expenditure,  the Borrower  shall,  promptly upon  notice  from the  Bank, refund  an
amount equal to  the  amount of such  payment  to the  Bank.  Amounts refunded  to
the Bank upon  such request shall be cancelled.

E. 

F. 

Closing Date.  The  Closing Date  is  June 30, 2016.

-9-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

The  following table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal Payment  Date, the principal  amount of the  Loan
repayable  by the Borrower on each Principal  Payment Date  shall be  determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date;  by (b)  the Installment  Share for each  Principal  Payment  Date, such
repayable  amount  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any  amounts referred  to
in  paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to  which a Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal  Payment Date 

On each  February] 5  and August  15

Beginning February  15,  2022 
through  February  15,  2032

On  August  15,  2032 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

4.55%

4.45%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have not  been  fully  withdrawn  as of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan  have been  withdrawn as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined  by the Bank by multiplying  the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date, such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any
amounts referred  to in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn within  two calendar  months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as

-10-

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal  and shall  be  repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after
the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable on any  Principal  Payment  Date occurring  during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to the Conversion  by either:  (i) the exchange  rate
that  reflects  the amounts  of principal  in  the Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the Currency Hedge  Transaction  relating to  the Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component of the Screen Rate.
If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in more  than  one Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this Schedule  shall  apply separately  to  the  amount denominated
in each  Loan Currency,  so as to produce a separate amortization  schedule for each
such amount.

4. 

5. 

Section I.  Definitions

APPENDIX

"DGF" or  "Deposit  Guarantee  Fund"  means  the  Borrower's  Deposit  Guarantee
Fund established  and operating  pursuant to Law of Ukraine "On  Individual  Deposit
Guarantee  System"  #4452-VI  of  February  23,  2012  (Official  Gazette  "Golos
Ukrainy"  #51  published  on  March  21,  2012"),  as  amended  by  Law  of Ukraine
#629-VIII  "On  Amendments  to Some  Legislative  Acts of Ukraine  in  Respect of
the  Improvement  of the  Individual  Deposit Guarantee  System  and the  Resolution
of Insolvent  Banks"  dated  July  16,  2015  (Official  Gazette  Golos  Ukrainy  #146
published  on August  11,  2015).

2. 

"Diagnostic  Studies"  means  the asset quality  review  conducted  based  on  the  data
as ofend-December  2013  and on the methodology defined in NBU  Board Decision
#272,  dated May  12,  2014, which  review  results  were  adopted by NBU  Decisions
#588/BT  dated  August  18,  2014, and #790/BT  dated December  4, 2014.

3. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means  any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to finance  under another  loan,  credit,
or grant;

for goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or sub-groups  of the  Standard
International  Trade Classification,  Revision  3 (SITC,  Rev.3), published by
the  United  Nations  in Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)
(the  SITC),  or any  successor groups  or subgroups  under  future  revisions
to the SITC,  as designated  by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group 

Sub-group 

Description of Item

112 

121 

122 

525 

Alcoholic beverages

Tobacco,  un-
manufactured,  tobacco
refuse

Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)

Radioactive  and
associated  materials

-12-

Sub-group 

Description of Item

Group 

667 

718 

718.7 

728.43 

897.3 

728 

897 

971 

Pearls,  precious  and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked or worked

Nuclear reactors,  and parts
thereof;  fuel  elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated,  for nuclear
reactors

Tobacco processing
machinery

Jewelry  of gold, silver or
platinum  group metals
(except  watches and
watch  cases) and
goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)

Gold,  non-monetary
(excluding  gold ores and
concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;
for  environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the  manufacture,  use  or import of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
agreements  to which the  Borrower  is a party);
on account of any payment  prohibited by  a  decision of the United Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations; and
with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,
collusive  or coercive  practices were  engaged  in by  representatives  of the
Borrower or other  recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action
satisfactory  to the  Bank to address such practices  when  they  occur.
"Financial  Stability  Council"  means  the  financial  stability  council  established
under  Presidential  Decree  #170/2015,  dated  March  24,  2015,  responsible  for

(f) 

4. 

-13-

monitoring  the  country's  financial  stability  and  identifying  potential  risks  to  the
country's  financial  stability  and  possible  remedial  actions  required  if such  risks
materialize.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in  Section  II  of this  Appendix.

"Largest  Banks"  means  the  largest  banks  as  assessed  by  NBU  based  on  banks'
assets.

"NBU" means  the  National Bank of Ukraine, the  Borrower's central  bank.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and policies  designed  to:  (a)
strengthen  the  operational,  financial  and  regulatory  capacity  of  DGF  for  the
resolution  of  insolvent  banks;  (b)  improve  the  solvency  of the  banking  system
through  implementation  of  bank  recapitalization/restructuring  plans  and  timely
enforcement  action;  and  (c)  strengthen  the  legal  and  institutional  framework  to
improve  the  resiliency  and  efficiency  of the  banking  system.  and  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  August  20,  2015,  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the  Program,  and
requesting assistance  from the Bank in support of the Program  during its execution.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table set  forth  in  Part B  of
Section  II  of Schedule  I to  this  Agreement.

"Systemically-important  Banks"  means  banks  which  meet  the  criteria  defining
systemically  important  banks  set forth  in NBU  Regulation  #863  dated  December
25,  2014.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are hereby  modified  as follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth  in the paragraphs below.

The  last  sentence  of paragraph  (a)  of Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections  2.04 (Designated Accounts) and  2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered
accordingly.

4. 

Section  3.0 1. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to  read as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

-14-

The  Borrower shall  pay the Bank a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate specified  in  the Loan  Agreement (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay 

the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on 

the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge shall  accrue  from a date sixty
days after the date ofthe Loan  Agreement to the respective  dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

5. 

6. 

7. 

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution  Generally), and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent
Sections in Article  V are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such pursuant to  paragraph  5  above
and relating to  Use of Goods, Works and Services) is  deleted in its entirety.

Paragraph (c)  of Section  5.06  (renumbered as such  pursuant to paragraph 5  above)
is  modified to  read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures
under the Loan  until two years after  the Closing Date.  The Borrower shall
enable the Bank's representatives  to examine such records."

8. 

Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07  (renumbered  as such pursuant  to paragraph  5 above)
is  modified to read  as  follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The Borrower shall prepare, or cause  to be prepared,  and
... 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a
report  of such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request,  on  the  execution  of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal
Agreements  and the  accomplishment  of the purposes  of the Loan."

9. 

10. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified,  as necessary, to  reflect the modifications  set  forth above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the  remaining  paragraphs
accordingly:

-15-

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan  Agreement  for the  purpose of Section 3.01(b)."

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is  modified  to read  as follows:

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any use to which  the  Loan  is put  in  support
"37. 
of the  Program,  other  than to  finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant to the  Loan
Agreement."

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of the Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted  in  its entirety.

In  paragraph  48  of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end  Fee"  is modified  by
replacing  the reference  to  Section 3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  paragraph  67  of the  Appendix,  the  definition  of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is
modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"67. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited  to) any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, interest,  the Front-
end  Fee,  the Commitment  Charge,  interest at the Default  Interest Rate (if any), any
prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a Conversion  or early  termination of
a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium
payable  upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar, and any  Unwinding Amount  payable  by  the Borrower."

In paragraph  72  of the  Appendix,  the definition  of"Payment  Date"  is  modified  by
deleting the  word  "is"  and inserting the words "and  Commitment Charge are" after
the word  "interest".

The  defined  term  "Project"  in  paragraph  75  of the  Appendix  is  modified  to read
"Program"  and  its  definition  is modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to
"Project"  throughout  these  General  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to
"Program"):

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in

"75. 
support of which  the Loan  is made."

