LOAN  NUMBER  8093-AR

Loan Agreement

(Socio-Economic  Inclusion in Rural  Areas Project)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

("Borrower")  and 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and the Bank hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I-  GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined 
constitute  an integral part of this Agreement.

in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise, 

in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or  in
the Appendix  to this Agreement.

the  capitalized 

terms  used 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  fifty-two  million  five  hundred
thousand  dollars,  ($52,500,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to
time through  a Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Section
2.08  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  I to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with

Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%) of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter

of one  percent  (0.25%) per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
in  Section  3.02  (e)  of  the
Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided 
General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are June  15  and December  15  in each  year.

-2-

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
provisions  of Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

in  accordance  with  the

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower may at  any time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i) a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to;  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or  vice  versa  ;or  (B)
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Reference  Rate and
the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a
Variable  Spread to  a Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting of limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate applicable  to
all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate
Collar on the Variable  Rate or the Reference Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant  to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section  that
is  accepted  by the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a "Conversion",  as  defined
in  the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and  of the  Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the
premium  be  paid  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to
itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium  payable  in  accordance
with  Section  4.05  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions  up  to  the  amount
allocated  from time  to time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

(b) 

(c) 

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  carry  out  Parts  1, 3(a)  and  4  of the  Project  through
MAGyP;  (b)  if applicable,  cause:  (i) the  pertinent Participating  Province to  cause
each  Beneficiary  Community  to  carry  out  the  corresponding  Rural  Investment
the  pertinent  Beneficiary  Community  to  carry  out  the
Subproject;  or  (ii) 
corresponding  Rural  Investment  Subproject  with  the  assistance  of the  MAGyP,
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  corresponding  Rural  Investment
all 

-3 -

Subproject  Agreement;  and (c)  cause each  Producer  Organization  to  carry out the
pertinent  Productive  Alliance  Subproject  with  the  assistance  of MAGyP,  and  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  corresponding  Productive  Alliance
Subproject  Agreement;  all  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  V  of the
General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,
through  MAGyP,  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with
the provisions  of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following, namely,  that
the  Operational  Manual  has  been  duly  adopted  by  the  Borrower,  through
MAGyP.

4.02.  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of the  General  Conditions,  the  Effectiveness
Deadline  is the  date one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after the  Signature  Date,  but
in  no  case  later  than  the  eighteen  (18)  months  after  the  Bank's  approval  of the
Loan  which expire on December 9, 2016.

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is its Minister of Economy  and Public  Finance.

5.02.  The Borrower's Address  is:

Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas  Piiblicas
Hip6lito Yrigoyen  250
C1086 AAB,  Buenos Aires
Argentina

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

121942-AR 

(5411)  4349-8815

MINISTERIO 
DE  ECONOMIA
Baires

-4-

5.03.  The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina,  on  behalf  of the  Bank  on Novmex  43  Zo1,
and on behalf of the  Borrower  on 

rt-Mr 

1 2Q1 r

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

Aut  or*  Representa  ve

INTERNATIONAL  B  K  OR
RECONSTRUCTIO 

DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authoriz 

epresent 

ive

ACUERO  MEyFP  NO  188/15

-5-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The objective  of the  Project  is  to  increase  the  socio-economic  inclusion  of rural
poor (small  producers,  indigenous  peoples,  and  rural  workers)  by:  (a)  strengthening their
organizational,  planning  and  management  capacity  to  achieve  poverty-reduction  goals;
(b)  improving  their  access  to  community  infrastructure  and  services;  and  (c)  piloting  a
new model  for developing  sustainable  access to  markets.

The Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part 1:  Capacity Development

Carrying out of capacity-building  activities  for purposes of increasing the  impact
of  development  actions  on  targeted  rural  groups,  consisting  of:  (a)  the  provision  of
technical  support  to  communities  and  organizations  of  small  producers,  indigenous
peoples  and  rural workers,  through the  carrying  out of activities  aimed  at improving  their
organizational,  planning  and  management  capacity;  and  (b)  the  provision  of technical
support  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of targeted  rural  groups  through  the  preparation  of
studies,  strategies  and  planning  instruments  aimed  at  the  local  level,  all  under  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to the Bank.

Part 2:  Rural Livelihood

Carrying  out  of demand-driven  investments/activities  aimed  at  improving  the
living  conditions  of  the  targeted  poor  rural  communities  and  consisting  of, inter  alia,
small-scale  investments  such  as  the  rehabilitation  or  construction  of  rural  community
infrastructures,  the  provision  of support  aimed  at  improving  agricultural  production,  the
carrying  out  of  food-security  activities  and  natural  resources  management,  and  the
construction  or  improvement of household  water and  sanitation  systems.

Part  3:  Access to Markets

Provision  of  support  for  the  identification,  formulation  and  implementation  of
Productive  Alliances  Subprojects  through:  (a)  the  carrying  out  of  activities  for  the
promotion  and  preparation  of Productive  Alliances  Subprojects,  including,  inter alia: (i)
the  realization  of a  promotional  campaign  targeted  at  potential  Producer  Organizations
and Buyers;  (ii)  the  formulation  of alliance  profiles  reflecting joint expressions  of interest
by  Producer  Organizations  and  potential  Buyers;  (iii)  the  provision  of  support  for  the
process  of evaluating,  ranking  and  approving  Productive  Alliances  Subprojects;  (iv)  the
provision  of training  to  Producer Organizations  on the  design  and  negotiation  of alliance
business  plans which  may eventually result  in Productive  Alliances;  and  (v) the  provision
of support  for the  preparation  of Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreements  and  related
documentation,  all  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (b)  the  carrying  out  of  Productive

-6-

investments/activities 

Alliance-driven 
the
improvement  of the  production  processes  and  production  quality  standards  of  Producer
Organizations)  for  purposes  of developing  sustainable  access  to  markets  for  Producer
Organizations  based on Productive  Alliances.

(such  as  small-scale  civil  works  and 

Part 4:  Project Management

Provision  of  operational  support  to  the  Borrower,  through  UCAR, 

in  the

implementation,  coordination,  administration,  monitoring  and evaluation  of the  Project.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

(a) 

implementation: 

The  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall  operate  and  maintain,  at all  times  during
the  UCAR,  with  a  structure,  functions  and
Project 
responsibilities  adequate  for the  carrying  out  of the  Project,  which  shall  include,
inter alia, the  responsibility  of the  fiduciary  management  of the  Project  at  the
central  level  (which  consists of, inter alia, the approval  of annual work plans and
related  costs,  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  Project,  and  the  oversight  of
procurement  activities  and  compliance  with  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework);  and (b)  within UCAR,  a network  of coordination  units
level,  all  with  a  structure,  functions  and  responsibilities
at  the  provincial 
acceptable  to  the  Bank, which  shall  include,  inter alia, the  responsibility for  day-
to-day technical  implementation  of the  Project  and  the provision  of support  in the
preparation  of Rural Investment  Subprojects.

The  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall  ensure  that  UCAR  is,  at  all  times  during
Project  implementation,  assisted  by  technical  and  administrative  staff,  all  in
numbers  and  with  terms  of  reference,  and  qualifications  and  experience,
acceptable  to the  Bank, as described  in the  Operational  Manual.

The Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall  cause the Participating  Provinces,  through
the  respective  Participation  Agreements,  to  operate  and  maintain,  at  all  times
during  Project  implementation,  provincial  implementation  units  with  functions
and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank and  with  staff  in  numbers  and  with
qualifications  and experience  acceptable  to the Bank.

4. 

(a) 

For  purposes  of assisting the  Borrower  in the  carrying  out of Parts  1 and
3(a)  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  may  enter  into
technical  assistance  agreements  with  one  or  more  Technical  Assistance
and
Entities 
conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (as  these  are  further  detailed  in  the
Operational  Manual).

("Technical  Assistance  Agreements")  under 

terms 

(b) 

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall:  (i)  exercise  its  rights  under  each
Technical  Assistance  Agreement  in such  manner as to  protect the  interest
of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan;
and  (ii)  except  as the  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  not  amend,  terminate,
waive  or  fail to  enforce  the  pertinent Technical  Assistance  Agreement  or
any  rovision thereof.

-8-

5. 

(a) 

(c) 

In  case  of any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of a Technical  Assistance
Agreements  and  those of the  Operational  Manual  and/or this  Agreement,
the  provisions of this Agreement  shall prevail.

For  purposes  of  assisting  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP, 
in  the
managing  of  contracting  and  payment  of  individual  consultants  under
Parts  land  3(a) of the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  may  enter
into  an  agreement  (the  "Contracting  Management  Agreement")  with  an
agency  (the  "Contracting  Management  Entity"),  under  terms  and
conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (as  these  are  further  detailed  in  the
Operational  Manual).

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall:  (i)  exercise  its  rights  under  the
Contracting  Management  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the
interest  of the  Borrower and  the  Bank to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the
Loan;  and  (ii)  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not  amend,
terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce 
the  Contracting  Management
Agreement  or any  provision thereof.

In  case  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  the  Contracting
Management  Agreement  and those  of the  Operational  Manual  and/or this
Agreement,  the  provisions  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

(b) 

(c) 

Manuals

B. 

1 .

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the
Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall:  (a)  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of  the  Operational  Manual  and  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework;  (b)  if applicable,  cause:  (i) the  pertinent  Beneficiary
Community  or  Producer  Organization  (as  the  case  may  be)  to  comply  with  the
pertinent  provisions  of the Operational  Manual  and  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework  (ESMF)  in  connection  with  their  participation  in  the
carrying  out of relevant  Subprojects;  or (ii)  the  pertinent Participating  Province to
cause  the  pertinent  Beneficiary  Community 
to  comply  with  the  pertinent
provisions  of  the  Operational  Manual  and  the  ESMF  in  connection  with  its
participation  in the  carrying  out of the relevant Rural  Investment  Subproject.

2. 

In  case  of  any  conflict  among  the  terms  of  the  Operational  Manual,  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  and 
those  of  this
Agreement,  the terms  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

-9-

Subprojects

D. 

1. 

(a) 

For  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part  2  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through
MAGyP,  shall:

if  applicable,  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any  given  Rural  Investment
Subproject,  transfer,  on a  grant basis,  part of the  proceeds  of the Loan to
either:  (i) the  corresponding  Participating  Province  pursuant  to  the  terms
of an  agreement  (the Participation  Agreement)  to be  entered  between the
Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  and  the  pertinent  Participating  Province,
under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,
inter alia, those  set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  this  Agreement;  or  (ii)  the
corresponding  Beneficiary  Community  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  an
agreement  (the  Rural  Investment  Subproject  Agreement)  to  be  entered
the  pertinent
into  between 
Beneficiary  Community,  under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the
Bank, which  shall  include,  inter alia, those  set forth in  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement

through  MAGyP,  and 

the  Borrower, 

(b) 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Participation
Agreement  and  each  Rural  Investment  Subproject  Agreement  in  such
manner  as  to  protect  the  interest  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.

Except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall
not assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or fail  to enforce  any  Participation
Agreement  and/or  any  Rural  Investment  Subproject  Agreement,  or  any  of their
provisions.

For  the  purposes  of carrying  out  Part 3 (b)  of the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through
MAGyP  shall:

2. 

3. 

(a) 

(b) 

prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any  given  Productive  Alliance  Subproject,
transfer,  on  a  grant  basis,  part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to  the
the  terms  of  an
corresponding  Producer  Organization  pursuant  to 
agreement  (the Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreement),  under terms
and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter alia,
those  set forth in  Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  and

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Productive
Alliance  Subproject  Agreement  in  such  manner  as to protect  the  interest
of the Borrower  and the Bank to accomplish the  purposes  of the  Loan.

4. 

E. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

- 10  -

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall
not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Productive
Alliance  Subproject  Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

Safeguards

Without  limitation  to the provisions  of Section  I.D  of this  Schedule,  and  prior  to
the  carrying  out  of any  given  Subproject,  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall
and,  if  applicable,  shall  cause  the  pertinent  Participating  Province  (under  the
pertinent  Participation  Agreement)  to:  (a)  carry  out  an  environmental/social
screening and/or  an environmental/social  assessment  (as  the  case  may  be)  of the
pertinent  works/activities,  and if provided  for in  the  ESMF,  prepare  and  approve
an  environmental/social  management  plan  or  similar  environmental  or  social
safeguards  instrument,  acceptable  to  the  Bank, for  each  said  works/activities,  all
in  accordance  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework;  and  (b)  immediately  after  said  approval,  implement
and/or  cause 
the  corresponding  Beneficiary  Community  or  Producer
Organization 
(as 
the  case  may  be) 
the  corresponding
environmental/social  management 
plan 
similar  environmental/social
safeguards  instrument) in accordance  with  its terms.

implement 

(or 

to 

to 

Without  limitation  to  the  pertinent  provisions  of this  Agreement,  and  if, as  a
result  of the  definition  of the  zone  of impact  in  respect  of any  given  Subproject
and/or  of the  carrying  out of the  pertinent  environmental/social  screening  and/or
environmental/social  assessment  (as  referred 
in  Section  I.E.1,  of  this
Schedule),  it  is  determined  that Resettlement  will  be  involved  in  respect  of any
given  Subproject,  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall  and,  if applicable,  shall
cause  the  pertinent  Participating  Province  (under  the  pertinent  Participation
Agreement)  to:  (a)  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of any  works/activities  under  the
corresponding  Subproject,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  a  resettlement  plan
(acceptable  to  the  Bank) for each  said  Subproject  (which  plan  shall  be consistent
with  the  provisions  of  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework  included  in  the
ESMF); 
thereafter 
the
corresponding  Beneficiary  Community  or  Producer  Organization  to  implement
each  resettlement  plan  in  accordance  with  its terms,  and  in  a manner  acceptable
to  the Bank.

and/or  cause 

immediately 

implement 

and 

(b) 

the 

the 

carrying 

out  of 

environmental/social 

Without limitation  to the  pertinent provisions  of this Agreement,  and  if as a result
of 
and/or
environmental/social  assessment  referred  to  in Section  I.E. 1 of this  Schedule,  and
when  so  determined  by the  Bank as  set forth  in the  IPPF and  the  Environmental
and  Social  Management  Framework,  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  shall  and,
if applicable,  shall  cause  the  pertinent Participating  Province  (under  the  pertinent
Participation  Agreement)  to:  (a)  prior to  the  carrying  out  of any  works/activities
under  the  corresponding  Subproject,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  an

screening 

indigenous  peoples  development  plan  (acceptable  to  the  Bank)  for  each  said
Subproject  (which  plan  shall  be  consistent  with  the  provisions  of the  Indigenous
included  in  the  ESMF);  and  (b)  immediately
Peoples  Planning  Framework 
thereafter  implement  and/or  cause the  corresponding  Beneficiary  Community  or
Producer  Organization  to  implement  each  indigenous  peoples  development  plan
in accordance  with  its terms, and  in a manner acceptable  to  the Bank.

F. 

Other Arrangements

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall  ensure  the  terms  of  reference  for  any
consultancy  in respect  of any  Project activity  under  Part  1(b)  of the  Project  shall
be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  following  its  review  thereof  and,  to  that  end,  such
the  requirements  of  the  Bank
terms  of  reference  shall  duly  incorporate 
Safeguards  Policies then  in force, as applied to  the advice  conveyed  through  such
technical  assistance.

Section H. 

Project  Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1 .

B. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the
Project and  prepare  Project  Reports  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section
5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on the  basis  of Project  indicators  set forth  in
the  Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of one
calendar  semester  (starting  on  the  second  semester  of  2015),  and  shall  be
furnished  to  the  Bank  not later than  forty five  (45)  calendar  days after  the  end  of
the  period covered  by such report.

Financial Management, Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09
of the  General Conditions.

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower,
through  UCAR,  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  part  of the  Project
Report,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports for the  Project, covering  the  pertinent
calendar  semester,  in form  and  substance,  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit of the Financial  Statements  shall cover the  period of one  fiscal year  of
the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months  after the end of such period.

4. 

5. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-12-

The  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall,  prior  to  the  commencement  of  each
calendar  year  during  Project  implementation,  create,  and  thereafter  maintain
throughout  each  said  calendar  year  of Project  implementation,  a  specific  budget
line entry  in  the  national  annual  budget  (starting  in  calendar  year  2015)  in order
to  keep 
incurred  during  Project
implementation.

track  of  the  corresponding  expenditures 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  II.B.3  of  this  Schedule,  the
Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall:  (a) hire  an  independent  auditor  with  experience
and  qualifications  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  for  purposes  of carrying  out  semi-
annual  financial,  procurement  and  technical  audits  of the  activities  under  Parts  2
and  3(b)  of the  Project;  (b)  each calendar  year (starting with  the  year  2016)  have
Parts  2  and  3(b)  of the Project  semi-annually  (or  any other period  as agreed  with
the  Bank)  audited  by  the  auditor  mentioned 
in  (a)  herein,  relating  to  the
Borrower's  previous  calendar  semester  of Project  implementation  (or  any  other
period  as  agreed  with the  Bank),  in  accordance  with  terms  of reference  set  forth
in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  consistently  applied  auditing  financial  and
technical  standards,  all  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (c)  not  later  than  forty  five
(45)  calendar days  after the  end of each  calendar  semester (or any other period  as
agreed  with  the  Bank),  furnish  or  cause  to  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  the
information  as  so  audited,  and  such  other  information  concerning  the  audited
information  and  such  auditors,  as  the  Bank  may  from  time  to  time  reasonably
request.

Section  I. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services. 
All  goods,  works  and  non-
consulting services  required  for the  Project and to be  financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  Section  I of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and with the  provisions  of
this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  in accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and  with the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe
particular  procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular
contracts  refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  or Consultant Guidelines,  as the  case  may be.

-13 

-

4. 

Special  Provisions.  Without  limitation to the  other provisions  in  Section III.A  of
the
this  Schedule, 
procurement  of goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and  consultants'  services
under the  Project (as the  case may  be):

the  following  additional  provisions  shall  also  govern 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

procurement  of  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and  consultants'
services  (in  respect  of  firms)  shall  be  carried  out,  when  applicable  as
determined  by  the  Bank,  using:  (i) standard  bidding  documents  (which
bidding  documents  in  respect  of  works  shall  include,  if applicable,  a
provision  whereby  the  pertinent  contractor  must  comply  with  the
pertinent  provisions  of:  (A)  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management
Framework;  and  (B)  the  corresponding  environmental  management  plan,
a  resettlement  plan,  and/or  an  indigenous  peoples  development  plan
(including  the  provisions  of  any  updated/adjusted  version)  or  similar
safeguard  instrument  referred  to  in  Sections  I.E.1  through  I.E.3  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement  in  respect of the  relevant  Subproject)  and
standard  requests  for  quotations/proposals  (as  the  case  may  be),  all
acceptable  to the  Bank, which  shall  all  include,  inter alia, a settlement  of
dispute  provision  and  the  pertinent  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption
and  model
Guidelines; 
quotations/proposals  evaluation  forms  (as  the  case  may  be);  and  (iii)
model contract  forms, all acceptable to the Bank;

(ii)  model 

evaluation 

forms, 

bid 

all contracts  for works  in  respect of Subprojects  to  be procured  under the
Project  shall contain  a methodology,  acceptable  to the  Bank, whereby  the
price  of  each  said  contract  shall  be  adjusted  through  the  use  of price
adjustment formulas,  in a  manner acceptable  to  the Bank;

a  two-envelope  bidding  procedure  shall  not  be  allowed 
procurement  of goods, works  and  non-consulting  services;

in 

the

after  the  public  opening  of  bids  for  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
information  relating  to  the  examination,  clarification  and
services, 
evaluation  of bids  and  recommendations  concerning  awards,  shall  not be
disclosed  to  bidders  or other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with  this
process  until  the  publication  of  contract  award.  In  addition,  bidders
and/or  other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with  said process  shall  not
be allowed  to review or make  copies of other bidders'  bids;

clarification  and  evaluation  of  proposals 

after  the public  opening of consultants'  proposals,  information relating  to
and
the  examination, 
to
recommendations  concerning  awards, 
consultants  or  other  persons  not  officially  concerned  with  this  process
until  the publication  of contract  award  (except  as  provided  in  paragraphs
2.20  and  2.27  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines).  In  addition,  consultants

shall  not  be  disclosed 

-14-

and/or other  persons  not officially  concerned  with  said process  shall  not
be  allowed  to review or make  copies of other  consultants'  proposals;

foreign  bidders  or  foreign  consultants  shall  not,  as  a  condition  for
submitting bids  or  proposals  and/or  for contract  award:  (i) be  required  to
be  registered  in  Argentina  (except  as  provided  in  the  standard  bidding
documents  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  (a)  (i)  above);  (ii)  be  required  to
have  a representative  in  Argentina;  and  (iii)  be  required  to  be  associated
or subcontract  with Argentine  suppliers,  contractors  or consultants;

the  invitations  to  bid,  bidding  documents,  minutes  of  bid  openings,
requests  for  expressions  of  interest  and  the  pertinent  summary  of the
evaluation  reports  of  bids  and  proposals  of  all  goods,  works,  non-
consulting  services  and  consultants'  services  procured  by  the  Borrower,
through  UCAR,  shall  be  published  in  the  web  page  of the  Borrower's
Office  of National  Procurement  (Oficina Nacional de  Contrataciones),
and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  The  bidding  period  shall  be
counted  from the  date of publication  of the  invitation  to bid or the  date of
the  availability  of the  bidding  documents,  whichever  is  later,  to  the  date
of bid opening;

the  provisions  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2.49,  2.50,  2.52,  2.53,  2.54  and
2.59  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  shall  also  be  applicable  to  contracts
for  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  to  be  procured  under
National  Competitive Bidding  procedures;

references  to bidders  in  one  or  more  specialized  magazines  shall  not  be
used  by  the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  in  determining  if the  bidder  in
respect  of  goods  whose  bid  has  been  determined  to  be  the  lowest
evaluated  bid  has the  capability  and  resources to  effectively  carry  out the
contract  as  offered  in  the  bid,  as referred  to  in  the  provision  set  forth  in
paragraph  2.58  of the  Procurement  Guidelines.  The  provision set  forth  in
paragraph  2.58  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  (including  the  limitation
set  forth  herein)  shall  also  be  applicable  to  contracts  for  goods  to  be
procured  under National  Competitive  Bidding  procedures;

witness  prices  shall  not  be  used  as  a  parameter  for  bid  evaluation,  bid
rejection or contract award;

the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  shall:  (i)  supply  the  SEPA  with  the
information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan  within  30  days
after  the  Project  has  been  approved  by  the  Bank;  and  (ii)  update  the
Procurement  Plan  biannually,  or  as  required  by  the  Bank,  to  reflect  the
actual  project  implementation  needs  and  progress  and  shall  supply  the

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

(k) 

-15-

(1) 

(m) 

(n) 

(o) 

(p) 

SEPA  with  the  information  contained  in  the  updated  Procurement  Plan
immediately  thereafter;

the  provisions  of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the  Procurement
Guidelines  providing  for  domestic  preference  in  the  evaluation  of bids
shall  apply  to  goods  manufactured  in  the  territory  of  the  Borrower  in
respect  of  contracts  for  goods  to  be  procured  under  International
Competitive Bidding  procedures;

compliance  by bidders with  the  norms  issued by  ISO with  respect to any
given good procured  under the  Project shall  not be  used as  parameter  for
contract award;

consultants  shall not be required  to submit bid or performance  securities;

contracts  of  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  not  be
awarded to  the "most  convenient"  bid,  but rather  to the  bidder whose  bid
has  been  determined:  (i) to  be  substantially  responsive;  and  (ii)  to  offer
the  lowest  evaluated  bid,  provided  that  said  bidder  has  demonstrated  to
the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  to  be  qualified  to  perform  the  contract
satisfactorily;  and

in  Section  IV  of  the  Consultant
the  types  of  contracts  described 
Guidelines  shall  be  the  only  types  of  contracts  to  be  used  by  the
in  connection  with  the  contracting  of
Borrower, 
consultants'  services  provided  by  a  firm  and  to  be  financed  with  the
proceeds  of the Loan.

through  UCAR, 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods  of  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on the  basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and
non-consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the  circumstances
under which such methods may be used.

- 16  -

Procurement Method

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding
(b)  Shopping
(c)  Community  Participation
(d)  Direct Contracting

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular  Methods of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis of Quality and Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services.  The following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify  the circumstances  under which  such methods may be used.

Procurement  Method

(a)  Selection  based  on Consultants'  Qualifications
(b)  Single-source  Selection
(c)  Individual  Consultants

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement  Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those contracts  which  shall  be subject  to  the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review  by  the
Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such
additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower
(including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May
2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible Expenditures  as  set
forth  in the table  in paragraph  2 below.

-17-

2. 

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount of the  Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Consultants'  services, 

2,100,000 

100%

Category 

non-consulting  services,
Training  and Operating
Costs  under Part  1 of the
Project

100% of the amount
disbursed  under the  pertinent
Rural  Investment  Subproject
Agreement

100%  of the amount
disbursed under the  pertinent
Rural Investment  Subproject
Agreement

100%  of the  amount
disbursed under the pertinent
Rural Investment  Subproject
Agreement

100% of the  amount
disbursed  under the  pertinent
Rural  Investment  Subproject
Agreement

(2)  (a) Works  and goods under 
Community  Subprojects 
under Part 2  of the  Project 

25,  935,000 

(b) Non-consulting  services
and  consultants'  services 
under Community 
Subprojects under Part 2 of 
the  Project 

1,365,000 

(3)  (a)  Works and  goods under 
IP  Community Subprojects 
under Part 2 of the Project 

11,115,000 

585,000 

(b)  Non-consulting 
services  and  consultants' 
services  under IP 
Community  Subprojects 
under Part 2 of the Project

non-consulting  services,
Goods, Training  and
Operating  Costs under Part
3(a) of the  Project

(4)  Consultants'  services, 

1,000,000 

100%

Category 

Amount of the Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

to  be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(5)  (a) Works and  goods  under 

9,500,000 

- 18-

500,000 

100%  of amount disbursed
under  the pertinent
Productive Alliances
Subproject Agreement

100%  of amount disbursed
under the  pertinent
Productive  Alliances
Subproject Agreement

Productive Alliances 
Subprojects  under Part 3(b) 
of the Project 

(b)  Non-consulting 
services,  consultants' 
services  and Operating 
Costs under Productive 
Alliances  Subprojects
under Part 3 (b)  of the
Project

services and  non-consulting
services under Part 4 of the
Project

(6)  Goods, consultants' 

268,750 

100%

(7)  Front-end  Fee 

131,250 

Amount payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

(8)  Premia  for Interest Rate 
Caps  or Interest  Rate 
Collars 

0 

Amount  due  pursuant to
Section  2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT 

52,500,000

3. 

For purposes  of this paragraph:

(a) 

term  "Training"  means  expenditures 

the 
for
consultants'  services)  incurred  by  the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  all  as
approved  by the  Bank  on the  basis  of an  annual budget  acceptable  to the
Bank,  to  finance  reasonable  transportation  costs and per-diem of trainees
and  trainers  (if  applicable), 
training  registration  fees,  and  rental  of
training facilities  and  equipment;  and

(other 

those 

than 

(b) 

"Operating  Costs"  means reasonable  recurrent  expenditures,  based  on an
annual  budget  previously  approved  by  the  Bank,  that  would  not  have

-19-

been  incurred  by  the  Borrower,  through  UCAR,  absent  the  Project,  for
the  implementation  of the  Project  including,  inter alia: (i) lodging,  per
diem  and  transportation  expenditures  incurred  by  Buyers  who  provide
technical  assistance to Producer  Organizations  under Productive Alliance
Subprojects  up to  the  percentage  established  in  the  Operational  Manual;
and  (ii)  fees  to  intermediary  agents  who  participate  in  the  process  of
alliance  promotion  and  preparation  and  whose  work  is  assessed  by
technical  evaluation  groups  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  provided
in the Operational  Manual;  excluding civil servant  salaries.

B. 

1. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior to the  Signature  Date,  except that  withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $10,500,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior to this date but  on or after October  23,  2014  (but in no case
more  than  one  year  prior  to  the  Signature  Date),  for Eligible  Expenditures  if the
pertinent  obligations  set  forth  in  this  Agreement,  as  applicable  to  each  Eligible
Expenditure,  have been  complied  with.

2. 

The Closing Date  is February 28,  2021.

- 20  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the
Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each June  15  and December  15

Beginning June  15,  2022 
through December  15,  2045

On June  15,  2046 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

2.04%

2.08%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan  have  not been fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of
the  first  Principal  Payment  Date, 
the
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance as  of such date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I
of this Schedule.

the  Borrower  shall  repay 

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the
amount of each such  withdrawal  by a fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is
the  original Installment  Share specified  in the  table  in  paragraph  I of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion applies.

-21-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within two  calendar months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the  date  of  withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each
Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment
Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at  any  time  the  Bank  adopts  a  due  date  billing  system  under  which
invoices  are issued  on or after the respective  Principal  Payment  Date, the
longer  apply  to  any
provisions  of  such  sub-paragraph 
withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such  billing system.

shall  no 

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion
Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its
currency  of denomination  immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i) the
exchange  rate  that reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency
payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the
Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange rate  component of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in  more than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in  each  Loan  Currency,  so  as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for
each such  amount.

- 22  -

SCHEDULE  4

Terms and Conditions  of Rural Investment  Subproject Agreements

Each  Rural  Investment  Subproject  Agreement  monitored  and  supervised  by  the

Borrower shall  contain, inter alia, the  following  provisions:

(a) 

the obligation of the Borrower,  through MAGyP:

to  promptly  disburse  to  each  Beneficiary  Community  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  corresponding  Rural
Investment  Subproject  in a manner acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

to  ensure  that  the  pertinent  Rural  Investment  Subproject  is
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;

(b) 

the  right  of  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  to  take  remedial  actions
against  the  pertinent  Beneficiary  Community  in  case  said  Beneficiary
Community  shall  have  failed to comply  with any of its  obligations under
the  pertinent  Rural  Investment  Subproject  Agreement  (which  actions
may  include,  inter alia, the  partial  or total  suspension  and/or cancellation
of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  said  Rural  Investment
Subproject,  all as previously  agreed  with the  Bank);  and

(c) 

the  obligation of each Beneficiary  Community:

to  carry  out  the  pertinent  Rural  Investment  Subproject  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound technical,
economic, 
financial,  managerial,  environmental, 
social  and
cultural  property  practices,  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  (applicable  to  recipients  of Loan
proceeds  other  than the  Borrower),  the  Procurement  Guidelines,
the  Consultant  Guidelines,  the  Operational  Manual  and  the
ESMF;

to  use  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  pertinent  Rural
Investment  Subproject  solely  for  purpose  of  financing  said
subproject;

to  co-finance  part  of the  cost  of the  pertinent  Rural  Investment
Subproject  as provided  in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  provide,
promptly  as  needed,  the  services,  facilities  and  other counterpart
resources  necessary  or appropriate  to  carry  out the  corresponding
subproject;

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

-23-

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

not to  assign,  amend, terminate,  abrogate, repeal,  waive  or fail to
enforce  the  pertinent Rural  Investment  Subproject Agreement  or
any provision thereof, unless previously  agreed  by the Borrower,
through  MAGyP,  and the Bank;

if applicable,  to  comply,  or  caused  to  be  complied,  with  the
obligations  referred  to  in  Sections  5.05,  5.06  (a),  5.07,  5.10  and
5.11  of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  land  acquisition,  use
of goods, works  and  services,  plans,  supporting  documentation,
cooperation,  consultation  and  visits,  respectively)  in  respect  of
the pertinent Rural Investment  Subproject;  and

to  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  all  action  to  enable  the  Borrower,
through  MAGyP,  to  comply  with  its  obligations  referred  to  in
this Agreement,  as applicable  to  the  carrying  out of the  pertinent
Rural Investment  Subproject.

- 24  -

SCHEDULE  5

Terms and Conditions  of Productive Alliance  Subproject Agreements

Each  Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreement  shall  contain,  inter alia, the

following  provisions:

(a) 

the obligation of the Borrower,  through  MAGyP:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

to  promptly  disburse to  each Producer  Organization the  proceeds
of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  corresponding  Productive  Alliance
Subproject  in a manner  acceptable  to  the Bank;

if  a  Buyer  were  to  provide  technical  assistance  to  a  Producer
Organization  under  a  Productive  Alliance  Subproject, 
to
reimburse  Operating  Costs  (as  such  term  is  defined  in  Section
IV.A.3(b)  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement)  up to  the  percentage
set forth  in the Operational  Manual  to that effect;

to  guarantee 

if  necessary, 
to  Producer
Organizations,  with  the  objective  of financing  their  respective
percentage  of  the  cost  of  the  pertinent  Productive  Alliance
Subproject  (as  such  percentage  is  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual);

access 

credit 

(iv) 

to  ensure  that  the  pertinent  Productive  Alliance  Subproject  is
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines;  and

(b) 

the  right  of  the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  to  take  remedial  actions
against  the  pertinent  Producer  Organization 
in  case  said  Producer
Organization  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its  obligations
under  the  pertinent  Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreement  (which
actions  may  include,  inter alia, the  partial  or  total  suspension  and/or
cancellation  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  pertinent
Productive  Alliance  Subproject  (as  the  case  may  be),  all  as  previously
agreed with the  Bank);  and

(c) 

the obligation of each  Producer  Organization:

(i) 

to  carry  out  the  pertinent  Productive  Alliance  Subproject  with
due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound
technical,  economic,  financial,  managerial,  environmental,  social
and cultural  property practices,  in accordance  with the provisions
of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  (applicable  to  recipients  of

-25-

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

Loan  proceeds  other  than  the  Borrower),  the  Procurement
Guidelines,  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  the  Operational  Manual
and  the ESMF;

to  use  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  pertinent
Productive  Alliance  Subproject  solely  for  purpose  of  financing
said  subproject;

to  co-finance  part of the  cost of the  pertinent Productive  Alliance
Subproject  as  provided  in  the  Operational  Manual,  and  provide,
promptly  as needed,  the  services,  facilities  and  other  counterpart
resources necessary  or appropriate  to carry  out the corresponding
subproject;

not to  assign, amend,  terminate,  abrogate, repeal,  waive  or fail to
enforce  the  Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreement  or  any
provision  thereof,  unless  previously  agreed  by  the  Borrower,
through  MAGyP,  and the  Bank;

if applicable,  to  comply,  or  caused  to  be  complied,  with  the
obligations  referred  to  in  Sections  5.05,  5.06  (a),  5.07,  5.10  and
5.11  of the  General  Conditions  (relating to  land  acquisition,  use
of goods,  works  and  services,  plans,  supporting  documentation,
cooperation,  consultation  and  visits,  respectively)  in  respect  of
the pertinent  Productive  Alliance  Subproject;  and

(vi) 

to  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  all  action  to  enable  the  Borrower,
through  MAGyP,  to  comply  with  its  obligations  referred  to  in
this Agreement,  as applicable  to the  carrying  out of the  pertinent
Productive  Alliance.

- 26  -

SCHEDULE  6

Terms and Conditions of Participating Agreements

Each  Participation  Agreement  shall contain,  inter alia, the  following  provisions:

(a) 

the  obligation  of the Borrower,  through  MAGyP:

to  promptly  disburse,  on  a grant  basis,  to each  Participating  Province  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  corresponding  Rural  Investment
Subproject(s)  in  a manner acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

to  ensure  that  the  pertinent Rural  Investment  Subproject  is carried  out  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

(b) 

the  right  of the  Borrower,  through  MAGyP,  to  take  remedial  actions  against the
pertinent  Participating  Province  in  case  said  Participating  Province  shall  have
failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  pertinent  Participation
Agreement  (which  actions  may include,  inter alia, the  partial  or total  suspension
and/or  cancellation  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  said  Rural
Investment  Subproject, all as previously agreed  with the  Bank);  and

(c) 

the  obligation of each Participating  Province:

to  ensure  that the  pertinent  Rural  Investment  Subproject  is carried  out  in
accordance  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of  this  Agreement  (including
the  pertinent  obligations  set  forth  in  the  Procurement  and  Financial
Management  sections),  the  Operational  Manual,  the  ESMF  and  the  Anti-
Corruption Guidelines;  and

prior to the  carrying  out  of any  given  Rural  Investment  Subproject,  enter
into an  agreement  with the  corresponding  Beneficiary  Community  under
terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank  which  shall  include  the
terms set  forth in paragraph  (c)  of Schedule  4 to this Agreement.

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

-27-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and revised  in January 2011.

the  Bank's  operational  policies  and
"Bank's  Safeguards  Policies"  means 
procedures  set  forth  in the  Bank's Operational  Manual  under OP/BPs 4.01,  4.04,
4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60,  as  said  manual  is  published
under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Buyer"  means  a  qualified  market  agent  (such  as  a  wholesaler,  large  retailer,
agroprocessor  or exporter)  who participates  in a Productive  Alliance,  as specified
in  the Operational  Manual.

"Beneficiary  Community"  means a group  of individuals,  communities  (including
indigenous  people  communities)  or  organizations  who  have  met  the  criteria  set
forth in the  Operational  Manual to carry  out Rural  Investment  Subprojects.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth  in the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this Agreement.

"Community  Subproject"  means  any  of the  investments  referred  to  in  Part  2  of
the  Project (except for IP Community  Subprojects).

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011  and  revised July 2104.

"Contracting  Management  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in
Section  I.A.5  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Contracting  Management  Entity"  means  any  private  or public  entity acceptable
to  the Bank, that may  assist the  Borrower in the  carrying out of Parts  1(a),  1(b),  2
and  3(a)  of  the  Project,  and  that  complies  with  the  terms,  conditions  and
eligibility  criteria set forth to that effect  in the  Operational  Manual.

10. 

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Borrower's  framework,  dated  October  21,  2014  (included  in  the  Operational
Manual),  which  sets  forth,  inter alia:  (a)  the  guidelines  for  carrying  out  the
environmental  assessments  referred  to  in  Section  I.E.1  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement;  (b)  the  generic  description  of  the  type  of environmental  impacts
which  may  affect  Subprojects  and  the  actions  to  mitigate  any  negative  impacts

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

-28-

to  prevent  natural  habitat  conversion  or  degradation; 

that  may  occur  as  a  result  of  their  implementation;  (c)  the  guidelines  to  be
followed in  connection  with the  finding  of cultural  property;  (d)  the  guidelines  to
be  followed 
the
guidelines  for  public  consultation;  (f)  the  procedures  and  technical  specifications
to  be  followed  by  eligible contractors  in the  carrying  out  of Subprojects;  (g)  the
Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework;  and  (h) 
the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework,  as  said  framework  may  be  updated  and/or  amended  from  time  to
time with the  agreement  of the Bank.

(e) 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section II  of this Appendix.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or  "IPPF"  means  the  Borrower's
framework,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (included  in  the  ESMF),  dated  October  21,
2014,  setting  forth the  indigenous  peoples  policy  framework  applicable  to  all  the
activities  to  be  carried  out  under  the  Project  and  the  basis  and  procedures  to
prepare  specific  indigenous  peoples'  plans  or  related  instruments  during  Project
implementation  under  Section I.E.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"IP  Community  Subproject"  means  any  of the  investments referred  to  in Part  2  of
the  Project  in  which  indigenous  peoples  are  direct  Beneficiary  Communities  of
the  activities  supported by  said  investments.

"ISO"  means  International  Organization  for  Standardization,  an  international-
standard-setting  body  composed  of  representatives 
from  various  national
standards  organizations  which 
issues  world-wide  proprietary  industrial  and
commercial  standards for products.

"MAGyP"  means Ministerio de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Pesca, the  Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture,  Livestock  and Fisheries,  or any  successor thereto.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  sets
forth, inter alia: (a)  the eligibility  criteria  for selecting Beneficiary  Communities,
Producer  Organizations,  Buyers  and  approval  of Subprojects;  (b)  the  structures,
functions  and responsibilities  of UCAR  under the  Project;  (c)  the  Environmental
and  Social  Management  Framework;  (d)  the  Project's  chart  of accounts  and
internal  controls;  (e)  the  formats  of:  (i)  the  unaudited  interim  financial  reports
referred  to  in  Section  II.B.2  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  (ii)  the
Financial  Statements;  (f)  the  terms of reference  for carrying  out the  Project audits
under  Section  II.B.3  of  Schedule  2 
the  Project
performance 
the  Project
disbursement  and  procurement  procedures;  and  (i)  standard  models  of  the
Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreement  and  the  Rural  Investment  Subproject

(g) 
the  results  framework);  (h) 

indicators  (including 

this  Agreement; 

to 

- 29  -

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

Agreement,  as  said  manual  may  be  updated  and/or  amended  from  time  to  time
with the  agreement  of the  Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods, Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  and  revised July  2014.

"Participation  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section
I.D. 1 (a) (i) of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

"Participating  Province"  means  any  of the  political  subdivisions  of the  Borrower
as  per  Title  Two  of the  Borrower's  Constitution  which  has  met  the  eligibility
criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  to  monitor  and  supervise  a  Rural
Investment  Subproject.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,
dated  October  23,  2014,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement
Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as the  same  shall be
updated  from time  to time  in accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Producer  Organization"  means  an  organization  of  small  producers  which  has
met the  eligibility  criteria  set forth  in the  Operational  Manual  (as  defined  above)
to benefit  from a Productive Alliance  Subproject  under Part 3(b)  of the  Project.

"Productive  Alliance"  means  a  business  venture  between  a  Producer
Organization  and  a Buyer to  carry  out a Productive  Alliance  Subproject  that will
meet particular specifications  such  as quantity, quality and  delivery  schedule.

"Productive  Alliance  Subproject"  means  any  of  the  investments  referred  to  in
Part 3 (b)  of the  Project.

"Productive  Alliance  Subproject  Agreement"  means  any  of  the  agreements
referred  to  in Section  I.D.3  (a)  of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the
Project,  which taking  causes  affected persons  to have their:  (a) standard of living
adversely  affected;  or  (b)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (c)  access  to  productive
temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (d)  business,
assets  adversely  affected, 
occupation,  work or  place of residence  or habitat  adversely  affected,  temporarily
or permanently.

-30-

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,
dated  October  21,  2014,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (included  in  the  ESMF)  which
sets  forth,  inter  alia, the  principles  and  objectives  governing  Resettlement
preparation  and  implementation,  and  a  description  of  the  applicable 
legal
framework  of the  Borrower  and  of each  Participating  Province  and  the  process
for preparing  and  approving  resettlement  plans  under Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement.

"Rural  Investment  Subproject"  means  either  a  Community  Subproject  and/or  an
IP  Community  Subproject,  as specified  in the  Operational  Manual.

"Rural  Investment  Subproject  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred
to  in  Section  I.D. 1 (a)  (ii)  of Schedule  2  and  paragraph  (c)  (ii)  of Schedule  6 to
this Agreement.

"SEPA"  means  the  Bank's  publicly  accessible  Procurement  Plans  Execution
System.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest  of the  two  dates  on  which  the  Borrower  and
the  Bank signed  the  Loan Agreement  and  such  definition  applies to  all references
to  "the date of the Loan Agreement"  in the  General  Conditions.

"Subproject"  means  either  a  Community  Subproject,  an  IP  Community
Subproject  and/or  a  Productive  Alliances  Subproject,  all  as  specified  in  the
Operational  Manual.

"Technical  Assistance  Agreement"  means  any  of  the  agreements  referred  to  in
Section  I.A.4 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Technical  Assistance  Entity"  means  any  public  or  private  entity  (or  entities),
acceptable  to  the  Bank, that may  assist the  Borrower  in  the  carrying  out  of Parts
1(a),  1(b)  and  3(a) of the  Project, and  that complies  with  the  technical  eligibility
criteria  set forth to that effect in the  Operational  Manual.

34. 

"UCAR"  means Unidadpara el Cambio Rural, the Unit for Agricultural  Change,
established  within MAGyP,  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to  the Bank.

-31  -

Section  H. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions are hereby  modified  as follows:

1. 

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names and  Section
numbers  are  modified  to  reflect  the  modifications  set  forth  in  the  paragraphs
below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate  specified  in the Loan  Agreement (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue from  a date sixty
days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective  dates  on  which
amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.
The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each
Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the  purpose of Section 3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the  term "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but  not  limited  to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the
Front-end  Fee,  the  Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

-32-

any),  any  prepayment  premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early
termination  of a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any
premium  payable  upon the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate
Collar, and  any Unwinding  Amount payable by the  Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the words "and  Commitment  Charge are" after the  word "interest".

