OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8636-ID

Loan Agreement

(National  Slum Upgrading  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

AL6UT 

Z21 

,2016

2 of 29 

LN-8636

LOAN  AGREEMENT

LOAN  NUMBER  8636-ID

Agreement  dated  AucUsT 

2 z  ,2016,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  INDONESIA  ("Borrower")
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The
Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby  agree  as  follows:

WHEREAS  (A)  the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself as  to the  feasibility  and  priority  of the
Project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  ("Project"),  has  requested  the  Bank  to  extend  a
loan  to  assist  in the financing  of the  Project;  and

(B) 

has 

also 

the  Borrower 

Investment  Bank
("Co-financier"),  to  provide  additional  assistance  towards  the  financing  of the  Project,  and  the  Co-
financier  intends  to  make  available  to  the  Borrower  a  loan  for  such  purpose  in  an  amount  of two
hundred  sixteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  United  States  Dollars  (USD  216,500,000),  ("Co-
financing"),  pursuant  to  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between the  Borrower  and  the Co-financier
("Co-financing  Agreement");

requested  Asian 

Infrastructure 

NOW THEREFORE,  the Borrower  and  the Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General Conditions  (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an  integral
part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have  the

meanings  ascribed  to them  in the General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to
in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of two hundred  sixteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  United
States  Dollars  (USD  216,500,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.08  of  this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of  one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Front-end  Fee  not  later  than sixty
days  after  the Effective  Date.

3 of 29 

LN-8636

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of  one

percent (0.25%)  per  annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate  equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the interest  payable  by
the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined 
in
accordance  with 
IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable  by the Borrower  shall  instead  be calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of
the General  Conditions.

the  relevant  provisions  of  Article 

2.06.  The Payment  Dates  are January  15  and July  15  in  each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the terms
of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of the  Loan
Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or
unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of  the  interest  rate  basis
applicable  to:  (A)  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn
and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or  vice versa;  or  (B)  all or  any
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the Variable  Spread, or  vice  versa;  or  (C)  all  of
the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the
setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or  any
portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  by  the
establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar on  the Variable  Rate  or
the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is  accepted
in  the  General
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined 
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV  of
the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

2.09. 

(a) 

If on  any given  day, the Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit (as  said
terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of this  Section),  the  Borrower
shall  pay  to  the  Bank  a  surcharge  at  the  rate  of one  half of one  percent  (0.5%)  per
annum  of the Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)
of this  Section)  for  each said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge
(if  any)  shall be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment  Date.

4  of 29 

LN-8636

(b) 

For purposes  of this  Section the following  terms  have  the meanings  set forth below:

(i) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount"  means  for  each  day  during  which  the
Total Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit, the  product  of:  (A)  the
total  amount  of  said  excess;  and  (B)  the  ratio  of  all  (or,  if  the  Bank  so
determines,  a  portion)  of the  Loan  to  the  aggregate  amount  of  all  (or  the
equivalent  portions)  of the  loans  made  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  and  to
other  borrowers  guaranteed  by  the  Borrower  that  are  also  subject  to  an
exposure  surcharge,  as  said  excess  and  ratio  are  reasonably  determined  from
time to time  by the Bank.

(ii) 

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the  Bank's  financial
exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if exceeded,  would  subject the  Loan  to  the
Exposure  Surcharge,  as determined  from time  to time by the Bank.

(iii) 

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's 
exposure  to the Borrower,  as reasonably  determined  by the Bank.

total  financial

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  the  Ministry  of  Public  Works  and  Housing
(MPWH)  in accordance  with the provisions  of Article V of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is
carried  out in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule 2  to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01.  The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the  Co-
financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all  conditions  precedent  to  its
effectiveness  or  to  the  right  of the  Borrower  to  make  withdrawals  under  it  (other  than  the
effectiveness  of this Agreement)  have  been fulfilled.

4.02.  The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90)  days  after  the date of this  Agreement.

5 of 29 

LN-8636

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  the Minister  of Finance.

5.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Directorate  General  of Budget  Financing  and  Risk Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung  Frans  Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No.  1
Jakarta  10710  - Indonesia
Facsimile:
+62-21-381-2859

5.03.  The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at Jakarta,  Republic  of Indonesia, as  of the day  and year  first  above written.

6 of 29 

LN-8636

REPUBLIC  OF INDONESIA

Authorized  Representative

Name:  P-OE2T 

IAY-PAHAN

012cTO-  GENEP-AL  OF  "ifOGT

Title: 

FINANCING  ANO 

IZISY  TMANAGEMtNT

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

e:_________

Title:

7 of 29 

LN-8636

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  access  to  urban  infrastructure  and  services  in

targeted slums  in  Indonesia.

The Project  consists of the  following  parts:

1 .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Institutional and  Policy  Development
Support  institutional  strengthening  and  capacity  building  of central  government  ministries
and  agencies  (such  as  BAPPENAS  and  MPWH)  which  are  responsible  for  the  management
of  the  national  slum  upgrading  program 
through  carrying  out  such  activities  as:  (a)
institutional  analysis  at  the  national  level  and  at  a  sample  of  municipal  governments  to
identify  the  nature  of support  needed  to  facilitate  inter-agency  coordination  during  program
preparation,  implementation  and  supervision  stages;  and  (b)  strategic  national  upstream
policy  level  studies  to  facilitate  the  development  of  government  policy  to  support  the
sustainability  of slum upgrading  and prevention  efforts.

Integrated  Planning  Support  and  Capacity  Building  for  Local  Governments  and
Communities
Support  the  recruitment  and  deployment  of  experts  and  community  facilitators  to  support
capacity  building  of  governments  and  communities 
in  selected  Cities  to  design  and
implement  slum  improvements,  including  the  development  of  Slum  Improvement  Action
Plans (SIAPs)  and Community  Settlement  Plans  (CSPs).

Urban Infrastructure and  Services  Investment  Support
3.1.  Carrying  out  Sub-projects  to support  primary  and  secondary  infrastructure  improvement,
site  development  as  well  as  construction  of connecting  infrastructure  in  selected  Cities  as
identified  in SIAPs.

3.2.  Providing  Kelurahan  Grants  to  Participating  Kelurahans  to  fund  Sub-projects  for tertiary
infrastructure  upgrading  in  selected  Cities  based  on  a  community-driven  approach  including,
inter  alia,  small  scale  water  supply,  drainage,  sanitation,  footpaths,  fire  safety  and  site
livelihoods  through  the
improvements,  as  well  as  for  strengthening  community-based 
construction  of livelihood-enabling  facilities and  services  as  important  for slum prevention.

Implementation Support and Technical  Assistance
for  Project
technical  support,  management,  advisory  services  and  training 
Providing 
management  and stakeholders'  collaboration  at national,  provincial  and  city  levels,  as  well  as
monitoring  and evaluation.

Contingency  for Disaster Response
Providing  preparedness  and  rapid  response  measures  to  address  disaster,  emergency  and/or
catastrophic  events,  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  Emergency  Response  Operations
Manual.

8 of 29 

LN-8636

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arran2ements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements

At the national  level, the Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  subject  to  the  overall  guidance  and  oversight
of Pokja  PKP  (national  working  group  for  housing  and  settlement),  chaired  by  the
BAPPENAS  and  including  - among  others  - representatives  from  the  MPWH,  the
Ministry  of Finance,  the  Ministry  of Home  Affairs,  the  Ministry  of Health,  Ministry
of Land  and  Spatial Planning  and  the Central  Bureau  of Statistics;

(i) 

maintain,  until  completion  of  the  Project: 
the  Project  Management  Unit,
established  in  MPWH,  to  be  responsible  for  the  management  and  monitoring  of the
Project;  and  (ii)  Central  Project  Implementation  Unit,  established 
in  MPWH,
responsible  for  day-to-day  implementation  of  the  Project  including  recruitment  of
consultants  and  service  providers  and  production  of reports  on  the  progress  of the
Project, 
in  each  case,  with a  mandate,  composition  and  terms  of reference  as  set  out
in the  Project  Operations  Manual  and acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

ensure  that  each  of the  Project  Management  Unit  and  Central  Project  Implementation
Unit  are  provided  at  all times  with  adequate  funds  and  other resources  and staffed  by
qualified  personnel  in  adequate  numbers  as  shall  be  necessary  to  accomplish  the
objectives  of the  Project.

at  the  level  of  each  participating  Province,  cause  to  be  established,  prior  to  the
commencement  of Project  activities  in  each  such  Province  and  thereafter  maintain
until  completion  of  the  Project  a  Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit  (PPIU),
responsible  for:  (i)  day-to-day  implementation  of  the  Project,  including  recruiting
City  Coordinator  and  his/  her  assistants,  the  community  facilitators  as  well  as
managing  community  training,  in  both  cases  with  a  mandate,  composition  and  terms
of reference  acceptable  to the Bank;  and  (ii)  ensuring  coordination with  the Provincial
Housing  and Settlement  Taskforce;

at  the  level  of  each  Participating  City,  cause  to  be  established,  prior  to  the
commencement  of Project  activities  in such  Participating  City  and thereafter  maintain
until  completion  of  the  Project,  a  City  Project  Implementation  Unit  (CPIU),
responsible  for:  (i)  day-to-day  implementation  of the  Project,  including  channeling  of
Kelurahan  Grants,  with  a  mandate,  composition  and  terms  of reference  as  set  out  in
the  Project  Operations  Manual;  and  (ii)  ensuring  coordination  with  the  City  Housing
and  Settlement  Taskforce;

2. 

The Borrower,  through  MPWH,  shall:

Implementation Arrangements - Manuals

B. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall:

9 of 29 

LN-8636

at  the  level  of each Participating  Kelurahan,  establish prior  to  the  commencement  of
Project  activities  in  such  Participating  Kelurahan,  and  thereafter  maintain  until
completion  of the  Project,  a  BKM,  legally  established,  whose  mandate,  composition
and  terms  of reference  shall  include  a  financial  management  unit  or  specialist  as  set
out  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  to  be  responsible  for  implementation  of the
Project  at the Kelurahan-level;  and

ensure  that  each  PPIU,  CPIU  and  BKM  shall  be  provided  with  adequate  funds  and
other  resources,  and  supported  by  qualified  technical,  financial  and  administrative
personnel  in  adequate  numbers  as  needed  to  accomplish  the objectives  of the Project.

to 

(ii) 

include 

the  Bank,  which  shall 

ensure  that  the  Project  is  implemented  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operations
Manual,  acceptable 
(i)
implementation  arrangements; 
the  procurement  procedures  and  standard
procurement  documentation; 
(iii)  reporting  requirements,  financial  management
procedures  and  audit  procedures;  (iv)  criteria  for  Eligible  Expenditures,  including
without  limitation,  under  Sub-projects;  (v)  the  Project  performance  indicators;  (vi)
arrangement  and procedures  for  environment  and  social  safeguard  management;  (vii)
maintenance  provisions  for  works  to  be  carried  out  under  a  Sub-projects;  (viii)
arrangement  and  procedures 
for  identifying,  developing  and  implementing  Sub-
projects;  and  (ix)  monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements;

the  description  of: 

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provisions  of  the  Project
Operations  Manual  without  the  prior  written  agreement  of  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank;

is  made  available,  at  all  times  until
ensure  that  the  Project  Operations  Manual 
completion  of the  Project,  to  consultants,  service  providers,  City  Coordinators  and
community  facilitators  and  Participating  Local  Governments,  and  applied  in  the
carrying  out of Sub-projects;  and

with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  update  the  Project
Operations  Manual,  as  necessary,  at  all  times  ensuring  compliance  thereof with  the
terms of this Agreement.

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

2. 

3. 

In  the  event  of any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of:  (a)  the  Project  Operations  Manual;
and  (b)  those  of this  Agreement,  the  latter shall  prevail.

In  order  to  ensure  the  proper  implementation  of  Part  5  of  the  Project  ("Emergency
Response"),  the  Borrower  shall:

10 of 29 

LN-8636

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and  approval,  an  operations  manual
which  shall  set  forth  detailed  implementation  arrangements  for  the  Emergency
Response,  including:  (i)  designation  of, terms  of reference  for  and  resources  to  be
allocated  to  the  entity  to  be  responsible  for  coordinating  and  implementing  the
Emergency  Response  ("Coordinating  Agency");  (ii)  specific  activities  which may  be
included 
in  the  Emergency  Response,  Eligible  Expenditures  required  therefor
("Emergency  Expenditures"),  and  any  procedures  for  such  inclusion;  (iii)  financial
management  arrangements  for the  Emergency  Response;  (iv)  procurement  methods
and  procedures  for  Emergency  Expenditures  to  be  financed  under  the  Emergency
Response;  (v)  documentation  required  for withdrawals  of Emergency  Expenditures;
(vi)  environmental  and social  safeguard  management  frameworks  for  the Emergency
Response,  consistent  with  the  Bank  policies  on  the  matter;  and  (vii)  any  other
arrangements  necessary  to  ensure  proper  coordination  and  implementation  of the
Emergency  Response;

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  review  said  proposed  operations
manual;

promptly  adopt  such  operations  manual  for  the  Emergency  Response  as  shall  have
been  approved by  the Bank  ("Emergency  Response  Operations  Manual");

ensure  that  Part  5 of the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  Emergency
Response  Operations  Manual;  and

not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of  the  Emergency
Response  Operations  Manual  without  prior approval  by the Bank.

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of: 
Operations  Manual;  and  (b)  those of this  Agreement,  the  latter shall prevail.

(a)  the  Emergency  Response

Environment  and  Social  Safeguards

the  Borrower  shall  apply  and  shall  ensure 

that  each  Participating  Local  Government 

In  carrying  out  Sub-projects, 
that  each
Participating  Local  Government  (including  Participating  Kelurahan)  shall  apply  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework  and,  where  applicable:  (a)  prepare  and
ensure 
an
Environmental  Management  Plan,  a  PCR  Management  Plan,  an  IPP  or  LARAP  for  each
Sub-project,  fully  consistent  with  this  Agreement  and  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework;  (b)  furnish such  plan to  the  Bank  for  written  no-objection  prior to
carrying  out  the Sub-project;  and  (c)  thereafter  implement  the  Sub-project  (or cause  the Sub-
project to  be implemented)  in  accordance  with  such  plan(s).

shall  prepare, 

required, 

as 

4. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  all  technical  assistance  activities  under  the  Project  are
undertaken  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines,  requirements  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the
Safeguards  Instruments  and the relevant  operational  policies  of the Bank.

11 of 29 

LN-8636

3. 

Without  limitation to paragraph  I above,  in  carrying  out  Sub-projects,  the Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

take  all  necessary  actions  to  avoid or minimize  to the  extent  possible  any  involuntary
relocation  of persons,  or  their  loss  of shelter,  assets,  or  access  to  assets,  or  loss  of
income  sources  or  means  of livelihood,  temporarily  or permanently;

in  the  event  that  Project  activities  give  rise  to  Displaced  Persons,  prior  to  the
commencement  of  such  activities,  cause  to  be  prepared,  a  Land  Acquisition  and
Resettlement  Action  Plan,  acceptable  to the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  the guidelines,
requirements  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement
Policy  Framework,  and  thereafter  implement  or  cause  to  the  implemented  in  a  timely
manner  said Land Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Plan as  approved  by the  Bank;

in  the  case  of  voluntary  land  donation,  ensure  that  the  planning  and  verification
procedures 
for  land  donation  (voluntary  donation  without  compensation  and
voluntary  transfer  without  compensation)  set  out  in  the  Project  Operational  Manual
shall  have  been  followed  and  documented  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and
the Project Management  Unit  prior to the commencement  of the  Sub-project;  and

in  the  case  of voluntary  community-based  land  consolidation,  ensure  that  planning
and  verification procedures  for the voluntary  community-based  land  consolidation  set
out  in  the  Project Operational  Manual  shall  have  been  followed  and  documented  in  a
manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  the  Project  Management  Unit  prior  to  the
commencement  of the Sub-project.

4. 

5. 

The  Borrower  shall,  and  shall  cause  each  Participating  Local  Government  (including
Participating  Kelurahan)  to,  ensure  that  all  land  acquisition  required  for  the  purposes  of
carrying  out  works  under  the  Project  are  financed  exclusively  out  of its  own  resources,  and
shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the resources  needed  for these  purposes,  including:  (a)  all
land  acquisition  required  for  the  purposes  of carrying  out  the  Project;  (b)  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  payments  to  Displaced  Persons;  and  (c)  all  other  costs  associated  with
environmental  and/or  social  mitigation measures  set forth in  the Safeguard  Instruments.

Where  Indigenous  Peoples  are  present  in,  or  have  a  collective  attachment  to, the  area  of the
Participating  Local  Government  (including  Kelurahan),  the  Borrower  shall  apply,  and  shall
ensure  that  the Participating  Local  Government  shall  apply,  the Indigenous  Peoples  Planning
Framework  to Sub-project  implementation,  including:

avoiding,  and,  if  not  possible,  minimizing  cultural,  social  and  economic  adverse
effects  on Indigenous  Peoples  caused  or  likely to be caused  by  the Project;

through  a  process  of  free,  prior,  and  informed  consultation  and  participation,
involving  concerned  Indigenous  Peoples  in  the  design  and  implementation  of Sub-
projects  so  as  to  ensure  that  there  is  broad  community  support  for  Sub-projects  and
that the benefits  received  by  the Indigenous  Peoples under the  Project are  in  harmony
with  their  economic,  social  and  cultural  preferences  and  protect their  customary  user
rights;  and

12  of 29 

LN-8636

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

preparing  an  Indigenous  Peoples  Plan  for  the  Participating  Local  Government  based
on the  foregoing  consultations  and  furnish such  Indigenous  Peoples  Plan to  the  Bank
for  written  no-objection  prior  to  carrying  out  the  Sub-projects  in  such  Participating
Local Government;  and thereafter  implement the  Sub-project  in  accordance  with  such
plan

6. 

The Borrower  shall:

not  amend,  revise  or  waive,  nor  allow  to  be  amended,  revised  or  waived,  the
provisions  of the  Safeguard  Instruments  or  any  provision  of any  one  thereof, without
the prior written  agreement  of the Bank;  and

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and  evaluate,  in
accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  implementation  of  the
Safeguard  Instruments.

7. 

In  case  of any  inconsistency  between  the  provisions  of any  of the  Safeguard  Instruments  and
this Agreement,  the provisions  of this  Agreement  shall  prevail.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

E. 

1 .

Sub-projects

Sub-projects  generally.

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  Sub-projects  under  Parts  3  and  5  of the  Project  are
prepared,  reviewed,  approved  and  implemented  on  the  basis  of  eligibility  and
selection criteria,  and  in  accordance  with  guidelines  and  procedures,  all  acceptable  to
the  Bank, 
including,  inter  alia,  those  set  forth  in  this  Agreement, 
the  Project
Operations  Manual,  and as  applicable,  the Emergency  Response  Operations  Manual.

(b)  Without  limitation  to  the  foregoing,  no  activity  proposed  as  a  Sub-project  shall  be
eligible  for  financing  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  unless  the  Sub-project
Implementing  Entity  has  undertaken  to:  (i)  carry  out  the  Sub-project  with  due
diligence  and efficiency  and  in  accordance  with  sound technical,  economic,  financial,
managerial,  environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices  satisfactory  to  the
Bank;  (ii)  require  its  personnel  and  other  representatives  involved  in  its  Sub-project
to  adhere  to  the  highest  ethical  standards  in  connection  with  its  Sub-project,  and  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;  (iii)  provide,
promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for  the  purpose;  (iv)  procure  the  goods,
works  and  services  required  for  the  Sub-project  and  to  be  financed  out  of  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement;  (v)
maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and  evaluate  in
accordance  with  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of the  Sub-project
and  the  achievement  of  its  objectives;  (vi)  (A)  maintain  a  financial  management

13  of 29 

LN-8636

(c) 

system  and  prepare  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
accounting  standards  acceptable  to the  Bank,  both in  a  manner  adequate  to  reflect the
operations,  resources  and  expenditures  related  to  the  Sub-project;  and  (B)  at  the
Bank's  or  the  Borrower's  request,  have  such  financial  statements  audited  by
independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
auditing  standards  acceptable  to the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish  the  statements  as  so
audited  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank;  (vii)  enable  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to
inspect  the  Sub-project,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and  documents;  and
(viii)  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  all  such  information  as  the
Borrower  or the Bank  shall reasonably  request  relating  to the  foregoing.

substances, 

No  Sub-project  shall:  (i)  include  expenditures  intended  for  a  military  or paramilitary
purpose;  (ii)  include civil  works  for  government  administration  or religious  purposes;
(iii)  relate  to  the manufacture  or  use  of environmentally  harmful  products  (including
pesticides,  ozone-depleting 
tobacco  or  tobacco  products,  materials
containing  asbestos,  arms  and  drugs);  (iv)  relate  to  activities  producing  liquid  or
gaseous  effluents  or  emissions  at  harmful 
levels;  (v)  relate  to  activities  using,
producing,  storing  or  transporting  hazardous  materials  and  wastes;  (vi)  relate  to
logging;  (vii)  relate  to  activities  in  protected  areas;  (viii)  relate  to  fisheries  activities
that  are  not  in  accordance  with  standards  set  by  the  Borrower's  Fishery  Service
Agency;  (ix)  include  the  financing  of government  salaries;  (x)  relate  to  mining  or
excavation  of live  coral  or  coral  reef;  (xi)  include  the  provision  of goods,  works  or
services,  directly  or  through  intermediaries,  by  suppliers  or  contractors,  as  the  case
may be,  who  have  been  declared  ineligible  to  participate  in  the  procurement  of any
Bank-financed  contract,  whether  indefinitely  or  for a  stated  period  of time,  as  a  result
of a  decision  of the  Bank,  and  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of the  decision;  (xii)
finance  land  acquisition;  (xiii)  include  economic  activities  involving  revolving  funds;
(xiv) 
irreversible  and
unprecedented  potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  that may  affect  an
area  broader  than  the  sites  or  facilities;  and  (xv)  include  activities  with  the  scale
beyond  those  specified  in  the  Ministry of Public  Works  and  Housing  Regulation  No.
10,  2008.

include  activities  with  significant,  sensitive,  complex, 

(d) 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  in  respect  of each  Sub-project  in  such  manner
as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the
purposes  of the  Loan.

2. 

Sub-projects  under Part 3.2  of  the Project financed  under Kelurahan Grants.

The  Borrower  shall  make  each  Kelurahan  Grant  for  a  Sub-project  under  Part  3.2  of the
Project  to  a  Participating  Kelurahan  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  Bank  which  shall
include  those  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  this  Agreement,  and
the following  provisions:

(a) 

The  amount  of the  Kelurahan  Grant  shall  not  exceed  the  lesser  of:  (i)  the  estimated
cost  of the  Sub-project  (inclusive  of taxes);  and  (ii)  the  Sub-project  ceiling  set  out  in
the Project  Operations  Manual.

14 of 29 

LN-8636

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Each  Sub-project  shall  be  selected  from  the  Community  Settlement  Plan  developed
by the BKM of the Participating  Kelurahan.

The  requirement  of the Kelurahan  to comply  with the  obligations  set  forth in  Section
I.E.1  (b)  of this  Schedule.

No project  shall  qualify  as  a  Sub-project  eligible  for  financing  out  of the proceeds  of
a  Kelurahan  Grant  until  a  Sub-project  Agreement:  (a)  has  been  entered  into  between
the  Ministry  of Public  Works  and  Housing  and  the relevant  Participating  Kelurahan
(through  BKM),  in  each  case  on terms  and conditions  set  forth in  this Agreement  and
in  the  Project  Operations  Manual;  and  (b)  has  been  reviewed  and  approved  by  the
relevant  consultants.

The  Borrower  shall  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those  of the
Bank,  including  the  right to  suspend  or terminate  the right  of the Kelurahan  to use the
proceeds  of the Loan,  or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or any  part  of the  amount  of the  Loan
then  withdrawn  for the  Sub-project,  upon  the  Kelurahan  failure  to  perform  any  of its
obligations,  including  those  specified  above  in  Section  I.E. 1(b)  of Schedule  2  to this
Agreement.

Each  Sub-project  shall  be a  public  infrastructure  or  equipment  investment project or  a
social  service  project  (which  may  include  emergency  preparedness  or  risk  reduction
to  reduce  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters)  which  is  technically,  financially  and
environmentally  viable,  and  economically  justified  by 
the  number  of  people
benefiting  from it.

Each  Sub-project  proposed  that is  in the  education  sector shall  be compatible  with  the
relevant Kabupaten/Kota  education  master plan, if such plan exists.

Each  Sub-project  that  is  in  the  health  sector  shall  be  compatible  with  the  relevant
Kabupaten/Kota  health master plan,  if such plan exists.

The MPWH  shall  carry out the Sub-projects  under  Part 3.1  of the Project.

the  Local
from 
Each  Sub-project  shall  be  selected 
Government  and meeting  the requirements  set  forth in  the Project Operations  Manual.

the  SIAP  developed  by 

In  order  to  facilitate  the  implementation  of Part  3.1  of the  Project,  the  MPWH  shall
enter  into  a  memorandum  of understanding  with  each  Participating  City  outlining  the
obligations  of each part  regarding  implementation  of activities  in the SIAPs  as  further
described  in the Project  Operations  Manual.

3. 

Sub-projects  under  Part 3.1  of the Project

15  of 29 

LN-8636

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions  and  on
the  basis  of  the  indicators  agreed  with  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operations
Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the  period  of  one  calendar  year,  and  shall  be
furnished  to the Bank not  later than forty  five (45)  days  after the end of the period covered by
such report.

No  later  than  June  30,  2018,  the  Borrower  shall,  in  conjunction  with  the  Bank,  carry  out  a
mid-term  review  of the  Project  (the  "Mid-term  Review"),  covering  the  progress  achieved  in
the  implementation  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish to  the
Bank  not  less  than three  (3)  months  prior  to  the beginning  of the  Mid-term  Review,  a  report
integrating  the  results  of the  Project's  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities,  on  the  progress
achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  during  the  period  preceding  the  date  of such
report,  and  setting  out  the measures  recommended  to  ensure  the  efficient  carrying  out  of the
Project  and  the  achievement  of the objective  of the  Project  during  the period  following  such
date.  Following  the  Mid-term  Review,  the  Borrower  shall  act  promptly  and  diligently  in
order  to  take,  or  cause  to  be  taken,  any  corrective  action  deemed  necessary  by  the  Bank  to
remedy  any  shortcoming  noted  in  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project  in  furtherance  of  the
objective  of the Project.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions.

Without  limitation on  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall prepare  and
furnish  to the  Bank  not  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  after the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,
interim  unaudited  financial reports  for the Project  covering  the quarter,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the  Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with the  provisions
of Section  5.09  (b)  of the General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall
cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for
each  such period  shall be  furnished  to the  Bank not  later than six  months after the end  of such
period.

16  of 29 

LN-8636

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

I. 

2. 

Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services
required  for the  Project  and  to be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured
in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Section  I  of the  Procurement
Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to be  financed
out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set
forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  and  with  the provisions
of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below 
in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts  refer  to  the
corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or
Sections  II,  III,  IV  and V  of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  case  may be.

Particular Methods of  Procurement of  Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2  below,
goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods,  works  and non-consulting  services  for those  contracts  specified  in  the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to the  additional  provisions  set
forth  in  the  Annex  2  to  this  Schedule;  (b)  Shopping;  (c)  Direct  Contracting;  and  (d)
Community  Participation procedures  acceptable  to the  Bank.

Particular Methods  of  Procurement of  Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2  below,
consultants'  services  shall  be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of Quality  and
Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following  methods,  other
than  Quality  and Cost-based  Selection,  may be used  for  procurement  of consultants'  services
for  those  contracts  which  are  specified  in  the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;
(b)  Least  Cost  Selection;  (c)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'  Qualifications;  (d)  Single-
source  Selection  of consulting  firms; (e)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the
Consultant  Guidelines  for  the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants;  and  (f)  Single-source
procedures  for the  Selection of Individual  Consultants.

17 of 29 

LN-8636

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall be subject  to Post  Review  by the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of
Article  II  of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as
made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the table in  paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be  financed
out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the  amounts  of the  Loan  to
each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to be financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in
each  Category.

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures to
be Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Kelurahan Grants  under  Part  3.2 

60,000,000 

of the Project 

(2)  Goods,  works, consultants' 

156,500,000 

services,  non-consulting  services 
and  Training  and Workshops
under  Parts  1, 2,  3.1  and 4  of the
Project

Grant 

Share 

100%  of  Bank 
Kelurahan 
disbursed
100%  of  Bank  Share  of  Total
Lending

of
amount

(3)  Emergency  Expenditures  under 

0 

Part 5 of the Project 

100%  of  Bank  Share  of  Total
Lending

TOTAL AMOUNT 

216,500,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be made:

(a) 

from  the  Loan  Account  until the  Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of the  Front-end
Fee;

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

18  of 29 

LN-8636

(b) 

(c) 

for  payments  made  prior to the date of this  Agreement;  and

under  Category  (3)  until:  (i)  the  Borrower  has  declared  a  disaster,  emergency  or
catastrophic  event  through  the  relevant  national  authority;  (ii)  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower  have  agreed  in  writing  to  address  such disaster,  emergency  or  catastrophic
event  under  Part  5  of  the  Project  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this
Agreement;  and  (iii)  Borrower  has  adopted  an  Emergency  Response  Operations
Manual  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I.B.3  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

2. 

The Closing  Date is  March  31,  2022.

19 of 29 

LN-8636

ANNEX  TO SCHEDULE  2

National  Competitive  Bidding:  Modifications  to  Procedures

The  procedures  applicable  to  the  procurement  of goods,  works,  and  non-consulting  services  under
contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of National  Competitive  Bidding  shall  be  those  of the  Pelelangan
Umum  (Public  Tendering)  and  Pemilihan Langsung /  Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified  Tendering)
methods  as  set  forth  in  the  Borrower's  Presidential  Regulation  No.  54/2010  and  its  subsequent
amendments  as  of  January  16,  2015,  with  the  modifications  set  out  below  in  order  to  ensure
economy,  efficiency,  transparency,  and  broad  consistency  with  the  provisions  of  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3.3  of said  Guidelines.  The  Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana  method  shall  apply  to  such  procurement  up  to  the  financial  thresholds
specified  in  said  Regulation.  In  the event  of a  conflict  between  the Borrower's  procedures  and  these
modifications,  the latter  shall govern.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Procuring  entities  shall  use  the  appropriate  standard  bidding  documents  acceptable  to  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank.  The  provisions  of  Section  1.16  (Fraud  and  Corruption)  of the
Procurement  Guidelines  shall  apply,  and  each  bidding document  and contract  financed  out  of
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  include  provisions  on  matters  pertaining  to  fraud  and
corruption  as  defined  in  paragraph  1.16(a)  of said  Guidelines  and  the  contract  provisions  set
out  in paragraph  1.16(e) of said Guidelines.

Foreign  bidders  shall  not  be  precluded  from  bidding.  If a  registration  process  is  required,  a
foreign  firm  determined  to  be  the  lowest  evaluated  responsive  bidder  shall  be  given
reasonable  time  for  registration.  Foreign  bidders  shall  not be required  to form  a joint venture
or sub-contract part  of the supply  of goods,  non-consulting  services,  and  works  as a  condition
for  submitting  bids  or the  award  of the contract.  Bidding  documents  shall  be made  available
to  all international  bidders.

No preference  of any kind  shall be given to any  bidders.

Under  the  Pelelangan Umum  method,  bidders  shall  be  allowed  at  least  twenty-one  (21)  days
from  the  date  of  the  invitation  to  bid  or  the  date  of  availability  of  bidding  documents,
whichever  is  later,  to  prepare  and  submit  bids;  this  period  shall  be  ten  (10)  days  under  the
Pemilihan Langsung /Pelelangan Sederhana method.

Bids  invited  under the  Pelelangan Umum  method  shall  be submitted  in  one  (1)  envelope  and
evaluated using  post-qualification.

No  bidder  shall  be  rejected  merely  on  the  basis  of a  comparison  with  the  owner's  estimate
and  budget ceiling without the Bank's  prior written  concurrence.

Bid security,  if it  is  required  by  the bidding  documents,  at  the  bidder's  option,  shall  be  in the
form  of  a  letter  of  credit  or  guarantee  from  a  reputable  bank  or  other  reputable  financial
institution  and  shall  without  exception  follow  the  form  provided  for  this  purpose  in  the
bidding  documents.

20 of 29 

LN-8636

8. 

9. 

All  bids  shall  not  be  rejected  and  new  bids  solicited  without  the  Bank's  prior  written
concurrence.

Government-owned  enterprises  in  Indonesia  shall  be eligible to  participate  provided  that they
comply with paragraph  1.10(b)  of the  Procurement  Guidelines.

21  of 29 

LN-8636

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the percentage  of
the  total principal  amount of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date ("Installment
Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date, the principal  amount  of the  Loan repayable  by the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall  be determined  by the  Bank by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment  Share  for  each  Principal
Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts
referred  to in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

15  July 2023 
15  January2024 
15  July 2024 
15  January2025 
15  July 2025 
15  January2026 
15  July 2026 
15  January2027 
15  July 2027 
15  January2028 
15  July 2028 
15  January2029 
15  July 2029 
15  January2030 
15  July 2030 
15  January2031 
15  July 2031 
15  January2032 
15  July 2032 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)
4.18
4.28
4.39
4.50
4.61
4.73
4.85
4.97
5.09
5.22
5.35
5.48
5.62
5.76
5.91
6.05
6.20
6.36
6.45

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment
Date, the  principal  amount  of the  Loan repayable  by  the Borrower  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date  shall  be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the Borrower  shall  repay the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of
such  date in  accordance  with paragraph  I  of this  Schedule.

Any  amount withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be repaid  on each
Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such  withdrawal 
in  amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a

22  of 29 

LN-8636

fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I  of  this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment Dates  falling  on  or after  such date,
such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred
to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule, to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to  any  Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on
the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall  be
repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal
Payment  Date  following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if  at  any  time
the Bank  adopts  a  due  date billing  system under  which  invoices  are  issued  on  or after
the respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of such  sub-paragraph  shall  no
longer  apply  to any withdrawals  made  after  the adoption of such billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an  Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by
multiplying  such  amount 
immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to
the  Conversion;  or  (ii) 
in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the Screen  Rate.

its  currency  of  denomination 

if  the  Bank  so  determines 

in 

23  of 29 

LN-8636

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Bank  Share"  means  the  percentage  agreed  from  time  to  time  between  the  Bank  and
Cofinancier,  and  reflected  in  the  additional  instructions  specified  by  the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  IV.A. 1 of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Bappeda"  means  Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah or  the  regional  development
planning  agency  of a  Province  or  a  Kabupaten/  Kota,  as  the  case  may be,  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Bappenas"  means Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional or  the national  development
planning  board of the Borrower,  or any  successor thereto.

"BKM"  means  Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat, a  Kelurahan  level  board  of community
trustees  with  elected  members  legally  empowered 
to  act  on  behalf  of  the  Kelurahan
community  in  the Participating  Kelurahan,  and "BKMs"  means  more  than one  BKM.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Central  Bureau  of Statistics"  means  Badan Pusat Statistik, the  Borrower's  entity established
pursuant to  Borrower's  law  no.  16  of 1997.

"Central  Project  Implementation  Unit"  means 
accordance  with Section I.A. 1 (b)(ii) of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

the  unit  established  and  operating 

in

"City"  or  Kota"  means  a  municipality,  an  administrative  division  within  a  province  of the
Borrower.

"City  Coordinator"  means  the  consultant  and  its  teams  assigned  to  each  Participating  City
and/or  Participating  Kabupaten  to  manage  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  including
coordination  of Facilitators,  and "City  Coordinators"  means  more than one City Coordinator.

"City Project  Implementation  Unit" or  "CPIU" means  each  City-level  Project implementation
unit established  and  operated  by  each  Participating  City  in  accordance  with  Section  I.A.2(b)
of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  and  "CPIUs"  means more than one  CPIU.

"Co-financier"  means  the  Asian  Infrastructure  Investment  Bank,  a  multilateral  financial
institution  whose  purpose  is  to  foster  sustainable  economic  development,  create  wealth  and
infrastructure  and  other
in  Asia  by 
improve 
productive  sectors.

infrastructure  connectivity 

investing 

in 

24  of 29 

LN-8636

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of  paragraph  16  of  the  Appendix  to  the  General
Conditions,  an  amount  of two  hundred  sixteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  United  States
Dollars to be provided  by the Co-financier  to  assist  in financing  the  Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower
and  the Co-financier  providing  for the Co-financing.

"Community  Settlement  Plan"  or  "CSP" means  each multi-year  slum  development  plan  for  a
Participating  Kelurahan  prepared  by  a  BKM in  accordance  the procedures  and  criteria set  out
in  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and  "Community  Settlement  Plans"  means  more  than one
Community Settlement  Plan.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of Consultants
under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January
2011  (revised July 2014).

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the  Project,  has
experienced  or  would  experience  direct  economic  and  social  impacts  caused  by:  (a)  the
involuntary  taking  of land,  resulting  in:  (i)  relocation  or  loss  of shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or
access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or  means  of livelihood,  whether  or  not  such
person  must  move  to  another  location;  or  (b)  the  involuntary  restriction  of access  to  legally
designated  parks  and  protected  areas,  resulting  in  adverse  impacts  on  the  livelihood  of such
person,  and "Displaced  Persons"  means,  collectively,  all  such  Displaced Persons.

"Emergency  Expenditure"  means  any of the Eligible  Expenditures  set  forth  in the  Emergency
Response  Operations  Manual  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Section I.B.3(a)(ii)  of the
Schedule 2  to the Agreement  and required  for the activities  included  in  Part 5  of the Project.

"Emergency  Response  Operations  Manual"  means  the manual  to be  prepared  and  adopted  by
the  Borrower  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section I.B.3(c)  of the  Schedule  2  to  the
Agreement,  as  the  manual  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section I.B.3  of the  Schedule 2  to the Agreement.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  means  the  environmental  and  social
safeguards  management  framework  dated  March  8,  2016  and  adopted  by  the  Borrower  on
May  31,  2016,  giving  details  of a  program  of  actions,  measures  and  policies  designed  to
maximize  the  benefits  accruing  under  the  Project,  avoid  or  mitigate  any  adverse  impacts
arising  thereunder,  or,  if  such  adverse  impacts  cannot  be  avoided  altogether,  reduce  such
impacts  to  acceptable  levels,  as  the  same  may  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in  agreement
IPPF,  EMP(s),
with  the  Bank,  such  framework 
LARAP(s),  IPP(s) and  PCR Management  Plan(s).

incorporating  among  others  LARPF, 

21. 

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  or  "EMP"  means  an  environmental  management  plan,
acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  consistent  with  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management
Framework  adopted  for  the  purposes  of  a  Sub-project,  and  giving  details  of  the  agreed
actions  and  policies  designed  to maximize  the benefits  of the  Sub-project,  eliminate  or  offset

25  of 29 

LN-8636

any  adverse  environmental  impacts,  or  reduce  such  impacts  to  acceptable  levels,  along  with
the procedural  and  institutional  measures  needed  to  implement  such  actions  and policies.

"Fiscal  Year"  means  the Borrower's  fiscal  year commencing  January  I  and ending  December
31  of the  same year.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the  modifications  set  forth  in
Section  II  of this Appendix.

social  and  cultural 

"Indigenous  Peoples"  means  those  social  groups  in  the  Borrower's  territory  that  have  a
distinct,  vulnerable, 
following
characteristics  in  varying  degrees:  (a)  self-identification  as  members  of a  distinct  indigenous
cultural  group  and  recognition  of  this  identity  by  others;  (b)  collective  attachment  to
geographically  distinct  habitats  or  ancestral  territories  in  the  Project  area  and  to  the  natural
resources  in  these  habitats  and  territories;  (c)  customary  cultural,  economic,  social,  or
political  institutions  that  are separate  from  those  of the  dominant  society  and culture;  and  (d)
an  indigenous  language.

identity,  and 

that  possess 

the 

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  means  the  updated  indigenous  peoples  planning
framework  issued  by the  Borrower  on  March  8,  2016,  giving  details  of a  program  of actions,
measures  and  policies  designed  to facilitate  a  process of free,  prior and  informed  consultation
involving  Indigenous  Peoples  in  the  design  and  implementation  of every  Sub-project,  and to
ensure  that  such Indigenous  Peoples  derive  benefits  from  the  Sub-project  which  are  socially,
economically  and  culturally appropriate,  and  gender  and  inter-generationally  inclusive.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Plan"  means  each  plan  for  a  Sub-project,  meeting  the  requirements  of
the Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework,  that sets  out the  agreed  measures  to:  (a)  involve
Indigenous  Peoples,  through  a process  of free,  prior  and  informed  consultation,  in the  design
and  implementation  of each  Sub-project  in  locations  in  which  such  people  reside  or  make
their  living;  (b)  ensure  that  Indigenous  Peoples  affected  by  the  Sub-project  receive  culturally
appropriate  social  and  economic  benefits;  and  (c)  when  potential  adverse  effects  on
Indigenous  Peoples  are  identified,  those  adverse  effects  are  avoided,  minimized,  mitigated,  or
compensated  for,  in each case  in  a  manner  acceptable  to the  Bank  and the Borrower.
"Kabupaten"  means  a regency,  an administrative  division  of the Borrower.

"Kabupaten/Kota  Housing  and  Settlement  Task  Force"  means 
the  local  government-level
task  force  established  under  a  decree  of  a  Bupati  or  mayor,  as  applicable,  in  each
Participating  Kabupaten  or  Participating  City, or  any successor  thereto.

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

"Kecamatan"  means  a  district,  an administrative  division of a  Kabupaten.

30. 

"Kelurahan"  mean  an urban section  of a  Kecamatan.

31. 

"Kelurahan  Grant"  means  a  grant  made  available  by  the  Borrower  out  of the  proceeds  of the
Loan  to  a  Participating  Kelurahan  for  a  Sub-project  under  Part  3.2  or  Part  5  of the  Project,
and  "Kelurahan  Grants"  means more  than one Kelurahan  Grant.

26 of 29 

LN-8636

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or  "LARAP"  means  a  resettlement  and
rehabilitation  action  plan  for  a  Sub-project  giving  details  of  the  agreed  provisions  for
compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced  Persons  under  the  Sub-
project,  along  with  the  procedural  and  institutional  measures  needed  to  implement  such
agreed  provisions,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  prepared  and  implemented  by  a
BKM,  pursuant to  the Land  Acquisition  and Resettlement  Policy Framework.

"Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  land  acquisition  and
resettlement  policy  framework  adopted  by  the  Borrower  through  MPWH  on  May  31,  2016
setting  forth  the  measures  and  actions  to  be  taken  during  the  implementation  of the  Project
for  the  provision  of  compensation,  rehabilitation  and  resettlement  assistance  to  Displaced
Persons,  as  such  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the Bank  and  the Borrower.

"Local  Government"  means  the government  of a  Kabupaten  or  Kota  as  the context  requires,
and  "Local  Governments"  means  more than one  Local Government.

"Ministry  of  Finance"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for  finance  or  any
successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Health"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for  health  or  any  successor
thereto.

"Ministry  of Home  Affairs"  means  the Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for internal  affairs  or
any successor  thereto.

"Ministry  of Land  and  Spatial  Planning"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  responsible  for  land
or any  successor thereto.

"Ministry  of  Public  Works  and  Housing"  or  "MPWH"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry
responsible  for  public  works  and housing  or  any successor  thereto.

"Participating  City"  means  a  City  meeting  the  eligibility  requirements  set  out  in  the  Project
Operations  Manual  and  selected to participate  in  the Project.

"Participating  Kelurahan"  means  a  Kelurahan  meeting  the  eligibility  requirements  set  out  in
the Project  Operations  Manual  and selected  to participate  in the  Project.

"Participating  Local  Government"  means  the  government  of  a  participating  Kota  or  a
participating  Kabupaten  designated  by  the  Borrower  as  one  in  which  a  Participating
Kelurahan  shall  carry  out  a  Sub-project  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operations  Manual,
than  one  participating  Local
and  "Participating  Local  Governments"  means  more 
Government.

43. 

"PCR  Management  Plan"  means  the  plan  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF  containing
measures  for  avoiding  or  mitigating  any  adverse  impacts  on  physical  cultural  resources,

27  of 29 

LN-8636

provisions 
institutional  capacity,  and  a  monitoring  system  to track the  progress  of these  activities.

finds,  any  necessary  measures 

for  managing  chance 

for  strengthening

44. 

"Perpres"  means  a Peraturan Presiden, a  presidential  regulation.

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

"Pokja  PKP"  means  the  national-level  oversight  body  of  the  Borrower's  national  slum
upgrading  program,  referred  to  in  Section  I.A. 1(a)  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  or  any
successor thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and  Non-
consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated  May  30,
2016  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph  1.25  of
the  Consultant Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall be  updated  from  time  to time  in  accordance  with
the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Management  Unit"  means  the  central-level  Project  management  unit established  and
operating  in accordance  with  Section I.A. 1 (b)(i)  of Schedule 2  to  this Agreement.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  Project  operations  manual,  dated  May  31,  2016
referred  to  in  Section  I.B. 1(a)  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  as  the  same may be amended
from  time  to  time  in  agreement  with  the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any schedules  to  the
Project  Operations  Manual.

"Province"  means  an  administrative  sub-division  of the  Borrower's  territory  at  the  first  level
below  the national  level.

"Provincial  Project  Implementation  Unit"  or  "PPIU"  means  each  Province-level  Project
implementation  unit  established  and  operated  by  each  Participating  Province  in  accordance
with  Section  I.A.2(a)  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and  "PPIUs"  means  more  than  one
PPIU.

"Provincial  Housing and  Settlement  Task  Force"  means  the provincial  government-level  task
force,  established under  a  decree  of a relevant  governor  in  each participating  Province.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management
Framework,  the  Environmental  Management  Plan(s),  LARPF,  IPPF,  EMP(s),  LARAP(s),
IPP(s) and PCR  Management  Plan(s).

"Slum  Improvement  Action  Plan"  or  "SIAP"  means  each  slum  development  plan  for  a
Participating  Local  Government  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  criteria  set
out  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and  "Slum  Improvement  Action  Plans"  means  more
than  one  Slum  Improvement  Action Plans.

28 of 29 

LN-8636

55. 

56. 

57. 

"Sub-project"  means  a  set  of activities:  (a)  under  Part  3.1  of the  Project  as  identified  in  a
Slum  Improvement  Action  Plan;  (b)  under  Part  3.2  of  the  Project  as  identified 
in  a
Community  Settlement  Plan;  or  (c)  under  Part  5  of the  Project  as  agreed  in  writing  between
the Borrower  and  the Bank,  in each case  selected  pursuant  to  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth
in  the  Project  Operations  Manual  or  (in  the  case  of sub-project  under  Part  5  of the  Project)
Emergency  Response  Operations  Manual  and  "Sub-projects"  means  more  than  one  Sub-
project.

"Sub-project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the  relevant
Participating  Kelurahan,  through  the  BKM,  and  the  Ministry  of Public  Works  and  Housing
for  purposes  of  implementing  a  Sub-project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement  and  included  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and  "Sub-project  Agreements"
means  more than one  Sub-project  Agreement.

"Sub-project  Implementing  Entity"  means  as  the  context  requires  any  of  the  following
entities  responsible  for  implementing  Sub-projects  namely, the  Ministry  of Public Works  and
Housing (in  the context  of Part 3.1  of the Project),  Kelurahan  (in  the context  of Part 3.2  of the
Project)  or Coordinating  Agency  (in the context  of Part 5  of the  Project).

58. 

"Total  Lending"  means  the amount  constituted  by the  Cofinancing  and the Loan.

59. 

"Training  and  Workshops"  means  Project-related  training  and  workshops  conducted  in  the
territory  of  the  Borrower,  including  acquisition  and  publication  of  materials,  rental  of
facilities,  course  fees,  and travel  and subsistence of trainees.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the  General  Conditions

The General  Conditions  are  hereby  modified  as  follows:

1 .

In the Table of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section names  and  Section numbers  are
modified  to reflect  the modifications  set  forth in  the paragraphs  below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at  the  rate

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty days  after the  date of the Loan Agreement
to  the  respective  dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge shall  be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on
each  Payment  Date."

29 of 29 

LN-8636

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as  necessary, to reflect the modification  set  forth  in paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following  definition  of
"Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

"19. 
"Commitment  Charge"  means 
Agreement  for the purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

the  commitment  charge  specified 

in 

the  Loan

