LOAN  NUMBER  8590-TN

Loan Agreement

(Tertiary Education  for Employability  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF TUNISIA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated March  3  , 2016

LOAN  NUMBER  8590-TN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  March  3,  2016,  between  REPUBLIC  OF  TUNISIA  ("Borrower")
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").
The Borrower  and  the Bank  hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and conditions set  forth or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of sixty  four  million  three  hundred  thousand  Euros
(C64,300,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to time  through  a  Currency
Conversion in  accordance  with the provisions of Section 2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),
to  assist  in  financing  the project described  in  Schedule  1 to this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%) of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%) per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest payable by the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period  shall be  at a rate equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan,  the interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable  by the  Borrower shall instead  be calculated  as provided in  Section  3.02 (e)
of the  General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment Dates  are  May  I and  November  1 in each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set  forth  on  Schedule 3  to this  Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
termis  of the  Loan  in  order to facilitate  prudent debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to an  Approved  Currency; (ii)  a change of the interest
rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or any portion of the principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa; or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or  (C)  all of the principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate
based on  a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii) the  setting  of limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate  applicable to  all or any portion of the principal  amount of the Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding by the establishment of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on the Variable Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion  requested pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions  and of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower shall carry  out the Project  through  MESRS  in  accordance  with the provisions  of
Article V  of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower  and the Bank shall otherwise agree,  the Borrower shall  ensure that the Project
is  carried  out in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the following:

(a) 

The Borrower has  adopted  the Institutional  Documents for the Project, in form  and
substance  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  established  the  Steering  Committee,  the
PAQ  Committee  and  the  PMU,  with  mandates,  compositions,  staff and  resources
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  as  further  set  out  in  Section  I.A  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

4.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date  ninety (90)  days  after the date  of this  Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

is  its  Minister  of  Development,  Investment  and

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative 
International  Cooperation.

5.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Development,  Investment  and  International  Cooperation
Place Pasteur
1002 Tunis
Republic  of Tunisia

Facsimile:

216  71  799  069

5.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Tunis,  Republic  of Tunisia,  as of the  day  and year first above  written.

REPUBLIC  OF TUNISIA

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Yassine  Brahim

Title:  Ministre du  D6veloppement,
de l'Investissement  et de  la
Cooperation  Internationale

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Marie  Frangoise  Marie-Nelly

Title:  Director  of Operations

-5-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The objective  of the Project  is to  improve the employability  of tertiary education  graduates

and  to  strengthen the  management of higher  education.

The  Project consists  of the following parts:

Part  1:  Improving employability  of graduates

1. 

2. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Provision of Competitive  Sub-grants,  to: (i)  better link higher education  institutions  with the
labor market;  (ii) support entrepreneurial  and  innovative  initiatives  in higher  education  and
research  institutions;  and  (iii) improve  student services  for better employability.

Support  for  a  set  of  activities,  including  tracer  studies  of higher  education  graduates,  the
creation  of  a  centrally  managed  publicly  accessible  online  platform,  the  promotion  of
entrepreneurial  and  innovative  universities,  and  strengthening  of university  observatories:
(i)  to  support  end-of-secondary  and  tertiary  education  students  to  make  more  informed
higher education  study choices  and identify  internship  and job opportunities;  (ii) to  support
higher  education  institutions  to  make  more  informed  choices  about,  in  particular,  which
fields  of study to  offer  and  which  programs  to  improve;  (iii)  to  improve  student  services;
and  (iv) to  support national  policies related to graduate  employability.

Part 2:  Strenptheninp  the manaiement  of hiaher  education

Provision  of  Competitive  Sub-grants 
assurance,  and  support  for young universities.

to  improve  governance,  management,  quality

Implementation  of: 
to  support  the  areas  of  governance  and
management,  quality  assurance  and  performance-based  financing;  and  (ii)  a  pilot scheme
for the  provision of Performance  Sub-grants.

(i)  a  set  of  measures 

Supporting effective  project management,  including through the provision of project-related
workshops,  training  and technical  assistance.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arran2ements

Institutional Arrangements.

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The Borrower shall  carry out the Project,  through  MESRS.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  overall  Project  coordination  through  MESRS,  the  Project
Management  Unit  (PMU),  the Steering Committee  and the PAQ Committee. The Borrower
shall,  at  all  times,  maintain  the  PMU,  the  Steering  Committee  and  the  PAQ  Committee
under  terms  of reference,  composition  and  institutional  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The  Steering  Committee,  headed  by  the  Minister  in  charge  of  Higher  Education  and
Scientific  Research  or  his  representative,  shall  include  those  members  specified  in  the
Project  Operational  Procedures  Manual,  and  shall,  inter  alia,  define  the  strategic
orientation  of  the  Project,  provide  guidance  for  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  and
oversee  progress  in the  implementation  of the Project.  The  Steering  Committee  shall meet
at  least twice  a year.

The PAQ  Committee  shall be  chaired  by one of its members,  shall  include those  members
specified  in the PAQ Manual,  and shall,  inter alia, select proposals for Sub-projects under
Parts  1.1  and  2.1  of the  Project,  which  proposals  shall  be  submitted  to  the  MESRS  for
approval  in  consultation  with  the Council  of Universities.

The PMU shall  include staffing  (including a Project coordinator,  coordinators for the PAQ,
coordinators  for  the  measures  related  to  employability,  governance  and  management,  a
procurement specialist,  a financial management  specialist, an accountant,  a monitoring  and
evaluation  specialist,  and  an  information  and  technologies  specialist),  and  resources
satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  The  PMU  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  execution,
management  and  coordination  of  activities  of  the  Project,  including:  (i)  financial  and
procurement  management;  (ii)  monitoring  and  evaluation;  and  (iii)  such  other  technical,
administrative,  organizational  and financial  functions required under the Project  as set forth
in  the Project  OPMs.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Sub-projects

C. 

1. 

The Borrower  shall ensure  that the  Project  is carried  out in  accordance  with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

For  the implementation  of Parts  1.1  and  2.1  of the  Project,  the  Borrower,  acting  through
the  PMU,  shall  extend  grants  (each  a  "Competitive  Sub-grant")  to  a  Beneficiary  if the
Borrower  (acting  through  the  PAQ  Committee)  is  satisfied  that  the  Sub-project  and  the

-7-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

award  process  of the  Competitive  Sub-grant  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  specified  below,
the  terms,  conditions  and  preparation  and  award  procedures  specified  in  below  and  the
provisions  set forth in the  PAQ Manual,  which shall  include,  inter alia, the following:

the  Sub-project  shall  be  carried  out  by  a higher education  or  research  institution
or student  service  selected by MESRS  in the  Borrower's  territory;

the  Sub-project  shall  be  financially  and  technically  viable  and  shall  meet  the
criteria specified  in the PAQ  Manual;  and

the  Sub-project  shall  comply with the  standards  set forth  in  the  applicable laws  of
the  Borrower relating  to higher education.

2. 

For  the  implementation  of Part  2.2  (ii)  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  extend  grants
(each  a  "Performance  Sub-grant",  and  together  with  the  Competitive  Sub-grants,  each  a
"Sub-grant")  to a  Beneficiary  if the  Borrower  is  satisfied  and  agrees with the goals  of the
performance  contract  as  defined  in  the  Performance  Agreement  Guidelines  which  shall
include, inter alia, the following:

The  Sub-project  shall  be  carried  out by  a  higher  education  or research  institution
or student  service  selected  by MESRS  in the  Borrower's  territory;  and

The  Sub-project  is agreed  between  the  MESRS  and  a higher  education  institution
or research institutions  or student service,  and  shall have  specific goals in  line with
national  strategic  priorities  and  institution-specific  missions  which  shall  be
measured  through agreed  performance  indicators  and  supported  by funding.

3. 

4. 

5. 

The  satisfaction  of each  specific  performance  goal  specified  under  a  Performance  Sub-
grant and the corresponding  disbursement amount shall be verified by a Verification  Agent
prior to making  the relevant  disbursement under such  Performance  Sub-grant.

Proposals  for  Sub-grants  shall  be  prepared,  and  said  Sub-grants  shall  be  awarded  in
accordance  with  the  conditions  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Project  OPMs  or  the
Performance  Agreement  Guidelines,  as  applicable.

The Borrower shall make each  Sub-grant under a  Sub-grant Agreement  with the respective
Beneficiary  on  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank,  which  shall  include  the
following:

(a) 

The  Sub-grant  shall be  in form of a grant.

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  obtain rights adequate  to protect  its  interests  and those  of the
Bank,  including  the  right  to:  (i)  suspend  or terminate  the  right  of the Beneficiary
to  use  the  proceeds  of the  Sub-grant,  or obtain  a  refund  of all  or any  part  of the
amount of the Sub-grant  then withdrawn,  upon the Beneficiary's  failure  to perform
any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Sub-grant  Agreement;  and  (ii)  require  each
Beneficiary  to:  (A)  carry out its  Sub-project  with due diligence  and efficiency  and
in  accordance  with 
financial,  managerial,

economic, 

technical, 

sound 

-8-

environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices  satisfactory 
to  the  Bank,
including  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of, as  applicable,  the  Project  OPMs,
the  Performance  Agreement  Guidelines  and  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines
applicable  to  recipients  of loan  proceeds  other  than  the  Borrower;  (B)  provide,
promptly  as  needed,  the resources  required for the purpose;  (C)  procure the goods,
works  and  services  to  be  financed  out  of the  Sub-grant  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Agreement;  (D)  maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to
enable  it  to  monitor  and evaluate  in  accordance  with  indicators  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  the  progress  of  the  Sub-project  and  the  achievement  of  its  objectives;
(E)  (1) maintain  a financial  management  system  and  prepare  financial  statements
in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  accounting  standards  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  both  in  a  manner  adequate 
to  reflect  the  operations,  resources  and
expenditures  related  to  the  Sub-project;  and  (2)  at  the  Bank's  or the Borrower's
request, have  such financial statements  audited  by independent  auditors acceptable
to the Bank, in  accordance  with consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable
to the  Bank, and promptly furnish  the statements  as so  audited to the Borrower and
the  Bank;  (F)  enable  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to  inspect  the  Sub-project,  its
operation  and  any relevant  records  and documents;  and  (G) prepare and  furnish to
the  Borrower  and the Bank  all  such  information  as the Borrower or the  Bank  shall
reasonably request relating  to  the foregoing.

6. 

D. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

E. 

1. 

2. 

The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under each  Sub-grant  Agreement  in  such manner as
to protect the interests  of the Borrower  and the  Bank and to accomplish the  purposes of the
Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or waive  any  Sub-grant  Agreement  or any of its provisions.

Safeguards.

The Borrower shall ensure  that all terms of reference  for any technical  assistance  or studies
carried  out  under  the  Project  are  consistent  with,  and  pay  due  attention  to,  the  Bank
Policies,  as well  as the  Borrower's  own  laws  relating  to environment  and  social  aspects.

The  Project  will not  finance  any activities  that  would trigger the  application  of the  Bank
Resettlement  Policy.

The  Project  shall  only  finance  minor renovation  works  in  accordance  with  the  eligibility
criteria  and  environmental  and  social  mitigation  measures  set forth in  the Project OPMs.

Annual  Work Plans and Budgets

Each year  the  Borrower  shall  prepare  a  draft  annual  work plan  and  budget for the Project
for  each  subsequent  year  of Project  implementation,  of such  scope  and detail  as the  Bank
shall have  reasonably  requested;  and

The Borrower  shall furnish  to  the Bank,  as soon as  available,  but in  any case not later than
November  30 of each  year,  the annual  work  plans  and  budgets  approved  by the  Steering
Committee,  for  the  Bank's  review  and  approval;  except  for  the  annual  work  plan  and
budget for the  Project for the first year of Project  implementation,  and the  evidence which

-9-

may  be required  for the  implementation  of the  activities  included  in  the draft  annual  work
plan and  budget for such  period which  shall be furnished  no later than  one (1) month  after
the  Effective  Date.  Only  the  activities  included  in  an  annual  work  plan  and  budget
expressly  approved by the Bank  (each an  "Annual  Work Plan  and Budget")  are eligible  to
a financing from  the proceeds  of the Financing.

Training  shall be  carried  out on the basis  of Annual  Work Plans  and Budgets,  which shall,
inter alia, identify:  (a) particulars  of the training envisaged;  (b) the  personnel  to be trained;
(c)  the  selection  method  of the institution  or individuals  conducting  such  training;  (d)  the
institution  conducting  such  training if identified;  (e)  the  purpose  and justification  for such
training;  (f)  the  location  and duration  of the  proposed  training;  and (g)  the  estimate  of the
cost  of such  training.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the Annual
Work  Plans  and  Budgets.

Annual  Work  Plans  and  Budgets  may be  revised  as  needed  during  Project  implementation
subject to  the Bank's prior  approval.

Manuals

(a) 

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
Project  OPMs  and  the Performance  Grant  Guidelines.

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate,  or waive  any of the  Project OPMs  or the  Performance  Grant Guidelines,
or  any provision  thereof.

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  any  of the  Project  OPMs  or  the
Performance  Grant  Guidelines,  and  those  of  this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of  this
Agreement  shall  prevail.

Section  II. 

Project  Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall monitor  and evaluate  the progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the
period  of one  calendar semester, and  shall be furnished  to  the  Bank not later than  45  days
after the  end of the period  covered by  such  report.

Financial  Management,  Financial  Reports  and  Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain  or cause  to be  maintained  a financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09  of the  General Conditions.

3. 

4. 

5. 

F. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

-10-

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

Without limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the Borrower  shall  prepare
and  furnish  to  the Bank  as  part  of the Project  Report,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for the Project covering  the semester, in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the Bank.

The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements  audited  in accordance  with the provisions
of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial  Statements  shall
cover  the period  of one  fiscal year  of the  Borrower.  The audited  Financial  Statements  for
each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank  not  later than  six months  after the  end  of
such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services required  for the  Project  and  to be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be procured  in accordance  with the  requirements  set forth or referred  to  in  Section I of the
Procurement Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and IV  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  and
with the  provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods or methods  of review by the Bank of particular contracts  refer to the
corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or
Sections  II,  III,  IV  and V  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as the case may  be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided in paragraph  2 below,
goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on
the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding procedures.  .

Other  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods,  works and  non-consulting  services for those  contracts  specified
in the  Procurement  Plan:

Limited  International  Bidding;

(a) 

(b) 

National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to  the following  additional provisions:

(i) 

The  eligibility  of  bidders  shall  be  as  defined  under  Section  I  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines;  accordingly,  no  bidder or  potential  bidder  shall
be  declared ineligible for reasons other than  those provided  in  Section  I of
the Procurement  Guidelines.

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(ix) 

(x) 

No  foreign  bidder  shall  be  required  to  submit  a  bid  in  association  with
domestic  firms  as a condition  for bidding.

The bidding documents  shall clearly set out the bid evaluation  process, the
award  criteria  and the bidders'  qualification  criteria.

Bidding  opportunities  shall  be  advertised  on  the  national  procurement
portal  of the National  Observatory  of Public  Procurement  "Observatoire
National des Marches Publics"), with not less than thirty  (30)  days for bid
preparation.

Technical  and  financial  bids  are  always  publicly  and  simultaneously
opened,  and  such  public  bid  opening  shall  take  place  immediately  or
closely  after  the  deadline  for  submission  of bids.  No  evaluation  of bids
shall take place  at the  bid public opening  session.

Prior to issuing the first call for bids,  a draft standard bidding document  to
be  used  under  National  Competitive  Bidding  must  be  submitted  to,  and
found acceptable  by the Bank.

(vii) 

The  procedures  shall  include  publication  of evaluation  results  and  of the
details  of the contract  awarded.

(viii)  Bids  shall  be  evaluated  based  on  price  and  on  other  criteria  disclosed  in
the bidding documents  and  quantified in  monetary terms,  and no domestic
preference  or  any  other  kind  of  preferential  treatment  for  national
companies or for goods of national origin  shall be applied.  The verification
of  the compliance  of bids  to  the  technical  requirements  set  forth  in  the
bidding documents  shall not be limited to  the technical offer of the bidder
which has  offered  the  lowest  price.

The contract shall be  awarded  to the qualified  bidder having submitted  the
lowest evaluated  responsive  bid,  and no negotiation  shall  take place.

Each  bidding  document  and  contract  shall  include  provisions  stating  the
World  Bank's policy to sanction firms  or individuals  which have  engaged
in  fraud  and  corruption  as set forth  in the  Procurement  Guidelines  as well
as the Bank's right to inspection  and  audit;  and

Procurement  under Framework  Agreements  in  accordance  with procedures  which
have been  found acceptable  to the Bank,

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Shopping;

Direct  Contracting;

Force  Account;

-12-

Procurement  from  UN  Agencies;  and

(g) 

(h) 

Community  Participation  procedures  which  have  been  found  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

Particular Methods  of Procurement  of Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph  2  below,
consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of Quality-
and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The following methods,  other
than  Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of  consultants'
services for those contracts  which are  specified in the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based
Selection;  (b)  Selection  under a Fixed Budget;  (c)  Least Cost Selection;  (d)  Selection based
firms;
on  Consultants'  Qualifications; 
(f)  Selection  of UN  Agencies;  (g)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the
Consultant  Guidelines  for the  Selection  of  Individual  Consultants;  and  (h)  Single-source
procedures  for the  Selection  of Individual  Consultants.

(e)  Single-source  Selection  of  consulting 

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall be  subject to  Post Review  by the  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  II  of the General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and such additional  instructions as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May  2006, as revised from  time  to  time by the  Bank  and as
made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set forth  in  the table in  paragraph  2  below.

The following table specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be financed
out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  ("Category"),  the allocation  of the amounts  of the Loan  to
each Category,  and the percentage of expenditures  to be financed for Eligible Expenditures
in  each  Category.

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

-13-

12,000,000 

12,239,250 

160,750 

Category 

(1)  Competitive  Sub-grants 
for  Sub-projects  under
Parts  1.1  and  2.1  of  the
Project

(3)  Goods,  works, 

(2)  Performance  Sub-grants 
for  Sub-projects  under
Part 2.2  (ii)  of the  Project
non- 
consulting  services,  and
consultants'  services  for
the Project
(4)  Front-end  Fee 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in EURO) 
39,900,000 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
90%

100%

100%

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement in  accordance  with
Section 2.07  (b)  of the  General
Conditions

of 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

64,300,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be  made
under Category  (2)  for Performance  Sub-grants for performance based contracts  under Part
2.2(ii)  of the  Project  until:  (i)  the Performance  Agreement  Guidelines  have  been  adopted
by 
and
(ii)  the  Verification  Agent has  been  hired  by the  Borrower pursuant  to terms  of reference
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

the  Borrower 

the  Bank; 

satisfactory 

substance 

form 

and 

to 

in 

2. 

The Closing  Date is  December  31,  2021.

-14-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization Schedule

The following  table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment Dates  of the  Loan  and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have  been fully withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as of the first Principal  Payment  Date; by (b)  the  Installment
Share for each  Principal Payment  Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  Percentage)

May  1, 2021 
November  1, 2021 
May  1, 2022 
November  1, 2022 
May  1, 2023 
November  1, 2023 
May  1, 2024 
November  1, 2024 
May  1, 2025 
November  1, 2025 
May  1, 2026 
November  1, 2026 
May  1, 2027 
November  1, 2027 
May  1, 2028 
November  1, 2028 
May  1, 2029 
November  1, 2029 
May  1, 2030 
November  1, 2030 
May  1, 2031 
November  1, 2031 
May  1, 2032 
November  1, 2032 
May  1, 2033 
November  1, 2033 
May  1, 2034 
November  1, 2034 
May  1, 2035 
November  1, 2035 

1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
3.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%

-15-

May  1, 2036 
November  1, 2036 
May  1, 2037 
November  1, 2037 
May  1, 2038 
November  1, 2038 
May  1, 2039 
November  1, 2039 
May  1, 2040 
November  1, 2040 
May  1, 2041 
November  1, 2041 
May  1, 2042 
November  1, 2042 
May  1, 2043 
November  1, 2043 
May  1, 2044 
November  1, 2044 
May  1, 2045 
November  1, 2045 
May  1, 2046 
November  1, 2046 
May  1, 2047 
November  1, 2047 
May  1, 2048 

2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
2.00%
1.00%
1.00%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have not been fully withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date,  the Borrower shall repay  the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as
of such date in  accordance  with paragraph  1 of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  falling after the date of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by multiplying  the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on or  after such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts

-16-

payable  on  any Principal  Payment  Date, be  treated  as withdrawn  and  outstanding
on the second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank  adopts  a due date billing system  under which  invoices  are issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer apply to  any withdrawals made  after the  adoption of such
billing  system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance to  an Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined  by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the Bank under the Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange rate component  of the Screen  Rate.

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall apply  separately  to the amount  denominated  in each  Loan
Currency, so  as to produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines  on Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption in  Projects Financed  by IBRD  Loans  and  IDA Credits  and  Grants", dated
October  15,  2006 and  revised in January  2011.

"Bank  Policies"  means  the World  Bank's operational  policies  as  set  forth  on the following
website:
http://web.worldbank.ora/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/PROJECTS/EXTPOLICIES/EXTOPM
ANUAL/0..menuPK:64701637-paePK:51628525~piPK:64857279theSitePK:502184,
0O.html

"Bank  Resettlement  Policy"  means the World  Bank's operational  policy OP/BP 4.12  as
set forth  on the  following website:
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/PROJECTS/EXTPOLICIES/EXTOPM
ANUAL/0.menuPK:64701637-pagePK:51628525-~piPK:64857279~theSitePK:502184,
0O.html.

"Beneficiary"  means  either  a  higher  education  or  research  institution  or  student  service
eligible  to  receive,  as  the  case  may  be,  a  Competitive  Sub-grant  or  a  Performance  Sub-
grant for  a Sub-project to  be carried  out under  Part  1.1  or 2.1  of the  Project.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Competitive  Sub-grants"  means  a  grant  made  or proposed  to  be  made  by  the  Borrower
out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  to  a higher  education  or  research  institution  or student
service  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  for  financing  a  Sub-project  through  a  Sub-grant
Agreement  under Parts  1.1  and 2.1  of the  Project,  in accordance  with the  provisions of Part
C. 1 of Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Selection  and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits  and  Grants by World  Bank Borrowers"  dated January
2011  (revised July  2014).

"General  Conditions"  means the  "International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated March  12,  2012, with the modifications  set forth  in
Section  II of this Appendix.

"Institutional  Documents  for the Project"  means 
the Ministerial  decisions establishing the
PMU,  the  Steering  Committee  and  the  PAQ  Committee,  all  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the  Bank, to  be  adopted pursuant  to  Section  4.01(a)  of this Agreement.

10. 

"MESRS"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  in  charge  of Higher  Education  and  Scientific
Research  ("Ministre de I'Enseignement Suprieur et de  la Recherche Scientifique"), or
any  successor thereto.

-18-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

"PAQ" means  the quality  promotion  program  fund  ("Programme d'Appui & la Qualit"),
a mechanism operated  by the  Borrower for the financing of Competitive  Sub-grants  under
Parts  1.1  and  2.1  of the  Project,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the  Bank  and  in
accordance  with the Eligibility  Criteria.

"PAQ  Committee"  means  the  PAQ  committee  referenced  in  Section  I.A.4  of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement  and established  in accordance  with  Section  4.01(a) of this Agreement.

"PAQ  Manual"  means  the operational  procedures  manual  for  the  PAQ,  dated  January  6,
2016,  prepared  by  the Borrower  and  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  setting  forth the procedures
governing  the  management  and  implementation  of  PAQ  and  detailing  the  eligibility
criteria,  the  terms,  conditions  and  procedures  for  the  preparation  and  provision  of
Competitive  Sub-Grants,  as such Manual  may be  amended  from time to time with the prior
approval  of the Bank.

"PMU" means  the project  management  unit  for the  Project within  MESRS,  referenced  in
Section  I.A.5  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement  and established  in  accordance  with  Section
4.01(a) of this Agreement.

"Performance  Agreement  Guidelines"  means  the  document  that  describes  the  rules  and
criteria for the performance-based  scheme,  and which will be developed jointly by MESRS
and  the  higher  education  and  research  institutions  and  student  services  during  the
development  phase  of the performance-based  model  for Tunisia.

"Performance  Sub-grant"  means  a grant  made or proposed to be made by the Borrower  out
of the proceeds  of the  Loan  to a higher education or  research  institution  or  student  service
in  the  Borrower's  territory,  for  financing  a  Sub-project  through  a  Sub-grant  Agreement
under Part 2.2 of the Project,  in accordance  with the provisions  of Section I.C.2  of Schedule
2  to this  Agreement.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits and  Grants by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the Borrower's  procurement plan  for the  Project, dated January
8,  2016,  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph
1.25  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Operational  Procedures  Manual"  means  the  manual  prepared  by  the  Borrower,
dated January  6,  2016,  at all  times satisfactory  to  the Bank, setting  forth:  (i) the respective
roles  and  responsibilities  for  the  implementation  of  the  Project;  (ii)  the  accounting,
financial  management,  auditing  and  reporting  arrangements;  (iii)  the  Procurement  Plan;
(iv)  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  procedures  including  the  selected  indicators  for
measuring  Project  performance;  and  (v)  action  plans  for  improving  the  procurement  and
financial management  capacity within MESRS;  and  all other relevant  provisions necessary
for  the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  as  such  Manual  may  be  updated  periodically  by
agreement  between  the  Borrower  and the  Bank.

-19-

20. 

21. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

(a) 

(b) 

3. 

4. 

"Project  OPMs"  means the Project  Operational  Procedures  Manual  and  the PAQ  Manual.

Steering  Committee"  means  the steering  committee  for the  Project referenced  in  Section
I.A.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement  and  established  in  accordance  with  Section 4.01(a)
of this  Agreement.

22. 

"Sub-grant"  means  a Competitive  Sub-grant  or a Performance  Sub-grant.

"Sub-grant  Agreement" means  a grant agreement  entered  into or to be entered into between
MESRS  and  a  Beneficiary,  providing  for a  Competitive  Sub-grant  or  Performance  Sub-
grant, on terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank in  accordance  with the  provisions
of Section  I.C of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement;

"Sub-project"  means  a  specific  project  to  be  carried  out  by  a  Beneficiary  meeting  the
Eligibility  Criteria  and utilizing the  proceeds  of a Competitive  Sub-grant or a Performance
Sub-grant.

"Verification  Agent"  means  the  verification  agent  hired  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
Section  IV.B. 1 of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby modified  as follows:

1. 

In the  Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are  modified  to reflect  the modifications  set forth  in the  paragraphs  below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank  a  front-end  fee on the  Loan  amount  at the  rate specified
in  the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower shall pay the  Bank a commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance
at the rate  specified in  the Loan Agreement  (the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment
Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the
respective  dates  on which  amounts  are withdrawn by the Borrower from  the  Loan Account
or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on each
Payment Date."

In the  Appendix,  Definitions, all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified,  as  necessary,  to reflect the  modification  set forth  in paragraph  2  above.

The Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a new  paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

"19. 

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

-20-

Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

5. 

6. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of "Front-end  Fee" is  modified by replacing the reference to  Section 3.01  with Section 3.01
(a).

In the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to read  as follows:

"68. 

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant to the Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but  not
limited  to)  any  amount  of  the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end
Fee,  the  Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any
prepayment  premium,  any transaction fee for a  Conversion or early termination of
a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable
upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any
Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the  Borrower."

7. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge  are"  after the  word "interest".

