OFFICIAL
IDOCUfENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8482-FJ

Loan Agreement

(Transport Infrastructure  Investment  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF  FIJI

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  O20 

,2o16

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

, 2016,  between
REPUBLIC  OF 
FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
hereby agree  as  follows:

INTERNATIONAL  BANK 

("Borrower") 

FIJI 

and 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as defined  in the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized terms  used in  this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions or  in  the Appendix
to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  H - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in this Agreement,  the amount of fifty  million Dollars ($50,000,000)  as
such  amount  may be  converted  from time  to time through  a Currency  Conversion
in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  2.08  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to
assist  in  financing  the  project  described 
in  Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement
("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with  Section

IV  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge  payable  by  the Borrower shall  be equal  to  one  quarter of

one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and such  non-
payment  continues  for a period  of thirty  (30)  days,  then the  interest  payable by the
Borrower  shall  instead be calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the  General
Conditions.

The Payment  Dates  are  May  15  and  November  15  in each  year.

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid 
amortization  schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

in  accordance  with 

the

2.06. 

2.07. 

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at  any time  request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa; or  (B) all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa; or  (C)  all of the principal  amount  of the
Loan withdrawn and  outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread  to a  Variable  Rate based on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the setting of
limits  on the Variable  Rate or the Reference  Rate applicable  to all  or any
portion  of the principal  amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and  outstanding  by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  in accordance  with the provisions  of Article  V of the General
Conditions and the Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure  that the Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
2  to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV  - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely  that,  the
Project 
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,

abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability
of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the
Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on  behalf of the  Borrower
and the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

The  Co-financing  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all
conditions  precedent  to  its effectiveness  or to  the  right  of the  Borrower to
make withdrawals  under it (other than the effectiveness  of this  Agreement)
have been fulfilled.

(c) 

The  Project  Administration  Manual  has  been  prepared  and  adopted  in
accordance  with  Section  I.A.2  of the Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement.

5.02. 

The Additional  Legal  Matter consists  of the  following,  namely that  the Subsidiary
Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity in  accordance  with  its terms.

5.03.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the

date of this  Agreement.

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its  Minister  responsible  for  Finance.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Rolalabalavu  House
Victoria  Parade
Suva,  Fiji

Facsimile:

679  3300  834

-4-

6.03 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
and  year first  above written.

, 

-

as of the day

REPUBLIC  OF FIJI

By

By

u  ori  d 

resentative

Name: 

Z 

P od 

-

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  RepreAentative

Name: 

)17

Title:  rt)cAAk%iD,  Ptkry 
-A)z, 
6L1.-

'I(

-5-

SCHEDULEI

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  the  resilience  and  safety  of land  and
maritime  transport  infrastructure  for  users  of Project  roads,  bridges  and  rural jetties  and
wharves.

The Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part 1. Improvement  of Existing  Road and Maritime Sector Assets

Carrying  out  of  Subprojects  for  the  repair,  rehabilitation,  reconstruction  or
upgrading  of selected existing  roads,  bridges  and rural jetties  and wharves.

Carrying out  of Subprojects  for the installation of safety  improvements  on selected
roads,  bridges,  rural  jetties  and  wharves  including  road  safety  furniture  and
replacement  of existing  and/or  installation  of new  streetlights.

Part 2.  Technical  Assistance

Establishing  and  maintaining a  Project  Supervision Team.

Financing  of design and supervision  consultants.

Updating  design  and construction  standards. for roads  and bridges.

Undertaking international  road assessment  program surveys  and road safety audits.

Piloting  the  use  of open  contracting,  including geotagging.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  1. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

1. 

Institutional Arrangements.

Proiect  Steering Comnttee

The  Borrower  shall  establish,  by  not  later  than  three  months  after  the  Effective
Date,  and  thereafter  maintain,  throughout  the  Project  implementation  period,  a
Project  Steering  Committee,  chaired  by  the  Permanent  Secretary  of Finance  and
composed  of, at  a  minimum,  representatives  of the  Ministry  of Finance,  the  Fiji
Roads  Authority  and  other selected  stakeholders,  to  be  responsible  for providing
general  oversight  and  policy  direction,  reviewing  progress  and  the  results  of
periodic  monitoring  and evaluation  of the Project.

Subsidiary  Agreement

To  facilitate  the carrying out  of the  Project,  the  Borrower shall make  the proceeds
of the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  on  grant  basis  under  a
subsidiary  agreement  between  the Borrower and the  Project  Implementing  Entity,
under terms  and conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  ("Subsidiary Agreement").

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such
manner as to  protect the  interests  of the Borrower and the Bank and  to accomplish
the purposes  of the Loan.  Except  as the  Bank shall otherwise  agree,  the Borrower
shall  not  assign, amend,  abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or any of its
provisions.

Implementation  Covenants

Project  Administration  Manual

B. 

I 

2. 

C. 

1. 

The Borrower shall cause  the Project Implementing  Entity to: (a) prepare  and adopt
a Project  Administration Manual  ("PAM") in accordance  with  Section  I.A.2  of the
Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  and  (b)  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance
with  the said PAM  as  shall  have been  so  adopted.

2. 

Coordination  among the Agencies

The  Borrower,  through  its  Ministry  of Finance,  shall  ensure  that  all  ministries,
agencies  and  divisions  involved  in  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  including

local  government  authorities,  give  their  full  cooperation 
implementation  of the Project.

to  ensure  smooth

3. 

Counterpart  Funds

The Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

ensure  sufficient  counterpart  funds  from  its budget  for each  fiscal  year, in
a  timely  manner, for  the efficient  implementation  of the Project;

ensure  adequate  funds  towards  operations  and  maintenance  of  Project
facilities,  through  budgetary  allocations  or  other  means,  during  and after
the Project's completion;  and

the  Borrower  shall  provide,  or  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to
provide,  as  necessary,  respective  counterpart  staff, land,  facilities,  and
funding  required  for timely  and  effective  implementation  of the  Project,
including,  without  limitation,  any funds  required (i) to  fund operation and
maintenance  of Project facilities,  (ii)  to mitigate  unforeseen environmental
or social  impacts,  and (iii)  to meet  any additional  costs  arising  from design
changes,  price  escalation 
in  construction  costs  and/or  unforeseen
circumstances.  The Borrower  shall cause  the Project  Implementing  Entity
to  make  the  resources  thus required  available  on an  annual  basis for  each
fiscal year.

D. 

Anti-Corruption

E. 

1 .

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Environmental  and Social  Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Safeguard  Instruments  and the  Additional  Plans.

Whenever  an  Additional  Plan  shall  be  required  for  any  proposed  Subproject  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of the  ESMF  or the  LARF  as  the case  may  be, the
Borrower  shall  ensure  that:

(a) 

prior  to  the  commencement  of such  Subproject,  such  Additional  Plan is:
(i)  prepared  in  accordance  with the provisions  of the  ESMF or the LARF,
as  the case may  be;  (ii)  furnished  to the  Bank and  Co-financier  for review
and  no-objection  in accordance  with the  PAM;  and (iii)  thereafter  adopted
and disclosed  as accepted  by the  Borrower,  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Bank and  the Co-financier;  and

-8-

3. 

(b) 

thereafter  such  measures  are  taken as  shall  be  necessary  or appropriate  to
ensure  compliance  with the  requirements  of such Additional  Plan.
The  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  abrogate  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  amended,
abrogated  or waived,  the  Safeguard  Instruments  or the Additional  Plans,  unless the
Bank  and  the Co-financier  has  provided  its prior  no-objection  thereof  in  writing,
and  the  Borrower  has  complied  with  the  same  consultation  and  disclosure
requirements  as applicable  to  the original  adoption  of the  said  instruments.

4. 

The Borrower  shall  ensure  that:

all  terms  of reference  for  any  technical  assistance  or  studies  carried  out
under the  Project are consistent  with  the Bank's  environmental  and social
safeguards  policies  and  requirements;  and

in  drafting  any  regulations,  guidelines  or  corporate  procedures  and
carrying out  capacity buildmg  activities under the Project,  due attention is
given  to  said policies  and requirements.

5. 

Without  limitation  upon  its other reporting  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  the
Borrower  shall  collect,  compile  and  submit  to  the  Bank,  as  part  of the  Project
Reports,  consolidated  reports  on  the  status  of  compliance  with  the  Safeguards
Instruments,  the  Additional  Plans  and  other  safeguard  requirements  for  any
technical  assistance,  giving details  of:

results  of the screening  process  for  sub-projects;

measures  taken  in  accordance  with the  said  instruments  and  requirements;

conditions,  if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten 
implementation  of the said measures;  and

to  interfere  with  the

remedial  measures 
conditions.

taken  or  required 

to  be 

taken 

to  address  such

6. 

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  any  of  the  Safeguard
Instruments  or  the  Additional  Plans,  and  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the
provisions of this Agreement  shall  prevail.

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

-9-

Section  U. 

Project  Monitorin2  Reportin2  and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

3 

The  Borrower  shall cause the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  morutor and evaluate
the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions and on  the basis of indicators
acceptable to  the  Bank and  set  forth  in  the PAM.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover
the  period  of one (1)  calendar  quarter,  and  shall be  furnished  to  the  Bank not  later
than  forty-five  (45)  after the  end of the period  covered by  such  report.
The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (a)  not  later  than
July  31,  2017  (or  such  other  date  as  the  Bank  may  agree),  prepare  and  furnish  to
the  Bank  a  mid-term  report,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,
documenting  progress  achieved  in the carrying  out  of the  Project  during the  period
preceding  the  date  of  such  report,  taking 
into  account  the  monitoring  and
evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  paragraph  I  of this  Section  I.A, and
setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to  ensure  the  continued  efficient  carrying
out of the Project  and the  achievement  of its objective  during the period  following
such  date;  and  (b)  review  with  the  Bank such  mid-term report, on or about  the date
one  (1)  month  after  its  submission,  and  thereafter  take  all  measures  required  to
ensure  the  continued  efficient  implementation  of the  Project  and  the  achievement
of its  objective,  based  on  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of the  mid-term
report  and  the Bank's  views  on the  matter.

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports and  Audits

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to maintain a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the
General  Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity to  prepare  and  furnish
to  the  Bank,  not  later  than  forty  five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar
semester,  interim unaudited  financial  reports  for  the Project  covering  the semester,
in  form and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  the  financial
statements  for  the  Project  audited.  Each  audit  of  the  financial  statements  shall
cover  the  period  of one  (1)  fiscal  year  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity.  The
audited  financial  statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be furnished  to  the  Bank
not  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the end  of such  period.

Section  I. 

Procurement

A. 

B. 

C. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  all  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and
consultants'  services required  for the  Project  and to be  financed  out  of the proceeds
of  the  Loan  are  procured  in  compliance  with  the  Co-financier's  Procurement
Guidelines  and 
the
provisions of paragraphs  B  and C  of tus Section  Il.

the  Co-financier's  Consultants'  Guidelines,  subject 

to 

Goods  and  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  Without  limitation  to  the
provision  mentioned  in  paragraph  I  above,  all  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the Project and to be  financed  out of the proceeds of the  Loan
shall  be  procured  by  the  Borrower:  (a)  in  accordance  with  the provisions  set  forth
in  paragraphs  1.8  and  1  10  (c)  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  (b)  otherwise
also  in  accordance  with the  Co-financier's  Procurement  Guidelines.

Consultants'  Services.  Without  limitation  to  the  provision  mentioned  in
paragraph  I  above,  all  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be procured  by  the Borrower:  (a)  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  set  forth  in  paragraphs  1.11  and  1.13(e)  of  the
Consultant  Guidelines;  and  (b)  otherwise  also  in  accordance  with  the  Co-
financier's  Consultant  Guidelines.

D. 

Review  by the  Co-financier of Procurement Decisions

The Procurement  Plan  shall  set forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be subject  to the
Co-financier's  Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post  Review
by  the Co-financier.

E. 

Misprocurement

if 

shall  declare  Misprocurement 

The  Bank 
the  Co-financier  declares
Misprocurement  in  accordance  with  the  Co-financier's  Procurement  Guidelines
and  the  Co-financier's  Consultants'  Guidelines.  "Misprocurement"  means,  for
purposes of this  Loan Agreement  and the General  Conditions, that the procurement
by the  Borrower  of any  contract to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  is
inconsistent  with 
the  Co-
financier's  Consultants'  Guidelines.

the  Co-financier's  Procurement  Guidelines  and 

-11-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as revised
from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable  to this Agreenlent  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in
paragraph  2 below.

The  following  table specifies  the categories of Eligible Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the Loan  to each  Category,  and the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each Category.

Category 
(1) Goods, works,  non- 
consulting 
services,
consultants' 
services
and  Training  for  Parts
1 and  2 of the Project
(2)  Interest  and  other 
charges  on  the  Loan 
accrued  on  or  before 
the  last  Payment  Date 
immediately  preceding 
the Closing Date 
(3)  Front-end  Fee 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 
47,375,000 

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
30%

2,500,000 

125,000 

Amount  payable pursuant
to  Sections  2.04 and  2.05
of this Agreement  in
accordance  with Section
2.07  (c)  of the General
Conditions
Amount payable pursuant
to Section  2.03 of this
Agreement  in accordance
with Section  2.07 (b)  of the
General  Conditions

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

50,000,0000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made  for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that

withdrawals  up  to an aggregate  amount not  to exceed  $10,000,000  equivalent  may
be  made  for  payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  March  5, 2015,  for
Eligible  Expenditures.

2. 

The Closing  Date  is June  30,  2020.

-13-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

Commitment-linked  repayments:

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn as  of the  first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount  of the Loan
repayable  by  the Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment Date shall  be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the Installment  Share  for each  Principal Payment  Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in  paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to which  a Currency Conversion  applies:

Principal Payment Date 

On  each  May  15  and November  15

Beginning May  15,  2021
through  May  15,  2038 

On November  15,  2038 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

2.78%
2.70%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the first  Principal
Payment  Date,  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the extent  that any proceeds of the Loan  have been withdrawn as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined by  the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

-14-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months  pnor  to
any  Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating
the  principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated
as  withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date  of withdrawal  and  shall be repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the date of withdrawal-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if
at any  time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal  Payment Date, the provisions
of such  sub-paragraph  shall no  longer apply to any  withdrawals  made after
the adoption  of such  billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any Principal  Payment Date occurring  during the Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately prior  to  the Conversion by  either:  (i) the  exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance is  denominated  in  more  than  one Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the amount  denominated
in each  Loan Currency, so  as to  produce a separate  amortization  schedule  for each
such amount.

4. 

5. 

-15-

APPENDIX

Section 

.

Definitions

1 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Additional  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  means  a  plan,  to  be
prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to  the  Bank  in  accordance  with  the
ESMF,  setting  out  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring,  and 
institutional
measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training, to  eliminate  any  adverse
environmental  impacts  of  Subprojects,  offset  them, 
reduce  them,  or  enhance
positive  impacts,  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
written  agreement  of the Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any annexes  or  schedules
to  such  plan;  and  "Additional  Environmental  Management  Plans"  means  more
than one such  plan.

"Additional  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Plan"  or  "Additional  LARP"
means  a  plan  to  be  prepared  by  the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to  the  Bank  in
accordance  with  the LARF,  setting  out  mitigation,  enhancement,  monitoring, and
institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building  through  training,  to  carry  out
acquisition  of  land  and  related  assets  under 
the  Project,  compensation,
resettlement,  and rehabilitation  of Displaced Persons,  prepared  in accordance  with
the provisions  of the  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Framework,  as  the same
may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank,
and  such  term  includes  any  schedules  or  annexes  to  such  plan;  and  "Additional
Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Plans"  or  "Additional  LARPs"  means  more
than one  such  plan.

"Additional  Plans"  means  any  Additional  Environmental  and  Social Management
Plans  or Additional  Land  Acquisition  and Resettlement  Plans.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  [BRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Co-financier"  means  the Asian Development  Bank, referred  to in paragraph  15  of
the Appendix to  the General  Conditions.

"Co-financier's  Procurement  Guidelines"  means 
Guidelines'  of March  2013,  as  amended  to date.

the 

'ADB's  Procurement

"Co-financier's  Consultants'  Guidelines"  means  the  'ADB's  Guidelines  on  the
Use  of Consultants  by  Asian  Development  Bank  and  its  Borrowers'  of March
2013,  as amended  to  date.

-16-

9. 

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

"Co-financing"  means  an  amount  of at  least  S 100,700,000  to  be  provided  by  the
Co-financier  to  assist  in  financing  the  Project.
"Co-financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the
Borrower  and  the  Co-financier  providing  for  the  Co-financing,  which  agreement
shall  amend  the  Agreement  dated  December  12,  2014  between  the  Borrower  and
the Co-financier.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  I3RD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised July  2014).
"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of the  involuntary  taking  of
land  and other  assets  under  the  Project  resulting  in  a  direct  economic  and  social
adverse  impact., whether  or  not  said  Displaced  Persons  must  physically  relocate,
had  or  would  have  their:  (i)  standard  of living  adversely  affected,  whether  or not
the  Displaced  Persons  must  move  to  another  location;  (ii)  right,  title,  interest  in
any  house,  land  (including  premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other
fixed  or  movable  asset  acquired  or  possessed, 
temporarily  or  permanently,
adversely  affected;  (iii)  access to productive  assets adversely  affected,  temporarily
or permanently;  or (iv)  business,  occupation,  work or place  of residence  or habitat
adversely affected,  and  "Displaced  Person"  means any  of the  Displaced  Persons.
"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  or "ESMP" means  the  Borrower's
Plan  dated  January,  2015 
for  the  Narata  Bridge  and  Matawale  Crossing
Subprojects  to  be  implemented  in the  first year  of Project  implementation  period,
defining  details  of measures  to  manage  potential  environmental  and  social  risks
and avoid, minimize  and/or mitigate  any adverse  environmental  and social impacts
associated  with  the  said  Narata  Bridge  and  Matawale  Crossing  Subprojects,
together  with  adequate  budget, 
reporting
arrangements  capable  of ensuring  proper  implementation  of, and  regular  feedback
on compliance  with,  its terms;  as said plan  may  be modified  from  time to time with
the prior  written  no-objection  of the  Bank, and  such  term  includes  any  schedules
or annexes  to  such plan.

institutional,  monitoring 

and 

"ESMF"  or  "Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  means  the
Borrower's  framework  dated  January,  2015,  setting  out  the  principles,  standards,
processes  and  tools  to  be  applied  to  assess  potential  adverse  environmental  and
social  impacts  associated  with  Project  activities  and the  ways  to  avoid,  minimize
and/or  mitigate  them,  with  related  public  consultation,  disclosure,  reporting  and
grievance  redress  procedures,  including,  inter alia, the  guidelines,  procedures  and
forms  for  preparing  and  implementing  Environmental  and  Social  Management
Plans, as  said framework  may be modified  from  time to time with  the prior written

no-objection of the  Bank,  and  such term includes  any schedules  or annexes  to  such
framework.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in  Section  II  of this  Appendix.

Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Framework"  or  "LARF"  means 
the
Borrower's  framework,  dated  January, 2015,  setting out  mitigation, enhancement,
monitoring,  and  institutional  measures, 
including  capacity  building  through
training,  to  carry  out  acquisition  of land  and  related  assets  under  the  Project,
compensation,  resettlement,  and  rehabilitation  of Displaced  Persons,  as  well  as
guidelines  and  procedures 
the  preparation  of  Land  Acquisition  and
Resettlement  Plans,  as the  same may be  modified  from  time to  time with the prior
written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  any  annexes  or  schedules
to such framework.

for 

"Land  Acquisition  and Resettlement  Plan"  or "LARP"  means  the  Borrowers  plan
for the Narata  Bridge  and Matawale  Crossing  Subprojects  dated  January  2015 and
acceptable  to  the  Bank and  in  accordance  with the  LARF,  setting  out  mitigation,
enhancement,  monitoring,  and  institutional  measures,  including  capacity  building
through  training, to  carry out  acquisition  of land and related assets  under the said
Narata  Bridge  and  Matawale  Crossing  subprojects,  compensation,  resettlement,
and  rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Persons,  prepared  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Land Acquisition and Resettlement  Framework,  as the same  may
be modified  from  time  to  time  with  the prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and
such  term  includes  any  schedules  or annexes  to  such plan,  and  "Land  Acquisition
and Resettlement  Plans"  or  "LARPs"  means  more than  one such  plan.

"Ministry  of Finance"  means  the Borrower's  Ministry  responsible  for finance,  or
any successor thereto.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by
World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the Borrower's  procurement  plan for  the Project  dated
January  29,  2015, as the same shall be updated  from time to time with prior written
approval of the Co-financier.

"Project  Administration  Manual"  or  "PAM"  means  the  manual  referred  to  in
Section  1.A.2  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  Fiji  Roads  Authority,  established  and
operating  pursuant to  the Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation.

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

-18-

21 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

"Project  Implementing  Entity's  legislation"  means  the  Fiji  Roads  Authority
Decree  2012,  as  amended  to date.

"Project  Supervision  Team"  means  the  team  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of the
Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement.

"Safeguard  Instruments"  means  the ESMF,  LARF,  ESMP,  LARP  and  Additional
Plans.

"Subproject"  means  a  road,  bridge  and/or  rural  jetty  or  wharf  that  meets  the
eligibility criteria  set forth  in the PAM  and to  be financed  by  the Loan under Part  1
of the  Project.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  goods  and  services  required  for  the
participation  of personnel  involved in  training and  educational activities,  workshops
and  study tours  under the Project as  shall  have been approved  by the Bank,  including
travel  and subsistence  costs  for training,  workshop  and  study tour participants,  costs
associated  with  securing  the  services  of  trainers,  rental  of training  and  workshop
facilities, preparation  and reproduction  of training  and  workshop materials, and other
costs  directly  related  to  training  or  education  course,  workshop  or  study  tour
preparation  and implementation,  but  excluding  fees of consultants.

Section  H. 

Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby  modified  as follows:
In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and Section
numbers  are modified  to reflect the modifications  set forth  in the paragraphs below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to  read  as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
the  rate  specified  in  the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on 

(b) 
the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from a  date  sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement  to the respective  dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

-'I9-

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"19. 
Loan  Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.0 1(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

