OFFMA
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8586-BR

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing for the Teresina  Enhancing  Municipal  Governance  and
Quality  of Life Project - Projeto de Melhoria da Qualidade de  Vida e da Gestdo Municipal de
Teresina - PROGRAMA  LAGOAS  DO NORTE - ETAPA  H  Financiamento Adicional)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

MUNICIPALITY  OF  TERESINA

Dated 

J 

201j
, 

0

LOAN NUMBER  8586-BR

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated / 

, 201,  entered  into between  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTIO&  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  and  the  MUNICIPALITY  OF
TERESINA ("Borrower")  for the purpose  of providing  additional  financing  for the Original  Project
(as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby  agree  as
follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

2.05. 

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

The  Bank agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of eighty  eight  million  Dollars  ($88,000,000),  as  such
amount may  be converted  from  time to time through  a Currency  Conversion in  accordance
with the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the
project described  in  Schedule  I to  this Agreement  ("Project").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  per annum  on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

The interest  payable  by  the Borrower  for each  Interest  Period shall  be  at a  rate equal to  the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the
interest payable  by  the Borrower  shall instead  be  calculated as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)
of the General  Conditions.

The Payment  Dates are  May  15  and  November  15  in each year.

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule set  forth in  Schedule  3 to this Agreement.

2.06. 

2.07. 

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time,  in  each  case  with  the  prior no-objection  of the
Guarantor,  through  the  Secretariat  of  National  Treasury  of  the  Guarantor's
Ministry  of Finance,  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the  terms  of the
Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of the  Loan
Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  withdrawn  or
unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis
applicable to: (A)  all or any  portion of the principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn
and  outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;  or (B)  all  or
any  portion  of the  principal  amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from
a Variable  Rate  based on a Reference  Rate  and the  Variable  Spread  to a  Variable
Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa;  or
(C)  all  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  a
Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed
Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or  the  Reference  Rate
applicable  to all or any portion of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding by the  establishment of an  Interest Rate Cap  or Interest Rate Collar on
the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Article IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up to  the
amount  allocated  from  time to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

2.09. 

(a) 

If on  any  given day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure Limit  (as
said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of this  Section),  the
Borrower  shall  pay to  the  Bank a  surcharge  at the  rate  of one  half of one  percent
(0.5%)  per  annum of the Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount (as  defined  in  sub-
paragraph  (b)(i)  of this  Section)  for  each  said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The
Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each
Payment  Date.

(b) 

For purposes of this Section the following terms  have the meanings  set forth below:

(i) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount"  means for  each  day  during  which
the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit, the  product of:

-2-

(A)  the total amount  of said excess; and  (B)  the ratio of all (or, if the Bank
so determines),  a  portion of the  Loan to  the aggregate  amount of all (or  the
equivalent  portions)  of the  loans  made  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower,  the
Guarantor  and  to  other  borrowers  guaranteed  by  the  Guarantor  that  are
also  subject  to  an  exposure  surcharge,  as  said  excess  and  ratio  are
reasonably  determined  from time  to time  by the  Bank.

(ii) 

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the  Bank's
financial exposure  to the Guarantor  which,  if exceeded,  would subject  the
Loan to  the  Exposure  Surcharge,  as  determined  from  time  to time  by  the
Bank.

(iii) 

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total  financial
exposure  to the  Guarantor,  as  reasonably  determined  by the  Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To this  end,  the
Borrower  shall carry  out the Project through  SEMPLAN  in accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  V of the  General Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower  shall ensure that the Project
is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS

4.01. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  the  Loan  has  been
validly  registered  by  the Guarantor's  Central  Bank.

4.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date  of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is the  Mayor of the  Borrower.

5.02.  The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Prefeitura  Municipal  de Teresina
Praga Marechal  Deodoro,  860,  Centro
64000-160  - Teresina, PI
Brasil

Facsimile:
(55-86)  3215-7522

-3-

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 
INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

Telex: 
248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:
1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
year first  above  written.

)  u "  -c 

( 

,as  of the  day  and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

MUNICIPALITY  OF  TERESINA

Authorized  Representative

By

By

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is to  modernize  and  improve  the  management  capacity  of the
Borrower  in  the  financial,  urban,  environmental,  service-delivery,  and  economic  development
fields  and  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  of the  low-income  population  of the  Lagoas do  Norte
Region.

The  Project consists  of the Original  Project as modified  below:

Part 1:  Municipal  Management Modernization, City Development,  and Project Management

Strengthening the  Borrower's  management  and technical  capacity  including by,  inter alia:

consolidating and  improving  the efficiency  of the  Borrower's financial  and  budget
management  and  planning  capacity;

strengthening  the  Borrower's  environmental  management  capacity,  including  the
introduction  of an environmental  licensing and  enforcement  control  system;

reviewing 
services  and  meet development  needs;

the  Borrower's  organizational  administrative  structure 

to  deliver

strengthening  the  Borrower's  procurement  management  capacity;

strengthening  the  Borrower's  institutional  capacity  to  manage  water  supply,
sanitation  and  drainage,  including  the  preparation  of procedures  for  supervising
works,  operate and  maintain  selected  related  infrastructure;

preparing  engineering  designs  for  selected  works  in the Borrower's  territory;

carrying  out Project management,  monitoring  and  evaluation, to  support the  PMU
to  carry  out  the  procurement,  financial  management,  environmental,  social  and
other  requirements  of the  Project;  and

(h) 

strengthening  the  PMU's capacity  in  implementing the  Project.

Part 2: Integrated Urban-Environmental  Development  in the Lagoas do Norte Region

Carrying  out of activities to  improve the  delivery  of basic urban  services  and  the overall

environmental  conditions  in  the  Lagoas do Norte Region,  including,  inter alia:

interventions  to  optimize  water  supply  delivery;

implementation  of wastewater  collection,  transmission  and treatment  systems;

(c) 

execution  of critical urban  macro-and micro-drainage  interventions;

-5-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(a) 

(b) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

actions  to recuperate  the  natural environmental  aspects  of the  region's  lagoon  and
canal  network,  and the  adjacent  banks of the  Parnaiba and Poti rivers;

interventions  in  urban  upgrading,  and the  rehabilitation  and  construction of green
spaces,  parks, and  leisure  and community  spaces;

interventions  to  improve  the  local  road  network,  traffic  flow,  access  and  safety  in
the  region;  and

undertaking  resettlement  of beneficiary  families  from  areas  of risk and  from  other
areas  of Project  intervention,  and  implementing  housing  improvements  for  other
eligible  households.

Part 3:  Social  and Economic  Development  in the Lagoas do  Norte  Region

Carrying  out of complementary  interventions  to  Part 2  of the  Project, including,  inter alia:

actions to strengthen  community associations  and other community groups in order
to improve the access  of eligible families to the  Project's social  programs,  cr&ches,
basic  health  and  education  services,  etc.;

undertaking of environmental  and  sanitary  education  and  promotion  activities;

promotion  of employment  and  income  creation  programs;

renovation,  expansion  and  construction of community  facilities;

promotion  and  facilitation  of  community  mobilization  and  participation  in  all
aspects  of the  Project;  and

actions  and activities  aimed at preventing  violence in Lagoas do Norte Region  and
targeting  selected  vulnerable  groups,  and  strengthening the  Borrower's capacity to
manage  citizen  security programs.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

At  all  times  during  the  execution  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  maintain,  until
completion  of the  Project:

(a) 

a  unit  within  SEMPLAN,  to  be  responsible  for  the  overall  coordination  and
implementation  of  the  Project  (the  "PMU"),  such  PMU  to  maintain  staffing,
functions  and  responsibilities  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  as  set  forth 
in  the
Operational  Manual,  including  inter alia, the following  responsibilities:

overall  planning,  coordination  and monitoring  of Project activities;

carrying out of Project procurement  and  contracting  of the required works,
goods and  consultants'  services;

elaboration  of the  annual  operational  plans;

carrying  out of the  financial  management  of the  Project;

preparation  and  delivery  to  the  Bank of:  (A)  disbursement  requests;  and
(B)  Project  information  and  Project  management  reports  in  accordance
with the  format established  in the Operational  Manual;  and

(vi) 

provision  of  assistance  and  documentation 
auditors;  and

to  external 

independent

(b) 

a Project  Steering Committee (or "PSC"), presided by the Borrower's  Mayor or its
designated  representative,  with  the  overall  responsibility  for  providing  policy
oversight  and guidance  for the  implementation  of the  Project and  with powers  and
composition  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual.  The
PSC shall be responsible, inter alia, for consulting  on, acknowledging,  and making
recommendations  on,  as  the case  may be:

strategic  guidelines  for the implementation  of the  Project;

inter-institutional  coordination  of strategic  alliances  with  stakeholders;

the  annual  operation  plans  for the Project;  and

the  annual  auditing  reports of the Project.

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

-7-

Operational Manual

B. 

1. 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  5.01  of  the  General  Conditions,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of a
manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  (the  "Operational  Manual"),  which  shall  detail  the
procedures  and  guidelines  for  the  execution,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  Project,
including,  inter alia:

the functions,  responsibilities,  structure  and  composition of the  PMU;

the  procedures  for  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  services,  as  well  as  for
financial  management  and  audits  of the  Project;

the  Performance  Indicators;  and

the  Environmental  and  Social  Assessment  and 
Framework.

the  Resettlement  Policy

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

2. 

The Operational  Manual may  be amended by the Borrower from time to time with the prior
In  the  case  of any  conflict  between  the  terms  of the  Operational
approval  of the  Bank. 
Manual  and  those of this Agreement, the  terms of this Agreement  shall prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

D. 

1 .

2. 

The  Borrower  shall ensure  that the  Project is  carried  out  in accordance  with  the provisions
of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Safeguards:  Environmental  and Social  Provisions

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Section  5.01  (b)  of the  General  Conditions,  the
the  provisions  and
Borrower  shall  carry  out 
recommendations  of the  Environmental  and  Social  Assessment, the  respective  ESMP,  the
Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  the  resulting  Resettlement  Plans  and  the  procedures
outlined  in  the Operational  Manual,  when  applicable.

in  accordance  with 

the  Project 

Prior  to  initiating  bidding  procedures  for  works  under  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall,
when  applicable,  submit  to  the  Bank,  for  its  review and  approval  a  Resettlement  Plan  for
the  population  affected  by  the  relevant  works,  to  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  the
Resettlement  Policy Framework  and  such  other information  as the  Bank shall  reasonably
request,  including the  requisite  environmental  licensing;  and  prior  to  initiating  works  in
in  a  manner
selected  Project  areas, 
satisfactory  to the  Bank.

implement  the  respective  Resettlement  Plan 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that any  contractors  that  will  carry  out  civil  works  under  the
Project shall perform  their work in accordance  with the technical,  environmental  and social

-8-

practices  for the  Project,  as  set  forth  in  the  Environmental  and  Social  Assessment  and
respective  ESMP.

4. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  a  dam  safety  panel  with  experts  and  terms  of
reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  review  the  detailed  engineering
designs  for  works  for  the  flood  control  dike  along  the  Parnaiba river  under
Part 2  (d)  of the  Project prior to commencement  of works.

(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  contractors  that  will  carry  out  said  works  shall
follow the  safety  standards  and  recommendations  of the dam  safety  panel referred
to  in paragraph  (a)  above.

Section II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project
Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and
on  the  basis  of  the  Performance  Indicators,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual.  Each Project  Report shall  cover the period of one calendar  semester,
and  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  sixty  days  after  the  end  of the  period
covered  by such  report.

Financial Management, Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to  be maintained  a  financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  the Borrower  shall prepare
and  furnish to  the  Bank,  as  part of the  Project Report,  not later than  two  months  after the
end  of each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project  covering
the  quarter,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The Borrower shall have  its Financial  Statements audited  in accordance  with the provisions
of Section  5.09 (b)  of the General  Conditions.  Each  audit of the Financial  Statements shall
cover the  period of one  fiscal  year of the  Borrower.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for
each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank  not later  than six  months  after the  end  of
such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

General

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall
be  procured  in accordance  with  the requirements  set  forth or referred  to  in  Section  I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this Section.

-9-

2. 

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set  forth or referred to  in  Sections  I and IV  of the Consultant Guidelines  and
with  the  provisions  of this Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods or methods of review  by the  Bank of particular contracts  refer to the
corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II and  III  of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  or
Sections  II, III,  IV  and V  of the  Consultant  Guidelines, as the  case  may be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided in  paragraph  2  below,
goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on
the  basis of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following table specifies  the methods of procurement, other than International  Competitive
Bidding,  which  may  be  used  for  goods,  works  and  non-consultant  services.  The
Procurement  Plan  shall specify  the circumstances  under which  such  methods may  be used.

Procurement Method

(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to  the following  additional  procedures:

(i) contracts  shall  be  awarded  to  the  bidder whose  bid  has  been  determined  to  be
the  lowest  evaluated  bid,  such  evaluation  to  be  based  on  price  and,  whenever
appropriate,  to  also  take  into  account  factors  similar  to  those  referred  to  in
paragraph  2.52  of the Guidelines,  provided, however,  that the  bid evaluation shall
always  be  based  on  factors  that can  be  quantified  objectively,  and  the  procedure
for such  quantification  shall be disclosed  in the  invitation  to bid;

(ii)  whenever  required  by  the  Bank,  the  invitation  to  bid  shall  be  advertised  in  at
least one  newspaper  of national circulation  in Brazil;

(iii)  the  arrangements,  under the  invitation  to  bid,  for joint-ventures  (cons6rcios)
of Brazilian  and  foreign  firms  shall  be  approved  in  advance  by the  Bank  in  each
case;

(iv)  the  invitation  to  bid  shall  not  establish,  for  purposes  of acceptance  of bids,
minimum  or maximum  amounts for  the contract  prices;  and

(v)  the  purchaser  shall  not,  without the  Bank's  prior  approval,  issue  any  change
order  under  a  contract  which  would  increase  or  decrease  by  more than  15%  the
quantity  of goods  (and  related  services)  without  any  change  in  the  unit prices  or
other terms  and  conditions  of sale.

(b)  Shopping  (including,  in  respect  of  goods  and  non-consultant  services,  pregdo
eletr6nico set forth  in the  Guarantor's  Law No.  10520,  of July  17,  2002).

- 10-

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of  Consultants'  Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except as otherwise  provided  in paragraph  2  below,
consultants'  services  shall be  procured  under contracts awarded  on the basis  of Quality  and
Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services.  The  following table specifies
the  methods  of procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  which  may  be
used for consultants'  services.  The Procurement Plan  shall specify the circumstances  under
which  such  methods may  be  used.

Procurement Method

(a)  Selection  Based  on the Consultants'  Qualifications  (CQS)

(b) Single-Source  Selection  (SSS)

(c)  Selection  under a Fixed Budget  (FBS)

(d) Least-Cost  Selection  (LCS)

(e)  Procedures  set forth in Paragraphs  5.2.  and  5.3  of the  Consultant Guidelines  for the

Selection  of Individual 

Consultants

(f)  Quality-Based  Selection

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to  the  Bank's
Prior  Review.  All  other contracts  shall  be subject  to Post  Review by the  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with the  provisions
of:  (a)  Article  II  of the  General  Conditions;  (b)  this  Section;  and  (c)  such  additional
instructions  as the Bank may specify by notice  to the Borrower (including  the "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by
the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to
finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as set  forth  in the table  in paragraph  2  below.

The following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be financed
out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  ("Category"),  the allocation  of the  amounts of the Loan  to
each  Category, and the  percentage  of expenditures  to be  financed for  Eligible Expenditures
in  each Category.

A. 

1. 

2. 

- 11 -

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1) Goods, works,  non-consulting
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training,  and  Operating  Costs under
Part  I of the  Project
(2)  Goods,  works,  non-consulting
services,  consultants'  services,  and 
Operating  Costs  under Part 2  of the
Project
(3) Goods,  works,  non-consulting
services,  consultants'  services, 
Training,  and  Operating  Costs  under
Part 3  of the  Project
(4)  Front-end  Fee 

(5) Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate 
Collar  premium 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

For the purposes  of this table:

7,100,000 

74,800,000 

5,880,000 

220,000 

0 

88,000,000

100%

100%

100%

Amount payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant to
Section  2.08  (c)  of this
Agreement

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  term  "Non-consulting  services"  means  the  reasonable  expenditures  (none  of
which  would have  been  incurred absent the Project),  incurred  by the  Borrower  for
the  implementation,  management,  coordination  and  supervision  of  the  Project,
including:  (i) logistics for workshops  and training courses;  (ii)  topographic  surveys
and  mapping; (iii)  undertaking  and  updating municipal  cadastres;  (iv)  printing and
publishing  services;  and  (v)  community  socio-environmental  mobilization  events;

the  term  "Operating  Costs"  means  the  following  management  and  supervision
costs,  to the extent  they would not have been  incurred absent the Project,  including,
inter alia: maintenance  of office  space,  furniture  and  equipment;  rental  of office
space;  communication  costs;  and

the term  "Training" means expenditures,  other than those for consultants'  services,
incurred  in  connection  with  the  carrying  out  of training,  including,  inter  alia,
trainers'  fees,  logistics,  materials,  and  the  reasonable  and  related  travel  costs
(including  transportation,  lodging,  and  per diem),  but  excluding  items  which  can
be  procured  as goods, non-consulting  services  or consultants'  services.

- 12  -

B. 

1. 

2. 

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be  made for
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  sixteen  million  Dollars  ($16,000,000)  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior to this date  but on or after March  1, 2015,  for Eligible  Expenditures.

The  Closing  Date  is  December  15,  2021.  The  Bank  will  only  grant  an  extension  of the
Closing Date after the  Guarantor's Ministry of Finance  has informed the Bank that  it agrees
with such  extension.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The following  table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment Dates of the  Loan and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the Loan have  been fully  withdrawn  as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
the  Bank  by  multiplying:
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by 
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each  Principal  Payment Date, such repayable  amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

November  15,  2021 
May  15,  2022 
November  15,  2022 
May  15,  2023 
November  15,  2023 
May  15,  2024 
November  15,  2024 
May  15,  2025 
November  15,  2025 
May  15,  2026 
November  15,  2026 
May  15,  2027 
November  15,  2027 
May  15,  2028 
November  15,  2028 
May  15,  2029 
November  15,  2029 
May  15,  2030 
November  15,  2030 
May  15,  2031 
November  15,  2031 
May  15,  2032 
November  15,  2032 
May  15,  2033 
November  15,  2033 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a  Percentage)
0.10000%
0.10000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.75000%
0.75000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.50000%
3.75000%
3.75000%
3.75000%
3.75000%
3.75000%

- 14  -

Principal Payment  Date 

May  15,  2034 
November  15,  2034 
May  15,  2035 
November  15,  2035 
May  15,  2036 
November  15,  2036 
May  15,  2037 
November  15,2037 
May  15,  2038 
November  15,  2038 

May  15,  2039 
November  15,  2039 
May  15,  2040 
November  15,2040 
May  15,  2041 
November  15,  2041 

May  15,  2042 
November  15,  2042 

May  15,  2043 
November  15,  2043 

May  15,  2044 
November  15,  2044 

May  15,  2045 
November  15,  2045 

May  15,2046 
November  15,2046 

May  15,  2047 
November  15,  2047 

May  15,  2048 
November  15,2048 

May  15,  2049 
November  15,  2049 
May  15,  2050 
November  15,  2050 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)
3.75000%
3.75000%
3.75000%
3.75000%
3.75000%
1.25000%
1.25000%
1.25000%
1.25000%
1.25000%
1.25000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
1.00000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.50000%
0.20000%
0.20000%
0.20000%
0.20000%
0.20000%
0.15000%
0.15000%

-15-

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as of the first  Principal Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date, the  Borrower  shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  as
of such  date in accordance  with paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted, as  necessary, to  deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan  withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on  the  second Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date  following the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the Bank adopts  a due  date billing system under which  invoices are  issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after the adoption  of such
billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date  occurring during the Conversion Period,  shall be determined  by the Bank  by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i) the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply separately to  the amount  denominated  in each Loan
Currency,  so  as to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

- 16-

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines  on  Preventing and  Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006 and  revised  in  January  2011.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Consultant Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Selection and  Employment of Consultants
under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA Credits  and  Grants  by World  Bank  Borrowers"  dated  January
2011  (revised  July  2014).

"ESMP" means  "Environmental  and Social  Management  Plan",  as referred  to  in paragraph
5 below.

"Environmental  and  Social  Assessment"  means the  Borrower's  assessment  of the  Project
environmental  and  social  impacts,  dated  November  2014,  including  provisions  regarding
protection of natural  habitats,  protection of physical  cultural  resources  and  safety  of dams,
and  including  an  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan  with  recommended
mitigation  measures  for  each  negative  impact  identified,  as  such  plan  may  be  amended
from  time  to time with  the prior  approval  of the Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the modifications  set  forth  in
Section  II of this  Appendix.

"Lagoas do Norte Region"  means  the  northern  part  of the  Borrower's  territory,  including
the  neighborhoods  of Acarape,  Matadouro,  Alvorada,  SAo  Joaquim,  Nova  Brasilia,  Poti
Velho,  Mafrense,  Olarias,  Aeroporto, 
Itaperu,  Alto  Alegre,  SAo  Francisco  and
Mocambinho.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  dated  February  2008, as  the same  may  be  amended  from time to  time with the
agreement  of the  Bank.

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  Loan  Agreement  between  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower  dated July  24, 2008,  Loan No.  7523-BR, as  amended.

"Original  Project"  means the  Project  described  in  the  Original  Loan  Agreement.

"Parnaiba" and "Poti" are  rivers  in the  Guarantor's  territory.

"Performance  Indicators"  means  the indicators  to be  used  in the monitoring  and evaluation
of the  Project.

- 17-

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

"PMU" means  the  Unidade de Gerenciamento do Programa Lagoas do Norte-UGP, the
unit referred  to  in Section  I.A. I (a)  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement,  established  pursuant
to  the Borrower's  Decree No.  6.028,  dated  July 2,  2004,  as annually  renewed.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011  (revised  July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
October,  27,  2015  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to
time  in  accordance  with the provisions  of said  paragraphs.

"PSC" means  the "Project  Steering Committee",  the committee  referred  to in  Section  I.A. I
(b) of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.

"Resettlement  Plan"  means  any  plan  prepared  following  the  requirements  of  the
Resettlement  Policy  Framework  and  approved by  the  Bank.

"Resettlement  Policy Framework"  means the Borrower's  document  dated November  2014,
defining  the procedures  for the  involuntary resettlement  of the  population  in  the event  it  is
required  in  connection  with  the  activities  to  be  carried  out  under  the  Project,  as  said
framework  may  be amended  form time  to  time with the  Bank's prior  approval.

19. 

"SEMPLAN"  means  Secretaria Municipal  de  Planejamento  e  Coordenaq.9o,  the
Borrower's  Secretariat  of Planning  or  its successor  or successors  thereto.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the  General  Conditions

The General  Conditions are hereby  modified  as follows:

1. 

In  the Table  of  Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are modified  to reflect  the  modifications  set  forth  in the  paragraphs  below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at the  rate

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower  shall pay the Bank a  commitment charge  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement to  the respective  dates on  which  amounts  are withdrawn  by  the Borrower  from
the Loan  Account or  cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall be  payable  semi-annually
in arrears  on  each  Payment  Date."

- 18-

3. 

4. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are modified, as necessary,  to reflect  the modification  set  forth  in  paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of  "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering  the subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

"19. 
Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section  3.0 1(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

- 19  -

