No  22.16

LOAN  NUMBER  8551-CL

Loan Agreement

(Social Inclusion  for Shared  Prosperity Development Policy  Loan)

THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

_ 

_, 

201

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

11 2 2 . 1 6

LOAN AGREEMENT

' 

, 201 

Agreement  dated  t1AC4 

, entered  into  between  the  REPUBLIC
OF  CHILE ("Borrower")  and  the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the  purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the  Program  (as
defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).  The Bank  has  decided  to  provide this  financing  on
the  basis,  inter alia, of:  (a)  the  actions  which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under the  Program
and  which  are  described  in  Section  I of  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower's
maintenance  of  an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank
therefore  hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees to  lend to the  Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set forth  or referred
in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  million  United  States  Dollars
to 
($100,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in accordance  with the provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program  in
accordance  with  Section  II  of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall be at  a rate  equal  to the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid when  due  and  such non-payment  continues  for a period of thirty (30)  days, then the
interest  payable  by the  Borrower shall  instead be  calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)
of the General  Conditions.

-2-

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates  are  April  15  and  October  15  in each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to  an Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest
rate  basis  applicable  to: (A)  all or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice versa; or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread, or vice versa; or (C)  all  of the principal amount  of the  Loan withdrawn and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate applicable  to all  or any  portion of the principal amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding by the  establishment  of an  Interest Rate Cap  or Interest
Rate  Collar on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion  requested pursuant  to paragraph (a)  of this Section that  is accepted
in  the  General
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined 
Conditions,  and  shall  be effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be  paid out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  II of
Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

2.09  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish to the  Bank such  information relating to the provisions of this Article II  as the Bank
may, from  time  to time,  reasonably request.

No2  2.16

-3-

ARTICLE  III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  Program  and  its  implementation.  To  this
end,  and  further to  Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  from time  to  time,  at the  request  of either  party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress  achieved  in  carrying out the  Program;

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank shall  reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall promptly  inform the  Bank  of any  situation  that would  have the
effect  of materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or  any  action  taken
under the  Program  including  any action  specified  in  Section  I of Schedule  I to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event of Suspension  consists of the  following, namely,  that  a situation  has
arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a  significant  part of it, will  be
carried  out.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the following, namely,  that the Bank
is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out the  Program  and
with  the  adequacy of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy framework.

5.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  eighty (180)  days  after the date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance
Teatinos  120
Santiago,  Chile

-4-

6.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at 
and  at  S 
Borrower.

- ri o 

?A) 
,  C),  (  E 
,A 

, on, 
,  on  H-A€c/4  R 

f 

-

Z4\, 
/ 

on  behalf of the  Bank
,  on  behalf  of  the

RU£IEUJC  OF 

LE 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  kepresentative 

Authorized  Representative

By

Name:  ZM'6C  1/4htA  2dC4hO 

Name:  ALäa.T 2X 

1&-{(o-Z

Title:  yt'/5+c-p  OF 

I'Ak>J 

Title:  M  0)YiYl\l 

.ht\4J(U

Countersigned on  behaj 
Treas  er Gener 
Chile 

epblic 

Countersigned  on  behalf of the
Controller General  of the Republic  of
Chile

SCAL 

Name: 

Byý 

Title: 

e 

sent»tiyo 

By 

| 

JRCf kl  -MT  TY17  M-T
94k er  9 

~ 

ngi

A 

Name: 
Title:  Com v 

gealev-
lwy 

1 1 '; 20  2016

k 

l-

42 2 .16

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Program

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Actions  Taken  Under  the  Program.  The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under  the
Program  include  the following:

The  Borrower  has  enacted  the  Inclusion  Law No.  20845  published  in  the  Official  Gazette
on  June  08,  2015  (Ley  de  Inclusidn  Escolar que  Regula  la  Admisi6n  de  los  y  las
Estudiantes,  Elimina  el  Financiamiento  Compartido  y  Prohibe  el 
lucro  en
Establecimientos Educacionales que  Reciben  Aportes  del  Estado), to  improve  social
integration  and  expand  schooling  options  for  all  students  within  the  mandatory  levels  of
schooling  (primary  (Bdsica) and  secondary  (Media) education).

The  Borrower  has  created  PACE  to  support  the  transition  of highly  vulnerable  students
from  upper secondary  education  to tertiary  education,  as  evidenced  by:  (a) the  issuance of
MINEDUC's  Ministerial  Resolution No.  680 of January  29, 2015  creating  PACE;  and  (b)
Partida 09,  Chapter  01,  Program  03,  Subtitulo 24,  Item  03, Asignaci6n 905  "Programa de
Acceso a la Educaci6n Superior" of the  2015  Public  Sector Budget Law,  assigning  budget
for PACE's  implementation.

The  Borrower  has  expanded  the  Tertiary  (Superior) Education  Scholarship  Program  for
students  that  belong  to  the  seven  lowest  income  deciles  to  promote  equitable  access  for
tertiary  education,  as  evidenced by Partida 09,  Chapter  01,  Program  30, Subtitulo 24,  Item
03,  Asignaci6n 200 "Becas Educacidn Superior" of the  2015  Public  Sector  Budget  Law,
describing  the expansion  of the  Program and  assigning  budget for  its expansion.

The  Borrower  has  provided  resources  and  assigned  budget  to  state  universities  for
institutional  strengthening,  research  and  innovation,  teachers  development  and  outreach
activities to  improve  the conditions  and enhance  quality of tertiary  education,  as  evidenced
by  Partida 09,  Chapter  01,  Program  30,  Subtitulo 24,  Item  03,  Asignaci6n 807  Convenio
Marco Universidades Estatales of the 2015  Public  Sector Budget  Law.

the  measurement  and  monitoring  of  poverty  by:  (i)
The  Borrower  has  enhanced 
implementing  and  releasing  a  revised  official  methodology  for  measuring  monetary
poverty;  and  (ii)  launching  and  implementing  an  official  multidimensional  poverty  index
(MPI),  as evidenced by:  (a)  Oficio No.  888  of March  30,  2015  from  MDS  to  the President
of the  Special  Mixed  Committee  of Budgeting  of the  Borrower's Congress,  informing  the
release  of the new methodology  for measuring  monetary  poverty and  providing a  report on
the  development,  implementation  and  dissemination  of  the  MPI;  and  (b)  Partida 21,
Chapter  09,  Program  01,  Subtitulo  24,  Item  03,  Asignacidn  330  Encuesta  CASEN,
assigning  budget  for  the  implementation  of enhanced  measurements  and  monitoring  of
poverty.

-6-

6. 

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

1. 

The  Borrower  has  designed  a  new  allocation  model  for  benefits  and  social  services  to
improve  targeting for  social  programs,  as evidenced  by:  (i) Oficio No.  1244  of March  30,
2015  from  MDS  to  the  President  of the  Special  Mixed  Committee  of Budgeting  of the
Borrower's Congress, describing the effect of the new allocation  model  in the  improvement
of the targeting  of social  programs;  and  (ii) Partida 21,  Chapter  01,  Program  01,  Subtitulo
24,  Item  03,  Asignaci6n 341  Sistema de Apoyo  a la Selecci6n de Beneficios Sociales, of
the 2015  Public  Sector  Budget Law,  assigning budget  for the  support of the new allocation
model  for benefits  and  social  services.

Section  II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice to the  Borrower.

Allocation  of  Loan Amounts.  The  Loan  (except  for  amounts required  to  pay  the  Front-
end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the  Borrower  may  make
withdrawals  of the  Loan proceeds.  The  allocation  of the amounts  of the  Loan to  this  end
is  set  out in  the table below:

Allocations 

(1)Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
(2)  Front-end Fee 
(3) Interest  Rate  Cap or Interest  Rate  Collar  premium
pursuant  to Section  2.08(c)  of this Agreement 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount  of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)
99,750,000
250,000

0
100,000,000

Withdrawal Tranche  Release  Conditions.  No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of the  Single
Withdrawal  Tranche  unless the  Bank  is satisfied:  (a)  with  the  Program  being  carried  out
by  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

Deposits  of Loan  Amounts.  Except  as the  Bank  may otherwise  agree:

All  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an  account
designated  by the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to the  Bank;  and

-7-

No22.  16

2. 

E. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  upon  each  deposit  of  an  amount  of  the  Loan  into  this
account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget  management
system,  in a  manner acceptable  to  the Bank.

Excluded  Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds  of the Loan shall not
be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that an
amount  of  the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice  from the Bank, refund an  amount equal to the amount
of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to  the  Bank  upon  such  request  shall be
cancelled.

F. 

Closing  Date.  The  Closing Date  is  December  30,  2016.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization  Schedule

The  Borrower  shal  repay  the principal  amount  of the  Loan  in  full  on,  Octoberl5,  2028.

No  22.16

-9-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1 

"2015 Public  Sector Budget  Law"  means "Ley  de Presupuestos del Sector Pzblico del Aho
2015",  the  Borrower's  2015  Public  Sector  Budget  law  dated  November  28,  2014  and
published  in the  Borrower's  official  gazette  (Diario Oficial) on  December  6,  2014.

2. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any  expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for goods or services  supplied  under a  contract which  any national  or international
financing  institution or agency other than  the Bank or the Association  has financed
or agreed  to  finance,  or  which the  Bank or the  Association  has  financed  or agreed
to finance  under another  loan,  credit,  or grant;

for  goods  included 
in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations in  Statistical  Papers,  Series M,  No. 34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the SITC), or
any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated  by the  Bank by  notice to  the Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

Sub-group 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured  (whether  or
not containing  tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and  associated
materials
Pearls,  precious and  semiprecious
stones, unworked  or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and  parts thereof;
fuel  elements  (cartridges),  non-
irradiated,  for  nuclear reactors
Tobacco  processing  machinery
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group  metals  (except watches  and
watch  cases)  and  goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares (including  set
gems)
Gold,  non-monetary  (excluding
gold  ores and  concentrates)

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 
897 

971 

(c) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for 
consumption;

luxury

-10-

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for environmentally  hazardous  goods, the  manufacture,  use  or  import of which  is
prohibited  under the  laws of the Borrower  or international  agreements to which the
Borrower  is  a party;

on  account  of any  payment prohibited by a decision  of the United Nations  Security
Council  taken  under  Chapter VII  of the  Charter  of the United  Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having  taken timely and appropriate  action satisfactory to the Bank  to address such
practices  when they  occur.

"General  Conditions"  means the  "International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with the  modifications  set forth  in
the  Bank's  website
Section 
www.worldbank.org.

II  of  this  Appendix,  available 

the  public  on 

to 

"Higher  Education  Scholarship  Program"  means  "Becas  de  Educaci6n Superior", the
Borrower's  scholarship  program  created  pursuant  to the  2013  Budget  Law  No. 20641  and
regulated  by  MINEDUC's  Decree  No.  97  of  February  22,  2015,  comprising  "Becas
Bicentenario ",  "Becas  Juan  G6mez  Millas ",  "Becas  Nuevo  Milenio ",  "Becas para
Estudiantes Hifos  de  Profesionales de  la Educacidn",  "Becas  Vocaci6n  de  Profesor",
"Becas  de  Reparacidn ",  "Becas  de  Excelencia  Acadimica ",  "Becas  Nivelaci6n
Acadimica", "Becas de Articulacidn" and "Becas de Reubicaci6n".

"MDS"  means  "Ministerio de  Desarrollo Social", the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Social
Development.

"MINEDUC"  means  "Ministerio de Educaci6n", the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Education.

"PACE"  means  "Programa de  Acompaiamiento y  Acceso  Efectivo  a  la  Educaci6n
Superior", the  Borrower's  Effective  Access  to  Tertiary  Education  Program,  created
pursuant  to Ministerial  Resolution  No. 680  of January  29, 2015.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  support:  (i)
promoting  equal  opportunities  in  education;  (ii)  improving  the  conditions  to  enhance  the
quality  of tertiary  education;  and  (iii)  strengthening  institutions  for  poverty  measurement
and  enhancing  targeting  mechanism  for  social  programs,  as  such  program  is  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  the  letter  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment  to  the execution  of the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in
support  of the Program  during  its execution.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest  of the  two  dates  on  which  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
signed the  Loan Agreement  and  such  definition applies  to all  references  to "the date  of the
Loan  Agreement"  in  the  General  Conditions.  Countersignature  date  by  de  Borrower's
Treasurer  General  and  Controller  General  are  not  considered  for purposes  of establishing
the  Signature  Date.

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

o 2 2.  16

-11-

10. 

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of
Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions are  hereby  modified  as follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

In  the  Table of Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names and  Section  numbers
are  modified to  reflect the  modifications  set forth in  the  paragraphs  below.

The last sentence of paragraph (a)  of Section  2.03  (relating to Applications  for Withdrawal)
is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections  2.04 (Designated Accounts) and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted  in their
entirety,  and  the remaining  Sections  in Article  II are  renumbered  accordingly.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to  read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at  the  rate

(a) 
specified  in  the  Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower shall  pay the Bank a  commitment charge  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement  to the respective  dates  on which  amounts are withdrawn  by  the Borrower  from
the  Loan Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall be  payable  semi-annually
in  arrears  on each  Payment Date."

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally) and  5.09  (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are  deleted  in their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent  Sections  in Article  V
are  renumbered  accordingly.

Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5 above  and  relating  to  Use  of
Goods, Works and Services) is deleted  in  its  entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified  to  read  as follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall prepare,  or  cause  to  be prepared,  and  furnish
... 
to  the  Bank  not  later  than twelve  (12)  months  after the  Closing  Date,  a  report of
such  scope and  in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
of  the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their

-12-

respective  obligations  under the  Legal Agreements  and  the accomplishment  of the
purposes  of the  Loan."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified,  as necessary,  to  reflect  the modifications  set forth  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following  definition
of "Commitment Charge",  and  renumbering  the remaining  paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement for  the purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of  the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is  modified  to read  as follows:

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in  support  of the

"37. 
Program,  other than to  finance  expenditures  excluded pursuant  to the  Loan Agreement."

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of  the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is  deleted  in  its  entirety.

In paragraph 48  of the Appendix, the definition of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified by replacing
the reference  to  Section 3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In paragraph  67  of the  Appendix, the  definition of the term "Loan  Payment"  is modified to
read  as follows:

"67. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but  not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any), any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

In  paragraph  72 of the  Appendix, the definition of "Payment  Date"  is  modified by deleting
the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after  the  word
"interest".

The defined term  "Project"  in paragraph  75  of the Appendix  is  modified to  read "Program"
and  its  definition  is modified to  read  as follows (and  all references  to  "Project"  throughout
these General  Conditions are  deemed  to be  references to  "Program"):

"75. 
which the  Loan  is made."

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of

9. 

10. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

