I WMWAL

WCUMNTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8554-BR

Loan Agreement

(Service  Delivery  and Fiscal  Management  Development  Policy Loan  -
Programa de ConsolidaVdo do Equilibrio Fiscal para Melhoria da PrestaCdo de
ServiVos Piblicos do Municipio de Manaus - PROCONFIS MANA  US)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

MUNICIPALITY  OF  MANAUS

Dated 

,2016

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8554-BR

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

the
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank")  and  the  MUNICIPIALITY  OF  MANAUS  ("Borrower")  for  the  purpose  of
providing  financing  in  support  of  the  Program  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement).

,  2016,  entered 

into  between 

a,-), 

WHEREAS  (A)  the  Bank  has  decided  to  provide  this  financing  on  the  basis  of,
inter alia: (a)  the  actions  which  the  Borrower  has  already  taken  under  the  Program  and
which  are  described  in  Section  I of  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement;  (b)  the  Guarantor's
maintenance  of an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy  framework;  and  (c)  the  Borrower's
maintenance  of:  (i)  an  appropriate  expenditure  program;  (ii)  sustainable  debt;  and  (iii)
appropriate  fiscal  arrangements  with the  Guarantor.

WHEREAS  (B)  the  Borrower  has  informed  the  Bank  that,  upon  deposit  by  the
Bank of the proceeds  of the Loan  (on the terms  set forth  in  Section  II  of Schedule  1 to this
Agreement  and  for  purposes  of supporting  the  Program)  into  an account  to  be designated
by  the  Borrower,  the  Borrower's  financial  capacity  will  be  strengthened  by  expanding  its
fiscal  space  to  finance  further  public  investments  in  accordance  with  the  Borrower's
budgetary  laws.

The  Bank  and  the Borrower  therefore  hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General Conditions  (as defined  in  the Appendix  to this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized  terms used  in this Agreement
have the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in the  General  Conditions  or in  the  Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend  to the  Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of one  hundred  fifty  million  Dollars
($150,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.09  of this
Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02. 

The  Borrower may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program
in  accordance  with  Section  II of  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's
representative  for purpose  of taking  any  action  required  or permitted  to  be  taken
pursuant  to this  Section  is  its  Secretary  of Finance.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%) of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge payable  by the Borrower  shall be equal to  one quarter of

one  percent (0.25%)  per  annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

(a) 

If on  any  given  day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of
this Section),  the  Borrower  shall pay  to the  Bank a surcharge  at the rate  of
one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure  Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)  of this  Section)  for
each  said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment Date.

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth  below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess Exposure  Amount"  means for each  day during
which  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total  amount  of said  excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio  of all  (or,  if the  Bank  so  determines,  a  portion)  of the  Loan
to  the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or  the  equivalent  portions)  of the
loans  made  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower,  the  Guarantor  and  to
other borrowers  guaranteed  by the  Guarantor that are  also  subject
to  an exposure  surcharge,  as  said  excess  and  ratio  are reasonably
determined  from  time to time  by  the Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Guarantor  which,  if exceeded,
would subject  the Loan  to the Exposure  Surcharge, as determined
from  time to  time by  the  Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure to  the  Guarantor, as reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

2.06. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of

-2-

the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any
amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower shall  instead be calculated  as  provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the General
Conditions.

2.07. 

The  Payment  Dates  are  March  15  and  September  15  in each  year.

2.08. 

The principal amount  of the Loan shall be  repaid in accordance  with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

2.09. 

(a) 

The  Borrower may  at any  time, in each  case with the  prior no objection  of
the  Guarantor,  through  the  Secretariat  of the  National  Treasury  of  the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any  of the following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C) all  of the principal  amount  of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from  a Variable Rate  based on a Variable
Spread to  a  Variable  Rate based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the  setting  of
limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all  or any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and outstanding  by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to paragraph  (a)  of this Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV of the  General  Conditions  and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

2.10.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as such  pursuant  to paragraph  5 of Section  II  of the Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall
promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of this
Article  II as the  Bank  may, from  time  to time, reasonably  request.

-3-

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its  commitment to the Program  and  its implementation.  To
this end,  and  further to  Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions:

the Borrower  and the  Bank shall from  time to  time, at the request  of either
party,  exchange  views  on:  (i)  the  Guarantor's  macroeconomic  policy
framework;  (ii)  the Borrower's  maintenance  of an  appropriate expenditure
program,  sustainable  debt,  and  appropriate  fiscal  arrangements  with  the
Guarantor;  and  (iii)  the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out the Program;

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section, the  Borrower shall promptly  inform the Bank of any situation that
would  have the effect  of materially:  (i)  impairing the  Borrower's  ability to
maintain  an  appropriate  expenditure  program,  sustainable  debt,  and/or
appropriate  fiscal  arrangements  with  the  Guarantor;  or  (ii)  reversing  the
objectives  of the Program  or any action  taken under the Program including
any  action  specified  in  Section I of Schedule  I to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist  of the  following,  namely,  an  action
has  been taken  or a policy  has been  adopted  by the  Borrower  to reverse  any action
or policy  under the Program,  including any  action  listed  in  Section I of Schedule  1
to  this Agreement,  in  a  manner  that  would,  in  the  opinion  of the  Bank,  adversely
affect the  achievement of the  objectives  of the  Program.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

The  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in
carrying  out  the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Guarantor's
macroeconomic  policy framework.

The  Bank 
appropriate 
(iii)  appropriate  fiscal  arrangements  with  the Guarantor.

is  satisfied  with  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of:  (i)  an
and
(ii) 

expenditure 

sustainable 

program; 

debt; 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

-4-

5.02. 

The  Additional  Legal  Matter consists  of the  following, namely,  that the  Loan  has
been  registered  with the  Guarantor's  Central  Bank.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Mayor.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Prefeitura  de  Manaus
Avenida Brasil,  no  2971
Compensa
Manaus  - AM, 69.036-110

Facsimile:  + 55  92  3625-7224

6.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 
and year first above  written.

rOf  V 

ttQi7, 

ub!(-  Of  E)f 

il 

,as  of the  day

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND 

VELOP  ENT

Authorized  Representative

By

-5-

MUNICIPALITY  OF  MANAUS

By

Authorized  epresentative

-6-

SCHEDULE1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Program

The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower under the  Program,  aimed  at assisting  the Borrower  in
improving  management  of  the  Borrower's  finances,  and  of  its  education  and  transport
sectors,  include the  following:

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Strengthened  Public Sector  and Fiscal  Management.

The Borrower  has,  through  SEMEF,  adopted  a management  model  following  the
PDCA  methodology,  an  integrated  electronic  document  management  system,  and
monitored  the  achievement  of  selected  indicators,  as  evidenced  by:  (a)  the
in  the
Borrower's  Portaria No.  022/2015-GS/SEMEF,  dated  and  published 
Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on January  29, 2015;  (b)  the  Borrower's  Decree No.
2.796,  dated  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on May  21,  2014;
and  (c)  the Borrower's  Oficio No.  253/2015  - GS/SEMEF,  dated  March  9,  2015.

The  Borrower  has  implemented  an  integrated  supply  management  system  and
processes  for  procuring  goods  and  services,  including  electronic  bidding  and
inspection of goods  delivery,  and adopted the  legal framework  for binding selected
vendors  registering  prices  for  the  provision  of  services  and  goods  through  the
signing of Ata de Registro de Pregos, as  evidenced  by the  Borrower's Decree  Nos.
3.009,  3.011,  3.012,  3.013,  and  3.014,  all  dated  and  published  in  the  Borrower's
Official  Gazette  on January  26, 2015.

The  Borrower has adopted  the legal  framework for auditing  the Borrower's payroll
system  and  carried  out an  audit of the  Borrower's  payroll  in  all  of its  secretariats,
as  evidenced  by:  (a)  the  Borrower's  Decree No.  2.683,  dated  and  published  in  the
Borrower's  Official  Gazette on  December  27,  2013;  (b)  the Borrower's  Programa
de Auditoria Especial - PAE  No.  001/2014,  dated  April  28,  2014;  and  (c)  the
Borrower's  Ordem de Serviqo OS  2014 No.  001,  dated April  28,  2014.

The  Borrower  has  established  the  Manaus Previdncia, as  evidenced  by:  (a)  the
Borrower's  Law No.  1.803,  dated and published in  the Borrower's Official  Gazette
on  November  29, 2013;  and  (b)  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  2.714,  dated  and
published  in the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on January  29, 2014.

The  Borrower  has  adopted  administrative  procedures  to  enable  taxpayers  to  pay
their  respective  tax  arrears  in  instalments  and  to  enable  the  Borrower  to  contact
taxpayers  in  arrears by  different means  of communication,  as  evidenced  by: (a) the
Borrower's  Ordem de Servigo No.  001/2013  - DECOB/SUBREC/SEMEF,  dated

-7-

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

August  1, 2013;  and (b) the Borrower's  Law No.  1.792,  dated and  published  in the
Borrower's  Official  Gazette on November  12,  2013.

Enhanced Management  and Quality  of the Education and Transport Sectors.

through  SEMED, 

The  Borrower  has, 
integrated  school
management  model,  including  the  establishment  of  school-level  targets  and
pedagogical  planning,  as  evidenced  by: 
the  Borrower's  Portaria No.
0145/2014,  dated  and published  in the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on January  31,
2014;  and  (b)  copies  of two  commitment  letters  between  SEMED  and  school
directors,  both  dated  April  15,  2014.

implemented  an 

(a) 

The  Borrower  has,  through  SEMED,  implemented  a  certification  program  on
school management  skills for  school directors and  adopted a  meritocratic  selection
process for school directors, as evidenced by: (a)  the Borrower's  Decree No. 3.022,
dated  and  published  in the Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on March  5, 2015;  and  (b)
the  Borrower's  Edital No.  001/2015  - SEMED/GS,  dated  and  published  in  the
Borrower's  Official  Gazette on  March  6,  2015.

The  Borrower  has,  through  SEMED,  adopted  the  procedures  and  criteria  for
appointment  and  relocation  of public  servants  serving  SEMED,  as  evidenced  by:
(a)  the  Borrower's Portaria No.  0570/2014 - SEMED/GS,  dated  May 8, 2014, and
published 
in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on  May  9,  2014;  and  (b)  the
Borrower's  Decree,  unnumbered,  dated  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  Official
Gazette  on July  10,  2014.

The  Borrower  has  adopted  an  integrated  urban  regeneration  policy  for  the  city
center  in  the  Borrower's  territory,  including  licensing,  retraining  and  relocating
street  vendors  to  selected  venues,  as  evidenced  by:  (a)  the  Borrower's  Law No.
1.780,  dated and published  in the Borrower's  Official Gazette on October 30, 2013;
and  (b) the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  3.008,  dated  and  published  in  the  Borrower's
Official  Gazette on  January 23,  2015.

The Borrower  has  adopted processes  for  managing  the  concession of bus  services
in the Borrower's territory  (including  real-time tracking  and control  of the bus  fleet
in  the  Borrower's  territory),  and  policies  to  license  selected  public  transport  in
selected  areas  of the  Borrower's  territory,  as  evidenced  by:  (a)  the  Borrower's
Decree  No.  2.566,  dated  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on
October  11,  2013;  (b) the  Ofijcio  ACOP  No.  012/2015,  issued  by  ACOP,  dated
February 9,  2015;  (c)  the  Borrower's  Edital ConcorrOncia Piblica No.  001/2014
- CEL/SMTU,  dated  February  27,  2014;  and  (d) the  Borrower's  Despacho de
-
Homologaqdo  e  de  Adjudicaqdo  ConcorrOncia  Pfiblica  No.  001/2013 
CEL/SMTU,  dated  April  23,  2014,  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  Official
Gazette  on  April 24,  2014.

-8-

Section  II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

B. 

C. 

1. 

D. 

1. 

2. 

E. 

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
may  specify by  notice  to the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan (except  for amounts  required  to pay  the
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan to this end  is  set  out  in  the table below:

Allocations 

(1) Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
(2)  Front-end  Fee 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount  of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)

149,625,000
375,000
150,000,000

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.

No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank
is  satisfied:

(a) 

with the adequacy's of the Guarantor's macroeconomic  policy  framework;

(b) 

with  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of:  (i)  an  appropriate  expenditure
program;  (ii)  sustainable  debt;  and  (iii)  appropriate  fiscal  arrangements
with the  Guarantor;  and

(c) 

with the  progress achieved  by  the Borrower in  carrying out the Program.

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except  as  the Bank may  otherwise  agree:

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an
account designated  by  the Borrower  and  acceptable  to the  Bank;  and

the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that upon  each  deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into
this  account,  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget
management  system,  in  a  manner  acceptable to  the Bank.

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower  undertakes  that  the proceeds  of the Loan
shall  not be used to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank determines  at any
time  that  an  amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded
Expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  an

-9-

amount  equal  to  the  amount  of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to
the  Bank upon  such  request  shall  be cancelled.

F. 

Closing  Date.  The  Closing  Date  is  July  31,  2017.  The  Bank  will  grant  an
extension  of the  Closing  Date  only  after the  Guarantor's  Ministry  of Finance  has
informed  the  Bank that  it  agrees  with  such  an  extension.

- 10-

SCHEDULE2

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable  by  the Borrower  on each  Principal  Payment Date shall be  determined  by
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
Payment Date;  by (b)  the Installment  Share for each  Principal  Payment  Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted, as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule, to  which a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each  March  15  and  September  15 

Beginning March  15,  2021,
through  March  15,  2039

On  September  15,  2039 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)
2.63%

2.69%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  have not been  fully withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been withdrawn  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in  amounts  determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of  this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as

- 11 -

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal  and  shall be  repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which  invoices
are issued  on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such  sub-paragraph  shall  no longer apply to any  withdrawals made after
the  adoption  of such  billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any  Principal  Payment Date occurring during the  Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately  prior to  the Conversion  by either:  (i) the exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank  under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than one  Loan  Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately to  the  amount  denominated
in each  Loan  Currency,  so as  to  produce  a  separate  amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

- 12  -

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

"ACOP"  means  Acordo  Operacional das  Empresas  de  Transporte  Coletivo
Urbano, the  agreement  created  by  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  2.566,  dated  and
published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on  October  11,  2013,  aimed  at
improving  public  urban  transport  and  at  addressing  economic  and  financial
imbalances  resulting  from  urban  transport  tariff, as  referred  to  in  Schedule  1,
Section  I.B.5,  to this Agreement.

"Ata  de  Registro  de  Prepos"  means  a  binding  document  recording  the  price,
vendor,  units,  participants,  and  conditions  for future  hire,  all  in  accordance  with
the  Borrower's
the  vendor's 
Decree No.  3.013,  dated  and  published  in  the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on
January  26, 2015,  as  referred  to in  Schedule  1, Section  I.A.2,  to  this Agreement.

and  offer,  pursuant 

respective 

bid 

to 

3. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or which  the  Bank  or the
Association  has  financed  or agreed  to  finance  under another  loan,  credit,
or grant;

for goods  included  in  the  following  groups  or sub-groups  of the  Standard
International Trade Classification,  Revision  3 (SITC,  Rev.3),  published by
the  United  Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)
(the  SITC),  or  any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions
to the  SITC,  as  designated  by the  Bank by notice  to the  Borrower:

Group 

Sub-group 

Description  of Item

Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco, un-
manufactured,  tobacco
refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and
associated  materials
Pearls,  precious  and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked or worked

112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

- 13  -

718 

718.7 

728.43 

897.3 

728 

897 

971 

Nuclear  reactors,  and parts
thereof;  fuel  elements
(cartridges),  non-
irradiated,  for  nuclear
reactors
Tobacco  processing
machinery
Jewelry of gold,  silver or
platinum  group  metals
(except watches  and
watch cases)  and
goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)
Gold,  non-monetary
(excluding  gold  ores and
concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for  environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the  manufacture,  use  or  import  of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
agreements  to  which the  Borrower  is a  party;

on account of any payment  prohibited by  a  decision  of the  United Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the  United
Nations; and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,
collusive  or  coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the
Borrower  or  other  recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action
satisfactory  to the  Bank  to address  such  practices  when they  occur.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"Manaus Previdncia" means  the  Borrower's  independent  authority  responsible
for  managing  the  Borrower's  public  servants  retirement  system,  including  its
responsibilities  for  clear  and  accountable  decision  making  for  investments  under
its jurisdiction,  as  referred  to  in  Schedule  1, Section  I.A.4,  to this Agreement.

4. 

5. 

6. 

"Official  Gazette"  means  the  Borrower's  Dicirio Oficial.

- 14  -

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

"PDCA"  means  the  "plan,  do,  check,  action"  methodology  adopted  by  the
in  the
Borrower's  Portaria No.  022/2015-GS/SEMEF,  dated  and  published 
Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on  January  29,  2015,  as  referred  to  in  Schedule  1,
Section  I.A. 1, to this Agreement.

"Program"  means the program of actions, objectives  and policies designed to assist
the  Borrower  in  improving  management  of the  Borrower's  finances,  and  of  its
education  and  transport  sectors,  set forth  or  referred  to  in  the  letter  dated  March
10,  2015,  from the  Borrower to the  Bank declaring  the Borrower's  commitment  to
the execution  of the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in  support
of the Program  during  its execution.

"SEMED"  means  Secretaria Municipal de Educaqdo, the  Borrower's  Secretariat
of Education,  or any  successor  thereof.

"SEMEF" means  Secretaria Municipal de Finanqas, Tecnologia da Informaqdo e
Controle Interno, the  Borrower's  Secretariat of Finance,  Information  Technology
and  Internal  Control,  or any  successor thereof.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the table  set forth  in  Part  B  of
Section  II of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are hereby  modified as follows:

In  the  Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth  in the paragraphs below.

The  last  sentence  of paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections  2.04  (Designated Accounts) and 2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections 
in  Article  II  are  renumbered
accordingly.

4. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
amount at  the rate specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

- 15  -

(b) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at the  rate  specified  in the  Loan  Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall accrue  from
a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in arrears  on each  Payment  Date."

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally), and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent
Sections  in  Article  V are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to paragraph  5 above
and  relating to  Use of Goods, Works and Services) is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of Section 5.06  (renumbered  as such  pursuant  to paragraph  5 above)
is modified  to  read  as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures
under the  Loan until two years after the Closing Date.  The Borrower  shall
enable the  Bank's representatives  to  examine such  records."

8. 

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.07 (renumbered  as  such pursuant  to paragraph  5 above)
is  modified to  read  as  follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall prepare,  or  cause to  be  prepared,  and
... 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request,  on  the  execution  of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal
Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of the purposes  of the Loan."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are modified,  as necessary,  to  reflect  the modifications  set forth  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the  remaining  paragraphs
accordingly:

"19. 

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

5. 

6. 

7. 

9. 

10. 

- 16-

in  the Loan  Agreement for  the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is  modified to  read  as follows:

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any use to  which the  Loan is  put in
"37. 
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded
pursuant to the  Loan Agreement."

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted  in  its  entirety.

In  paragraph  48  of the  Appendix, the definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified by
replacing  the  reference to  Section  3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).

In  paragraph  67  of the  Appendix,  the  definition  of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is
modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties
"67. 
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited  to) any amount  of the  Withdrawn Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end  Fee, the Commitment  Charge, interest at the Default
Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  surcharge,  any  prepayment  premium,  any
transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the
establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any
Unwinding  Amount  payable  by the  Borrower."

In  paragraph  72  of the  Appendix,  the definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by
deleting the word "is"  and  inserting the words  "and  Commitment Charge are"  after
the word  "interest".

The  defined  term  "Project"  in  paragraph  75  of the  Appendix  is  modified  to  read
"Program"  and  its definition  is  modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to
"Project"  throughout  these  General  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to
"Program"):

"Program"  means  the program  referred  to  in  the Loan Agreement

"75. 
in  support  of which  the Loan  is made."

- 17-

