OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8553-KZ

Loan Agreement
(First Macroeconomic  Management  and  Competitiveness
Development  Policy Loan)

REPUBLIC  OF  KAZAKHSTAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated February  17,  2016

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

("Borrower") 

INTERNATIONAL 

17,  2016,  entered 
and 

into  between  REPUBLIC  OF
Agreement  dated  February 
FOR
KAZAKHSTAN 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of providing
financing  in support  of the Program  (as  defined  in the Appendix  to this Agreement).  The
Bank has decided to provide this financing  on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which
the Borrower  has  already  taken  under the Program and which are  described  in  Section  I of
Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement;  and  (b)  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of  an  adequate
macroeconomic  policy  framework.  The  Borrower  and the Bank therefore hereby  agree  as
follows:

BANK 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized  terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings  ascribed  to  them in the General  Conditions  or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank agrees  to lend  to the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set  forth or
referred to in this Agreement,  the amount of one billion Dollars ($1,000,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this  Agreement
("Loan").

2.02.  The  Borrower may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program

in accordance  with  Section II  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall pay the Front-end  Fee
not later than  sixty days  after the Effective  Date.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge payable  by the Borrower  shall be equal  to one quarter  of

one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided, that upon  a  Conversion of all  or  any portion  of the principal  amount  of
the Loan,  the  interest  payable by  the Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any

-2-

amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance remains  unpaid  when due and  such non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall instead be calculated  as  provided in Section  3.02  (e)  of the General
Conditions.

The Payment Dates  are March  1 and  September  1 in each year.

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth  in Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.06. 

2.07. 

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at  any time request  any of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate  to a Fixed Rate,  or  vice  versa;  or  (B) all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate  based  on  a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan  withdrawn and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable  Rate based on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the setting of
limits on  the Variable  Rate or  the  Reference  Rate  applicable  to all  or any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on the
Variable  Rate or  the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion requested  pursuant  to paragraph  (a)  of this Section  that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

2.09.  Without limitation upon  the provisions of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions
(renumbered as  such pursuant  to paragraph  5  of Section II  of the Appendix to this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall
promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the  provisions  of this
Article  II as  the Bank may, from time to time,  reasonably request.

-3-

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment  to the Program and its  implementation.  To
this end,  and further  to  Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the Borrower  and the Bank shall  from time  to time, at the request  of either
the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
party,  exchange  views  on 
framework  and the progress  achieved  in carrying out the Program;

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment  a  report  on the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section, the Borrower  shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or  any  action  taken under  the  Program  including  any  action  specified  in
Section  I of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF  THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  a
situation  has  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the  Program,  or  a
significant part  of it,  will be carried out.

4.02.  The Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the following,  namely  that  the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for a
period  of 60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the following,  namely that
the  Bank  is  satisfied  with  the progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out
the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

5.02.  The Effectiveness  Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty  (180)  days after the

date  of this  Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Finance.

-4-

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address is:

Ministry  of Finance
11  Pobedy Avenue
Astana 010000
Republic  of Kazakhstan

Telex: 

Facsimile:

265126  (FILIN) 

(7)  (7172) 717785

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202477-6391

AGREED  at Astana,  Republic  of Kazakhstan,  as of the day and year first above  written.

-5-

REPUBLIC  OF  KAZAKHSTAN

Aut  orized Representative

Name:  ga&e7-' f' 

,'w'f

Title: lvCIi16w0e 

'gzee

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

-~
Name:Mk"(-L5 
Title: CMTrA -tf  -fCf(

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Program

Actions  Taken  Under  the  Prozram.  The  actions  taken  by  the  Borrower  under  the
Program include  the following:

1. 

The Borrower  made  the following fiscal  adjustments:

(a) 

(b) 

the  Borrower revised  its 2015  Republican  Budget  expenditures  and gross
lending  downwards  by  close  to  eight  percent,  as  evidenced  by  Law  No.
290-V,  dated  March  11,  2015,  titled "On  Amendments  and Additions  to
the Law  of the Republic  of Kazakhstan  'On  Republican  Budget  for 2015-
2017  years"',  to avoid an excessive  widening  of the non-oil  deficit;  and

the Borrower amended the Order  of the Minister  of National Economy No.
9,  dated January  8,  2015,  and titled "On  Approval  of Rules  and Timing of
(also
the  Development  of  Socio-Economic  Development  Forecast" 
the  Medium-Term
referred  as  Guidelines 
Macroeconomic  and Fiscal Framework),  as  evidenced by  the Order of the
Minister  of National  Economy  No. 557,  dated  July  21,  2015,  so  that the
definition  for  the  term  "non-oil  deficit":  (i)  comprehensively  covers  the
the  Republican  Budget,  regional
consolidated  budget  (comprising 
budgets,  and  the  NFRK);  and  (ii)  properly  includes  customs  duty  on  oil
exports  as  an  oil revenue  item.

the  Preparation  of 

for 

2. 

The Borrower  submitted  to Parliament,  for approval  thereof, a draft law titled "On
Amendments  and  Additions  to  Some  Legislative  Acts  of  the  Republic  of
Kazakhstan  on  Tax  and  Customs  Administration",  as  evidenced  by  the
Government  Resolution  No.  710,  dated  August  29,  2015,  to  increase  non-oil
revenues  by  reducing  the  VAT  registration  threshold  for  VAT  payers  from  an
annual  turnover  of  approximately  30,000  Monthly  Calculation  Index  (MCI)
equivalent  to  3,234 MCI equivalent.

3. 

The  National  Bank  of Kazakhstan  (NBK)  undertook  the  following  actions  in
accordance  with the "Monetary  Policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan to  2020":

(a) 

adopted  a  free-floating  exchange  rate  regime,  as  evidenced  by  the
"Joint Statement  of the Government  of Kazakhstan and the National  Bank
of Kazakhstan",  dated  August  20,  2015,  and  the NBK  Press  Release  No.
38,  dated August  21,  2015;

-7-

(b) 

(c) 

adopted  a  new  policy  interest  rate  in  the  process  of  transitioning  to
inflation targeting,  as  evidenced  by the NBK Press  Release No.  43,  dated
September  2, 2015;  and

to  Parliament,  for  approval 

thereof,  a  draft  law  titled
submitted 
"On Amendments  and Additions  to Some Legislative  Acts of the Republic
of  Kazakhstan  on  Non-Performing  Loans  and  Assets  of  Second-Tier
Banks,  Financial  Services  and Activities  of Financial  Institutions,  and the
National  Bank  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan",  as  evidenced  by  the
Government Resolution No. 391,  dated May 29,  2015, which regulates  the
adoption  of the rules  on  conducting  open  market  operations  for effective
monetary  policy  management.

4. 

The  Borrower  enacted  the  following  legislation  to  establish  the legal  framework
for corporate  insolvency:

(a) 

Law No.  269-V,  dated  December  29,  2014,  and titled  "On  Amendments
and Additions  to Some  Legislative  Acts of the Republic  of Kazakhstan  on
the  Radical  Improvement  of Business  Environment  in  the  Republic  of
Kazakhstan",  which  establishes  a  corporate  insolvency legal  framework;
and

(b) 

Sub-laws  that  enable  the  implementation  of  the  corporate  insolvency
framework  mentioned  in subsection  4 (a)  above, namely:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

the  Order  of the Minister  of Finance  No.  92,  dated  February  16,
2015,  which  provides  for  reimbursement  of  taxes  owed  by
insolvent corporations  and costs  of bankruptcy  administration;

the  Order of the Minister  of Finance  No.  131,  dated  February  26,
2015, which establishes  the rights  of bankruptcy  administrators in
the context  of cameral  control  over the  administrators'  activities
in rehabilitation  and bankruptcy  procedures;

the Order  of the Minister  of Finance  No.  132,  dated February  26,
2015,  which establishes  the basis for a bankruptcy administrator's
accountability  for violations  and  sanctions;

the  Order  of the  Minister  of Finance  No.  183,  dated  March  18,
2015, which  establishes  the minimum  basic  fee  for a  bankruptcy
administrator;

the Order  of the Minister of Finance No.  130, dated February  26,
2015,  which sets up the registration  of bankruptcy administrators;
and

-8-

(vi) 

the  Order  of the  Minister  of Finance  No.  178,  dated  March  17,
2015, which establishes  the rights  and procedures  for carrying out
electronic  auction  of seized assets.

5. 

The  NBK  issued  revised  prudential  norms  and  accounting  requirements  that
improve the risk management  of banks,  as  evidenced by:

(a) 

(b) 

the  amendment  of the  Financial  Supervision  Agency  Board  Regulation
No. 358,  as  evidenced  by the  NBK Board  Regulation No. 97,  dated  May
27,  2014,  and  which  took  effect  on  January  1, 2015:  to  (i)  revise  risk
weights  toward  alignment  with Basel  III;  (ii)  increase  authorized  capital
of banks;  and (iii)  require  banks  to form conservation  capital buffers;  and

the issuance  of the  NBK Board  Regulation  No.  256,  dated  December  24,
2014, to  require banks  to align  with IFRS  13  for  market-based,  fair  value
disclosure,  and  to  call  for  more  consistent,  frequent,  and  electronically
documented  valuations  of collateral.

6. 

In  line  with  the  Borrower's  WTO  commitments  to  the  norms  and  rules  of the
Agreement  on  Trade  Related  Investment  Measures,  the  Borrower  submitted  to
Parliament  a draft law titled "On  Amendments  and Additions to Some Legislatives
Acts of the Republic  of Kazakhstan in Connection  with the Accession  to the World
Trade  Organization",  as  evidenced  by the Government Resolution No. 775,  dated
September  11,  2015, to amend  national  legislations in order to limit the amount  of
local content  in works  and services.

7. 

The  MNE  introduced  mechanisms  to  assess  the impact  of regulations  governing
businesses  through its:

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

adoption  of rules  on conducting  regulatory  impact  analysis,  as  evidenced
by the Order  of the Minister  of National  Economy No.  32,  dated  January
21,  2015;  and

establishment  of  a  regulatory  oversight  unit  located  in  the  Ministry  of
National  Economy, with  allocated  positions  reflecting  adequate  staffing,
as  evidenced  by  the Order  of the  Executive  Secretary  of the  Ministry  of
National  Economy No.  44, dated  September 3, 2015.

8. 

The Borrower strengthened  its competition  policy framework, as evidenced by its:

amendments  to the  existing  anti-cartel  enforcement  provisions  in:  (i)  the
Competition Law No.  1 12-IV,  dated December 25,  2008;  and (ii) the Code
on  Administrative  Offenses  No.  235-V,  dated  July 5, 2014,  as  amended
for both by Law  No. 312-V, dated May  5, 2015; and

9. 

A. 

B. 

C. 

D. 

-9-

(b) 

adoption  of market  definition  techniques  that  include  relevant  market
criteria,  as  evidenced  by  the  Order  of the Minister  of National  Economy
No.  303,  dated April  2,  2015.

The Borrower  approved  "Corporate  Governance Code  of Sovereign  Wealth Fund
"Samruk-Kazyna"  JSC",  as  evidenced  by  the  Government  Resolution  No.  239,
dated April  15,  2015.

Section  II. 

Availability  of Loan Proceeds

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan Amounts.  The Loan (except for amounts  required  to pay the
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the
amounts  of the Loan  to this end is  set  out in the  table below:

Allocations 

Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount  of the Loan Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)

1,000,000,000
1,000,000,000

Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal  shall be made from the Loan Account
until the Bank has  received payment  in full  of the Front-end  Fee.

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.  No withdrawal  shall  be made  of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied:  (a) with the Program being
carried  out  by  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's
macroeconomic  policy  framework.

E. 

Deposits of Loan Amounts.  Except  as the Bank may  otherwise agree:

1. 

2. 

all withdrawals  from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account  designated  by the Borrower  and acceptable  to the  Bank; and

the Borrower  shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan
into this account,  an equivalent  amount is accounted for in the Borrower's
budget management  system, in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

F. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The  Borrower undertakes  that the proceeds  of the Loan
shall  not be used to finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the Bank determines  at  any
time  that  an  amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded

-10-

Expenditure,  the Borrower  shall, promptly  upon  notice from the Bank,  refund  an
amount  equal  to  the amount  of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to
the Bank upon  such request  shall  be cancelled.

G. 

Closing  Date.  The  Closing Date is  December 31,  2016.

-11-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date,  the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined  by
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
the  Bank  by multiplying: 
Payment Date;  by (b)  the Installment  Share  for each Principal Payment Date,  such
repayable  amount to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts  referred  to
in paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to which a Currency  Conversion applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each March  1 and September  1

Beginning  September  1, 2018
through  March  1, 2035 

On September  1, 2035 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

2.86%
2.76%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have not been  fully withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal  Payment Date  shall be determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds  of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of  this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined by the Bank by multiplying  the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which a  Currency
Conversion applies.

-12-

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan withdrawn  within two  calendar  months  prior to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date, be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal  and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal.

4. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if
at any time  the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective  Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after
the adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately prior to the Conversion by either:  (i)  the exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in  more  than one Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the  amount  denominated
in each Loan  Currency,  so as  to produce  a separate amortization  schedule  for each
such amount.

-13-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"2015 Republican  Budget" means the Borrower's republican budget for the period
of January  1, 2015,  through  December  31,  2015.

"Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Investment  Measures"  means  the  agreement,
concluded  in  1994 by the members  of the General Agreement  on Trade and Tariffs
(the  predecessor  of  the  WTO),  setting  forth  rules  that  apply  to  the  domestic
regulations  a country  applies to  foreign  investors.

"Basel  III"  means  the  reform  measures  developed  by  the  Basel  Committee  on
supervision  and  risk
Banking  Supervision 
management  of the banking  sector.

the  regulation, 

to  strengthen 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means  any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other  than  the  Bank or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or  which  the  Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance  under  another  loan, credit,
or grant;

for goods  included in  the following  groups  or  sub-groups  of the  Standard
International  Trade Classification, Revision  3 (SITC,  Rev. 3), published by
the  United Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M, No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)
(the  SITC),  or any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions
to the SITC, as  designated by  the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Sub-group 

Description  of Item

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 
667 

718 

728 
897 

Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco, un-manufactured,  tobacco
refuse
Tobacco, manufactured  (whether  or not
containing  tobacco substitutes)
Radioactive  and  associated materials
Pearls,  precious  and semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and parts  thereof;  fuel
elements  (cartridges),  non-irradiated,  for
nuclear reactors
Tobacco  processing machinery
Jewelry  of gold,  silver  or platinum  group
metals  (except  watches  and watch  cases)

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

-14-

971 

and goldsmiths'  or  silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)
Gold, non-monetary  (excluding  gold ores
and  concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for  environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the manufacture,  use  or  import  of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
agreements  to which the Borrower  is  a party;

on account of any payment prohibited  by a  decision of the United  Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the  Charter  of the  United
Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,
collusive or  coercive  practices  were  engaged  in by  representatives  of the
Borrower  or  other  recipient  of the  Loan proceeds,  without  the  Borrower
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action
satisfactory  to the Bank  to address  such  practices when  they occur.

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

"Financial  Supervision Agency"  means the  Agency of the Republic  of Kazakhstan
on  Regulation  and  Supervision  of Financial  Market  and  Financial  Organizations
reorganized  pursuant  to  Presidential Decree  No. 25,  dated April  12,  2011.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section  II of this Appendix.

"GDP" means  the Borrower's  gross  domestic product.

"IFRS"  means  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  developed  by  the
International  Accounting  Standards  Board,  which  is the  standard  setting body  of
the IFRS  Foundation.

"IFRS  13"  means  the  "IFRS  13,  Fair Value Measurement", a  reporting standard
issued, and with  effect,  on January  1, 2013.

"Ministry  of National  Economy"  or  "NNE" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of
National  Economy, or  any legal  successor  thereto.

"MoF"  means  the Borrower's  Ministry of Finance,  or  any legal  successor thereto.

-15-

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

"Monetary  Policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan  to 2020"  means the medium-term
monetary  policy  framework, approved  by the NBK on April  24,  2015,  which lays
out  a plan to switch from exchange  rate targeting to inflation rate targeting.

"Monthly  Calculation  Index"  or  "MCI" means  an  index  used  in Kazakhstan  for
calculating  pensions,  allowances  and  other  social  payments  and  also  for
incrementing fines  and calculating  taxes  and other payments.

"National Bank of Kazakhstan"  or "NBK" means the central  bank of the Borrower.

"NBK Board"  means the highest administrative  authority  within the NBK.

"NFRK"  means  the  National  Fund  of the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  created  in
August  2000 as  a stabilization  fund.

"Parliament"  means the legislature  of the Borrower.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  the  letter  dated October  9,  2015,  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank,
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

"Republican  Budget"  means  the Borrower's  republican  budget.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the table  set  forth  in Part  B  of
Section II  of Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement.
"SOE" means  a  state-owned  enterprise  of the Borrower.

"Sovereign  Wealth  Fund "Samruk-Kazyna"  JSC" means  the joint stock company
founded by  Presidential Decree No.  669,  on October  13,  2008.
"State  Revenue  Committee" means  the committee  of the MoF  established pursuant
to Government  Decree  No.  933,  dated August  14,  2014.

"Sub-law"  means  the  Borrower's  non-legislative  normative  acts  issued  pursuant
to,  and/or  for the  further  implementation  of, legislative  and  other  superior  acts  in
the  hierarchy  of the  Borrower's  normative  acts.

"VAT"  means  value-added  tax.

"WTO"  means  World  Trade  Organization,  an  international  organization  dealing
with the rules  of trade between  nations.

-16-

Section  II.  Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The General  Conditions  are hereby modified  as follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

In  the Table  of Contents,  the references  to Sections,  Section  names and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below.

The  last  sentence  of paragraph  (a)  of Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is  deleted in its  entirety.

Sections  2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered
accordingly.

4. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall pay the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay 

the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on 

the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment Charge  shall  accrue  from  a date  sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement  to the respective dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

5. 

6. 

7. 

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally), and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent
Sections in Article  V are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered as  such  pursuant to  paragraph  5  above
and relating  to  Use of Goods, Works and Services) is  deleted  in its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of Section  5.06 (renumbered  as such pursuant  to paragraph  5  above)
is modified  to read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain all  records (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
... 
bills,  receipts  and other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures  under  the Loan until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives  to  examine  such records."

-17-

8. 

Paragraph (c)  of Section 5.07  (renumbered as  such pursuant to paragraph  5 above)
is modified to read as  follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The Borrower  shall  prepare,  or  cause  to be  prepared,  and furnish
... 
to the Bank  not later than six months  after the Closing Date, a report  of such scope
and in  such  detail  as  the Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on  the  execution  of the
Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank of their  respective
obligations  under  the Legal Agreements  and the accomplishment  of the purposes
of the Loan."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified,  as necessary,  to reflect  the modifications  set forth above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the remaining  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan  Agreement  for the purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

9. 

10. 

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is  modified  to read as follows:

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any use to which the Loan  is put in  support
"37. 
of the Program, other  than to  finance  expenditures  excluded  pursuant to  the Loan
Agreement."

12. 

13. 

14. 

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of the Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted in its  entirety.
In  paragraph 48  of the Appendix, the definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is modified by
replacing  the reference to  Section  3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).
In paragraph  67  of the  Appendix,  the  definition  of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is
modified  to read as  follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"67. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge,  interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any),  any
prepayment premium, any transaction  fee for a Conversion or early termination of
a  Conversion,  the Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any premium  payable

-18-

15. 

16. 

upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any
Unwinding  Amount payable by the Borrower."
In paragraph  72 of the Appendix,  the definition of "Payment  Date"  is  modified by
deleting the word "is"  and inserting the words "and Commitment Charge  are"  after
the word  "interest".
The  defined  term  "Project"  in paragraph  75  of the  Appendix is  modified  to read
"Program"  and its  definition  is modified  to read  as  follows  (and  all references  to
"Project"  throughout  these  General  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to
"Program"):

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in

"75. 
support  of which the Loan is made."

