OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8759-JM

Loan Agreement

(Second  Competitiveness  and Fiscal Management  Programmatic  Development
Policy Loan)

between

JAMAICA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  7 4nfe  z 

, 2017

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8759-JM

LOAN  AGREEMENT

rt.Q  2) 

Agreement dated  C 

, 2017, entered into between JAMAICA
("Borrower")  and 
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for  the  purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the
Program  (as defined  in the Appendix  to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided  to provide
this  financing  on  the  basis,  inter alia, of:  (i) the  actions  which the  Borrower has  already
taken  under  the  Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I of  Schedule  1 to  this
Agreement,  and  (ii)  the  Borrower's  maintenance  of an  adequate  macroeconomic  policy
framework.  The Borrower and  the Bank therefore  hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as defined  in the  Appendix to  this Agreement)  constitute
an integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed to  them in the  General  Conditions  or in the Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

to 

in 

The Bank  agrees  to lend to  the Borrower,  on the  terms and conditions  set  forth or
referred 
the  amount  of  seventy  million  Dollars
($70,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan").

this  Agreement, 

2.02.  The  Borrower may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan in  support  of the Program

in  accordance  with Section II  of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

2.04 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

The Commitment  Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of
one percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  however,  that  the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero
percent (0%)  per annum;  and  provided furthermore  that, upon a  Conversion of all

-2-

or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with the  relevant  provisions  of Article  IV of the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
remains  unpaid  when due and  such non-payment  continues  for a  period of thirty
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as
provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates  are May  1 and November  1 in each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule  set  forth in  Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at any time request  any of the  following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a  Variable  Rate to a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B) all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based on a  Fixed  Reference Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal amount  of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread to  a  Variable Rate based on a  Fixed Spread;  and (iii)  the  setting  of
limits on the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference Rate  applicable  to  all or any
portion of the principal amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and outstanding by
the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

2.09.  Without  limitation upon  the provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions
(renumbered  as such pursuant  to paragraph  5  of Section  II  of the Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall
promptly  furnish  to  the  Bank  such  information  relating  to  the provisions  of this
Article II  as the Bank may, from time to  time, reasonably  request.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

-3-

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment  to the Program  and its implementation.  To
this end, and further  to  Section 5.08  of the General Conditions:

the Borrower and  the Bank shall from time to time, at the request  of either
party,  exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework  and the progress achieved  in carrying out the Program;

prior  to  each  such exchange  of views,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Bank  for  its  review  and  comment,  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying  out  the  Program,  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any  situation that
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program
or  any action  taken under  the  Program  including  any  action  specified  in
Section  I of Schedule  1 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist  of the  following:

A  situation has arisen which shall make  it improbable  that the Program, or
a  significant part of it,  will be carried  out.

An action has been taken or a  policy has  been adopted  by the Borrower to
reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action listed
in Section  I of Schedule  1 to this  Agreement.

4.02.  The Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely, that  any
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for a
period  of sixty  (60)  days  after  notice of the  event  has  been  given by  the  Bank to
the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists of the  following,  namely,  that
the  Bank  is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved by  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out
the  Program  and  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy
framework.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this

Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's Representative  is its Minister of Finance  and the Public  Service.

6.02.  The Borrower's Address  is:

Ministry  of Finance and  the Public  Service
30 National  Heroes  Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica

Facsimile:

876-924-9291

6.03.  The Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  Kingston, Jamaica,  as of the day and  year first above written.

-5-

JAMAICA

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  -A"S 

w, c  ,A P

Title:  Mksro 

FmRioc-e  x

4

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authorized  epresentative

Name: 

__________

Title:

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  Taken  Under the Propram

The actions  taken by the  Borrower under the Program  include the  following:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

The  bill  entitled  the  Building  Act,  2016,  which  aims  to  facilitate  efficient
application  of  internationally  recognized  building  standards,  has  been
approved  by Jamaica's  Cabinet  and  submitted  to the  Parliament  for approval.

The Electricity Act of 2015, which introduces a new regulatory  framework that
aims  to  promote  new  investment  and  competition  in  the  electricity  industry,
has been approved  by Jamaica's  Parliament,  published in the Jamaica Gazette,
and  is  effective.

for  customs
The  Automated  System  for  Customs  Data  (ASYCUDA) 
clearance,  aimed  at  facilitating  faster  clearance  of  import  and  export
transactions, has been installed and is operational  at all major ports of entry of
Jamaica.

The  Special  Economic  Zones  Act  of  2016,  aimed  at  modernization  of the
regulatory  framework  for  economic  zones  in Jamaica, has  been approved  by
Jamaica's  Parliament,  published  in the Jamaica  Gazette, and is effective.

Jamaica's  Ministry  of  Finance  and  the  Public  Service  has  prepared  and
published  the  FY2016/17  annual  Fiscal  Risk  Statement  to  improve  the
transparency  of risks to fiscal  operations,  including risks from natural  hazards,
economic  shocks,  and contingent  liabilities  emanating from public  bodies and
public-private  partnerships.

A  bill  entitled  the  Public Debt  Management  (Amendment)  Act,  2016,  which
specifies  functions  of Jamaica's  Ministry  of Finance  and  the  Public  Service
units  related  to  debt  management  and  establishes  guidelines  for  managing
contingent  liabilities,  has been  approved  by Jamaica's  Cabinet  and submitted
to  the Parliament  for approval.

A  bill  entitled  the  Pensions  (Public  Service)  Act,  2016,  which  establishes  a
contributory pension scheme  for public  service workers, has been approved by
Jamaica's  Cabinet  and  submitted to the  Parliament  for approval.

Jamaica  has  made  operational  the  Public  Investment  Management  System
through  selection  of  the  members  of  the  Public  Investment
(PIMS) 

-7-

Management  (PIM)  Committee,  appointment  of the Executive  Director of the
PIM  Secretariat,  and approval  of the PIMS  Operational  Guidelines.

Section  H. 

Availability  of Loan  Proceeds

A. 

B. 

General.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank
may specify by notice to  the Borrower.

Allocation  of Loan Amounts.  The Loan  (except  for amounts  required to  pay the
Front-end  Fee)  is  allocated  in  a  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche,  from  which  the
Borrower  may  make  withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan to this end  is set out in the table  below:

Allocations 

(1) Single Withdrawal  Tranche 
(2)  Front-end  Fee 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

Amount of the  Loan
Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)

69,825,000
175,000
70,000,000

C. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.  No  withdrawal  shall  be made  of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied:  (a) with the Program being
carried  out  by  the  Borrower;  and  (b)  with  the  adequacy  of  the  Borrower's
macroeconomic  policy  framework.

D. 

Deposits  of Loan  Amounts.  Except  as the  Bank may  otherwise agree:

1. 

2. 

all withdrawals  from the Loan Account  shall be deposited by the Bank into
an account  designated  by the Borrower and  acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit  of an amount  of the Loan
into  this  account, an equivalent  amount  is  accounted for  in the Borrower's
budget  management  system, in  a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

E. 

Excluded  Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the  proceeds  of the Loan
shall not be used to finance  Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines  at  any
time  that  an  amount  of the Loan  was  used  to  make  a payment  for  an  Excluded
Expenditure,  the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the  Bank,  refund  an
amount  equal  to  the  amount  of such payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts  refunded  to
the Bank upon such  request  shall  be cancelled.

F. 

Closing  Date.  The Closing Date is June  30, 2018.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been fully
withdrawn as  of the  first Principal Payment Date, the principal  amount  of the Loan
repayable by the Borrower  on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date; by  (b) the Installment  Share  for each Principal Payment  Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be  adjusted, as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule, to  which a  Currency Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each May  1 and  November  1

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

Beginning November  1, 2022 
through May  1, 2042

2.50  %

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully  withdrawn  as  of the  first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each Principal Payment  Date  shall be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn  as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph 4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn within  two calendar months  prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date, be treated  as

-9-

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal  and  shall be  repayable on each Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made  after
the  adoption of such billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any  Principal Payment Date  occurring  during the Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination immediately  prior to  the Conversion by either:  (i) the  exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank under  the Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate component  of the  Screen Rate.

If the  Withdrawn Loan  Balance is  denominated  in more  than one Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply  separately to  the  amount  denominated
in each Loan Currency,  so as to produce a  separate  amortization  schedule for each
such amount.

4. 

5. 

-10-

APPENDIX

Section  I.  Definitions

1. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means any expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for  goods  or  services  supplied  under  a  contract  which  any  national  or
international  financing  institution  or  agency  other than  the Bank  or  the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed  to  finance,  or which  the  Bank  or the
Association  has  financed  or  agreed to  finance  under  another loan,  credit,
or grant;

for goods  included  in the  following  groups  or sub-groups  of the  Standard
International  Trade Classification,  Revision 3  (SITC, Rev.3), published by
the  United Nations  in  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)
(the  SITC),  or  any successor  groups  or subgroups  under  future  revisions
to the  SITC, as  designated  by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 
667 

718 

728 
897 

971 

Sub-group 

718.7 

728.43 
897.3 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured,  tobacco
refuse
Tobacco, manufactured  (whether  or
not containing  tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and associated materials
Pearls, precious  and semiprecious
stones,  unworked or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and parts  thereof;
fuel elements  (cartridges),  non-
irradiated,  for nuclear reactors
Tobacco  processing  machinery
Jewelry  of gold, silver  or platinum
group metals  (except watches  and
watch cases)  and goldsmiths'  or
silversmiths'  wares  (including  set
gems)
Gold,  non-monetary  (excluding  gold
ores  and concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for  environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the manufacture,  use  or  import  of
which  is  prohibited  under  the  laws  of  the  Borrower  or  international
agreements  to which the Borrower  is a party;

(e) 

(f) 

on account  of any payment  prohibited by a  decision of the United Nations
Security  Council  taken  under  Chapter  VII  of the Charter  of the  United
Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,
collusive  or  coercive practices  were  engaged  in  by representatives  of the
Borrower  or  other recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower
(or  other  such  recipient)  having  taken  timely  and  appropriate  action
satisfactory to  the Bank to  address  such practices  when  they occur.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set  forth in  Section II  of this Appendix.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to
promote  growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  the  letter dated  January  20,  2017,  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting assistance from the Bank in support  of the Program during its execution.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the
category  entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth in  Part B  of
Section II of Schedule  1 to this Agreement.

Section  H.  Modifications  to the General Conditions

The General  Conditions are hereby  modified  as  follows:

In the Table of  Contents, the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications  set  forth in the paragraphs  below.

The  last  sentence  of paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.03  (relating  to  Applications  for
Withdrawal)  is deleted  in its  entirety.

Sections  2.04  (Designated Accounts) and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in  their  entirety,  and  the  remaining  Sections  in  Article  II  are  renumbered
accordingly.

4. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to  read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan
amount  at the rate  specified in the Loan  Agreement (the "Front-end  Fee").

2. 

3. 

4. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

-12-

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement
(the "Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment Charge  shall  accrue from
a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective
dates  on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan
Account  or  cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-
annually  in  arrears  on each Payment  Date."

5. 

6. 

7. 

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally) and  5.09  (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits)  are  deleted  in  their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent
Sections  in Article  V are renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of Section  5.05  (renumbered  as such  pursuant  to paragraph  5 above
and  relating to  Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted  in its entirety.

Paragraph  (c) of Section 5.06  (renumbered  as such pursuant to  paragraph  5 above)
is modified  to read as  follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  (contracts,  orders,
invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date.  The Borrower shall
enable  the Bank's representatives  to  examine  such records."

8. 

Paragraph  (c) of Section 5.07  (renumbered  as such pursuant to paragraph  5 above)
is modified  to read  as  follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The  Borrower  shall prepare,  or cause to  be prepared,  and
... 
furnish  to  the  Bank  not  later  than  six  months  after  the  Closing  Date,  a
report  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably
request,  on  the  execution  of the  Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan
Parties  and  the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under  the  Legal
Agreements  and the accomplishment  of the purposes  of the  Loan."

9. 

10. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are modified,  as necessary, to  reflect the modifications  set forth  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the  remaining  paragraphs
accordingly:

-13-

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified

"19. 
in the Loan  Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is modified  to read  as follows:

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"37. 
"Eligible  Expenditure"  means any use to which the Loan is put in
support  of  the  Program,  other  than  to  finance  expenditures  excluded
pursuant  to the  Loan Agreement."

Renumbered  paragraph  44 (originally  paragraph 43)  of the Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted  in its entirety.

In paragraph  48  of the Appendix,  the definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified by
replacing  the reference  to  Section  3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).

In  paragraph  67  of the Appendix,  the  definition  of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is
modified  to read as follows:

"67. 
"Loan  Payment"  means any  amount  payable by  the  Loan Parties
to the Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements  or these General Conditions,
including (but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance,
interest, the Front-end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest  at the Default
Interest  Rate (if any),  any prepayment  premium,  any transaction  fee for  a
Conversion  or  early  termination  of  a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread
Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any premium payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate Collar,  and  any  Unwinding Amount
payable by the Borrower."

In paragraph  72 of the  Appendix,  the definition  of "Payment  Date"  is modified  by
deleting the word "is"  and inserting the words  "and Commitment  Charge are"  after
the word "interest".

The  defined  term  "Project"  in  paragraph  75  of the  Appendix  is  modified  to  read
"Program"  and  its  definition  is  modified  to  read  as  follows  (and  all  references  to
"Project"  throughout  these  General  Conditions  are  deemed  to  be  references  to
"Program"):

"75. 
in  support of which the Loan is made."

"Program"  means the program referred  to  in the  Loan Agreement

