OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8682-PE

Loan Agreement

(Strengthening the  Science,  Technology  and Innovation  System  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF PERU

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated,  O9  DE 

7-KEE  O 

, 201

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement dated  08  FE6rZE90 ,  2017, between  the REPUBLIC OF PERU ("Borrower")
the  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

and 
("Bank").  The Borrower  and the  Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees to  lend to the  Borrower, on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of forty  five  million  Dollars  ($45,000,000), as  such
amount may be converted  from  time to time through  a Currency  Conversion in  accordance
with the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan"), to  assist  in  financing the
project described  in  Schedule  I to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for purposes  of taking any
action  required  or  permitted to be  taken pursuant to this Section  is the  Borrower's Minister
of Economy and  Finance  or the  Borrower's  Director of Indebtedness  and  Public Treasury
(DGETP),  or any person  whom  any  of them  shall  designate  in  writing.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay  the Front-end  Fee not later than  sixty
(60) days  after  the Effective  Date.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable by  the Borrower for each  Interest Period  shall be at a rate equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan, the  interest payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid when  due and  such non-payment  continues for a period of thirty (30)  days, then  the

-2-

interest payable  by  the Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as provided  in Section  3.02  (e)
of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates  are May  15  and  November  15  in each  year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved  Currency; (ii)  a change  of the interest
rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate  to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa; or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa; or (C)  all of the  principal amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting  of limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate  applicable to  all or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding by the establishment  of an Interest Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be effected  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  ensure that the Project is  carried out by FONDECYT  assigned (adscrito) to
CONCYTEC,  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  through  FONDECYT
assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consist of the  following:

(a) 

the  Project  Directive  Committee  has  been  created, 
satisfactory  to the  Bank;  and

in  form  and  substance

-3-

(b) 

the  Operational  Manual  has  been  adopted  by  the  Project  Directive  Committee,  in
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

4.02.  The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety  (90)  days  after the date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Economy  and  Finance,  provided  that the
Borrower's  Director of Indebtedness  and  Public Treasury,  may, represent  the  Borrower to
to  this  Agreement  which  are  considered  of  an
sign  amendments  and/or  notices 
administrative  and  non-financial  nature.  The  signing  by  such  Director  of an  amendment
and/or  notice  shall  constitute  a  representation  by  the  Borrower  that  any  such  amendment
and/or notice  is  considered  to be  administrative and  non-financial  in  nature.

5.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Economy  and  Finance
Jr. Junin  319
Lima, Peru

Facsimile:  +51  (1) 626-9921

5.03. 

The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and  Development
1818 H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

written.

, 

,as  of the  day and  year  first above

-4-

By

REPUBLIC  OF PERU

Byy 

_

Authellm-ed  Representative

Name:  ALFREDO  T0r1\E  VETTER

Title:  MNISrO  E  E  OOMIA

/  Rr-4ANZAS

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name:  ALLe5TO  RcgRa(62

Title:  CO9rgy  &c

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the Project  is  to strengthen  the  STI  System to  improve  research  skills  and

firm-level  innovation.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part 1:  Improving  the Institutional Framework of the National  STI  System

Improving  the  institutional  framework  of  the  STI  System,  through  the  provision  of
technical  assistance to assess the efficiency and effectiveness  of STI Public  Institutions and
STI  programs  and  to  provide  recommendations  to  improve  the  overall  functioning  of the
STI  System,  through  the  implementation  of a  PER on  innovation.

Strengthening  CONCYTEC  management  capacity, through  the  provision  of technical
assistance  and  training,  and  the  acquisition  of  equipment  to  design  and  implement
integrated  information  technology,  as  well  as  monitoring  and  evaluation  systems  needed
to  monitor  programs  and  instruments  of the  STI  Public  Institutions.

Part 2:  Strateic  Programs,  Productivity  and  Innovation  Fund  and  Competitiveness
Reinforcement  Initiatives for Productive Innovation

through 

Planning  and  Capacity  Building  for  the  Strategic  Programs  on  Technological
the  design  and
the  provision  of  technical  assistance 
Innovation, 
implementation  of a  capacity  building  program,  including the  implementation  of a public-
private dialogue  mechanism  led  by CONCYTEC,  with  a  focus  on both  firms or clusters  of
firms  within  selected  industries  with the  strongest  potential  to  contribute  to the  Strategic
Programs  on  Technological  Innovation.

for 

Competitiveness  Reinforcement  Initiatives  for  Productive  Innovation,  through  the
provision  of technical  assistance to:  (a)  implement  up to five  cluster-level  CRI for  PI Pilots
in  different  regions  of the  Borrower's  territory,  which  pilots  will  identify  the  challenges
that firms  and  clusters of firms  within  selected  industries  face;  and (b)  define  a  strategy  to
address  these  challenges  and  prepare  a  detailed  technology  upgrading plan  for the  cluster
or industry  in  question  in  cooperation  with relevant  research  institutes.

Establishment  of a  Productivity  and  Innovation  Fund for  Technology  Transfer and
Upgrading  for  the  provision  of Productive  and  Innovation  Matching  Grants  functioning
on  a  competitive  basis,  to  firms  and  research  institutions  in  order  to  finance  the  activities
under the  cluster level technology  upgrading plans presented by the participants  under Part
2.2  of the  Project  as  well  as  to  firms  and  research  institutions  operating  in  the  industries
contributing  to  the  Strategic  Programs  on  Technological  Innovation  identified  under  Part
2.1  of the Project.

1.1. 

1.2. 

2.1. 

2.2. 

2.3. 

-6-

2.4. 

Impact  Evaluation  of  the  activities  under  Parts  2.2  and  2.3  of  the  Project  in  order  to
strengthen,  if needed,  the  design of the  CRI for PI  Pilots.

Part 3:  Research  and Innovation  Capacity

Provision  of financing  Integrated  Matching  Grants  or Nonintegrated  Matching  Grants  for:

3.1. 

3.2. 

3.3. 

Strengthening  Human  Capital for  STI  by  incentivizing  research  work  and  the number
and  quality  of doctorate  programs:  (i)  for research  at various  levels  of experience  (senior,
postdoctoral  and  associate)  through  a  competitive  process;  and  (ii)  to  high  education
institutions  in  the Borrower's  territory in  order to  support the  creation  and consolidation  of
world class,  high  quality doctorate programs  in science  and engineering  related to  Strategic
Programs  on  Technological  Innovation,  as  well as  cross-cutting  research  areas;

Improvements  of  Research  Equipment to  modernize,  update  and  strengthen  laboratory
equipment  of  universities  and  research  centers  through  the  acquisition  of  laboratory
equipment  with  up  to  date  technologies  related  to  Strategic  Programs  on  Technological
Innovation,  as  well  as  cross-cutting research  areas;  and

Competitive  Strategical Research  and Innovation to  support research  and technological
development  proposals related to  Strategic  Programs on  Technological  Innovation,  as well
as  cross-cutting  research  areas.

Part 4:  Proiect Management

Strengthening  the  institutional  and  organizational  capacity  of  FONDECYT,  required  for  the
successful  implementation  of Project-supported  activities,  including compliance with procurement,
safeguards,  financial  management,  and monitoring  and  evaluation  requirements.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

1. 

Institutional Setting:  To facilitate the carrying  out of the  Project by  FONDECYT
assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure that:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

the  entire  proceeds  of  the  Loan  are  made  available  to  FONDECYT
assigned (adscrito) to CONCYTEC,  under terms and  conditions  approved
by the  Bank.

is  carried  out  by  FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito)  to
the  Project 
CONCYTEC,  in accordance with the provisions  set forth in this Agreement,
and the Operational  Manual.

FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  promptly  inform
the Borrower  and the Bank of any condition which interferes  or threatens  to
interfere  with  the implementation  of the Project and the achievement  of the
objective  thereof.

FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  at  the  request  of the
Borrower  and/or the Bank,  shall  exchange  views  with the Borrower  and the
Bank  with  regard  to  the progress  of the  Project and  the achievement  of the
objective  thereof.

FONDECYT  assigned (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall promptly refund to
the  Bank  any  proceeds  from  the  Loan  not  used  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures.

FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  cooperate  with
CONCYTEC,  under  an  arrangement  with  terms and  conditions  approved
by  the Bank,  and  described  in  the Operational  Manual.

2. 

Project  Implementation  Team:  The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  FONDECYT
assigned (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall:  (a) maintain,  until the completion  of the
Project,  a  team  (the  PIT)  within  FONDECYT  responsible  for  the  management,
coordination,  supervision,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  Project,  including  all
procurement,  financial  management,  safeguard  aspects  related to the  Project;  and
(b)  hire  no  later  than  one  month  after the  Effective  Date  and  thereafter  maintain
key  staff in  said  PIT with  functions,  experience,  responsibilities  and qualifications
acceptable  to the Bank, as  described in  the Operational  Manual,  including a Project
coordinator,  an  adjunct  Project  coordinator;  at  least  three  technical  experts,  one
procurement  specialist,  one  financial  management  specialist,  one  budget  and

3. 

1 .

2. 

-8-

planning  specialist,  one  legal  specialist,  and  one  communication  specialist,  to
support  the  implementation  of the  Project.

Project  Directive  Committee:  The  Borrower,  through  CONCYTEC,  shall
maintain,  throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  a  Project  Directive
Committee:  (a)  responsible  for,  inter alia: (i) the  governance  of the  Project,  and
(ii) the  provision  of general  strategic  guidance  and  implementation  oversight  for
the  Project,  including the  procedures  for the  selection  and  approval  of Matching
Grants  proposals  under  Parts  2.3  and  3  of  the  Project;  and  (b)  chaired  by  the
President  of CONCYTEC  and  comprised  with  adequate  staff, all  with  functions,
composition,  powers,  resources  and  competencies  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  as
defined  in the Operational  Manual.

B. 

Matching  Grants

For  the  purposes  of carrying  out  Parts  2.3  and  3  of the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through
FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall ensure  the  following:

that  after  having  selected  and  approved  a proposal  presented  by  a  Beneficiary  in
accordance  with the guidelines  and procedures  set forth in the Operational  Manual,
FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  enter  into  an  agreement
with  each  said  Beneficiary  ("Matching  Grant  Agreement"),  under  terms  and
conditions  approved  by  the Bank and  included  in the Operational  Manual,  for the
provision  of  the  respective  Matching  Grant  for  the  implementation  of  said
proposal;

ensure  that  each  Matching  Grant Agreement  is  prepared  based  on  the  model  form
approved  by  the  Bank  and  included  in  the  Operational  Manual, 
in  which
FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to CONCYTEC,  shall:  (i) obtain  rights  adequate
to protect their interests and those of the Borrower  and the Bank including the right
to  suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  the  Beneficiary  to  use  the  proceeds  of the
Matching  Grant or obtain  a refund  of all  or any part of the  amount of the Matching
Grant  then  withdrawn,  upon  the  Beneficiary's  failure  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under  the  Matching  Grant  Agreement  and  inform  the  Borrower,  the
Project  Directive  Committee  and  the  Bank;  (ii)  require  each  Beneficiary  to carry
out  the  approved  proposal  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance
with  sound  technological,  environmental,  social, 
innovation  and  scientific
standards  and  practices  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  Loan
proceeds  other than the Borrower and the ESMF;  (iii)  provide, promptly as needed,
the resources  required  for the  carrying out of the proposal;  (iv)  procure  the goods,
non-consulting  services  and  consultants'  services  to  be  financed  out  of  the
Matching  Grant  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  the
Operational  Manual;  and  (v) enable  the  PIT  and the  Bank to  inspect  the  pertinent
proposal,  its  operation  and any  relevant  records  and  documents;  and

-9-

3. 

that  FONDECYT  assigned (adscrito) to CONCYTEC,  shall  exercise its rights  and
carry  out its  obligations  under each  Matching  Grant Agreement  in  such manner  as
to  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower,  CONCYTEC  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,
the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,
shall  not assign,  amend, abrogate,  waive, terminate or fail to  enforce  any Matching
Grant  Agreement or any  provisions thereof.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall ensure that  the Project  is  carried  out in  accordance  with the  provisions
of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

D. 

Operational Manual  and Safeguards

1 .

Operational Manual

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that
CONCYTEC  and  FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  not
amend  or waive  the  Operational  Manual,  or any  provision  thereof, or  permit  any
such  provision  to  be  amended  or  waived.  In  case  of any  conflict  between  the
provisions  of the  Operational  Manual  and  the  provisions  of this  Agreement,  the
provisions  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

2. 

Environmental Management  Framework (EMF)

a. 

b. 

c. 

The Borrower, through FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,
shall:  (i) implement  the  Project  in accordance  with the  EMF;  (ii)  comply
with  the  procedures  detailed  in  said  EMF  for  environmental  screening,
evaluation, implementation  and  monitoring  of Matching  Grant proposals,
including  the  procedures  for  the  preparation  of  environmental  and/or
social  management  plans,  if applicable;  and  (iii)  implement  and/or  cause
to  be  implemented,  the  pertinent  environmental  and  social  management
plan  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  EMF  in  a  manner
acceptable  to the  Bank.

the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, 

the  Borrower,  through
Except  as 
FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC  shall  not  amend  or
waive  the  Environmental  Management  Framework  (and  any  subsequent
plan),  or  any  provision  thereof,  or  permit  any  such  provision  to  be
amended  or waived.  In case  of any conflict  between  the  provisions  of the
Environmental  Management  Framework  (or any subsequent plan),  and the
provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  shall
prevail.

The Borrower, through  FONDECYT  assigned (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,
shall  ensure  that  the terms  of reference  for  any  consultancy  in  respect  of
any  Project  activity  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  following  its  review

-10-

thereof and, to  that  end  such terms  of reference  shall  duly  incorporate the
requirements  of the  applicable  Bank Safeguards  Policies,  as applied to the
advice  conveyed  through  such technical  assistance.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and  Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

B. 

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

1. 

2. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower,  through  FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC  shall
monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare  Project  Reports  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on
the  basis  of  indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  set  forth  in  the  Operational
Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the period  of one  calendar  semester,  and
shall  be furnished to  the Bank not  later than  one  month  after the  end of the period
covered by  each  such report.

For  purposes  of  Section  5.08  (c)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the  report  on  the
execution  of the  Project and related  plan  required  pursuant to that  Section  shall be
furnished to the  Bank not later than  five  (5) months after the  Closing Date.

shall  ensure 

The  Borrower 
(adscrito)  to
CONCYTEC,  shall  maintain  or  cause to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

that  FONDECYT, 

assigned 

The  Borrower,  through  FONDECYT,  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall
prepare  and  furnish to the  Bank not  later than forty-five  (45)  days  after the end of
each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project
covering the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

The Borrower,  through  FONDECYT,  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall
have  the  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Section  5.09 (b)  of the General  Conditions. Each audit  of the Financial Statements
shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower,  or  any  other  period
agreed  with  the  Bank  (not  exceeding  18  months).  The  audited  Financial
Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be furnished  to  the Bank  not later than  six
(6)  months after the  end of such  period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A. 

General

1. 

Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for the  Project  and to be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall  be
procured  in  accordance  with the  requirements  set  forth or  referred  to  in  Section  I
of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  and with  the provisions  of this Section.

2. 

3. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

-11-

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with the  provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used below  in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described 
Procurement  Guidelines, or Sections II, 1II,  IV and V  of the Consultant Guidelines,
as  the case  may  be.

B. 

Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following methods,  other than  International  Competitive  Bidding, may  be used for
procurement  of goods and  non-consulting  services  for those  contracts specified  in
the Procurement  Plan:  (a) National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject to  the additional
provisions  set  forth  in  the  following  paragraph;  (b)  Shopping;  and  (c)  Direct
Contracting.

Special  procurement  provisions:  The  following  shall  apply to  the  procurement
of  goods,  non-consulting  services  for  National  Competitive  Bidding  under  the
Project:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Foreign bidders  shall  not be  required to be locally registered  as a condition
of participation  in the bidding  selection  process;

No reference  value (precio referencial) shall  be required  for publication  in
the bidding  documents or used  for the  purpose  of bid  evaluation;

Award  of  contracts  shall  be  based  exclusively  on  price  and,  whenever
into  account  factors  that  can  be  quantified
appropriate,  shall  take 
objectively, and the procedure  for such quantification  shall  be disclosed  in
the  invitation to bid;

Foreign  bidders  shall  be  allowed  to  participate  in  National  Competitive
Biddings  without  restriction,  and  shall  not  be  subject  to  any  unjustified
requirement  which  will  affect  their  ability  to  bid  such  as,  but  not  limited
to,  the requirement  to authenticate  (legalizar) their bidding  documents  or
any  document  related  to  such  bidding  documents  with  either  Peruvian
Consulates,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Foreign  Affairs,  or  any  Peruvian
authorities  as  a  prerequisite  of bidding;  and

-12-

(e) 

FONDECYT,  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  use  standard
bidding  documents  and standard  evaluation  formats;  all  satisfactory  to the
Bank.

C. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

1 .

2. 

3. 

Quality-  and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts  which  are  specified  in the
Procurement  Plan:  (a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
Budget; 
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms;  (f) Procedures  set
forth  in  paragraphs  5.1  and  5.5  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  for the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of
Individual  Consultants.

(c)  Least  Cost-Selection; 

Special  provisions  for Consultants'  Services.  In  addition  and  without  limitation
or  restriction to  any  other  provisions  set forth  in  this  section  or in  the  Consultant
Guidelines,  the  following  provisions  shall  govern  all  procurement  of consultants'
services:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  be  locally  registered  as  a
condition  of participation  in  the  selection  process;

Foreign  consultants  shall  not  be  required  to  authenticate  (legalizar) any
documentation  related  to  their  participation  in the  selection  process  with
Peruvian  Consulates,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Foreign  Affairs,  or any
Peruvian  authorities  as  a  condition  of  participation  in  said  selection
process;

FONDECYT,  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall  use  standard
requests  for proposals  and  standard  evaluation  formats,  all  satisfactory  to
the  Bank;

Foreign  consultants,  either  individuals,  or  firms,  shall  not  be  required  to
pay  fees  to  the  Peruvian  Consultants'  Association  that  are  different  from
those  required  for Peruvian  consultants';  and

No  individual  consultant financed out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall, at
the  time  he  or  she  is  carrying  out  his  or  her  contractual  obligations  as
consultant,  hold civil  service  office or any  other position  in any agency  or
instrumentally  of the  Borrower,  nor  shall  such  consultant  have  any  right
to  re-entry  into  any  such  office  or position  upon  the  conclusion  of his  or
her consulting  services.

-13-

D. 

Review  by  the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan shall  set  forth those  contracts,  which  shall be  subject  to the  Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall be  subject to  Post  Review by  the Bank.

E. 

Procurement Plan  Execution  System

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  shall:
i)  supply  the  STEP  with  the  information  contained  in  the  initial  Procurement  Plan  within
sixty  (60)  days  after  the  date  of this  Agreement;  and  ii)  update  the  Procurement  Plan  at
least once  a year, or as  needed throughout the  duration  of the Project,  as  determined  by the
Bank, to reflect the actual  Project implementation  needs and  progress and, supply the STEP
with  the information  contained  in the  updated  Procurement  Plan  immediately  thereafter.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower,  through  FONDECYT  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,  may
withdraw the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  1I
of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank
Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised  from  time  to
time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such
instructions),  to finance  Eligible  Expenditures as  set  forth  in the table  in paragraph
2  below.

The  following table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

25,391,600 

100%  of the amounts
disbursed  under  each
Matching  Grant

and 

required 

non-consulting
(1)  Goods, 
consultants' 
services, 
services,  Operating  Costs  and 
for 
Training 
Matching  Grants  under  Parts
2.3,  3.1  (ii),  3.2  and  3.3  of the
Project
(2)  Training,  non-consulting
consultants' 
services 
for 
services 
Matching  Grants  under  Part
3.1  (i)  of the  Project

required 

and 

13,765,800

100% of amounts  disbursed

-14-

5,842,600

45,000,000

and 

(3)  Goods,  non-consulting
services, 
consultants' 
services,  Operating  Costs  and 
Training  required  under  the
Project,  excluding  Parts  2.3
and  3  of the  Project

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

100%

B. 

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

from  the  Loan Account  until  the Bank  has  received  payment  in  full  of the
Front-end  Fee;  or

under  Category  (2),  until  and  unless:  (i) FONDECYT  assigned (adscrito)
to  CONCYTEC,  has  selected  a  Third  Party  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  III  of  this  Schedule  for  purposes  of  assisting
FONDECYT  in  the  carrying  out  of said  Part  of the  Project;  and  (ii)  a
contract  has  been  signed  between  FONDECYT  and  said  Third  Party,  on
terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter
alia, the  obligation  of the Third  Party  to  assist  FONDECYT  in managing
Part 3.1  (i) of the  Project.

2. 

The Closing Date  is December  31,  2021.

-15-

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the Loan  and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment Share").  If the proceeds of the  Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as of the  first Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b) the  Installment
Share for each  Principal Payment Date,  such repayable  amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

May  15,  2022 
November  15,  2022 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)
50%
50%

2. 

If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn  as of the first  Principal Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  Borrower  shall  repay the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as
of such date  in  accordance  with paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the  date of such  withdrawal  in  amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  the  amount  of each  such withdrawal  by  a
fraction, the  numerator  of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

Amounts  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  within  two  (2)  calendar  months  prior  to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal
amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and
outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of
withdrawal  and  shall  be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing
with the second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date of withdrawal.

3. 

(a) 

-16-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time  the Bank adopts  a due  date billing  system  under which  invoices  are issued  on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption  of such
billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance to  an Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date  occurring during the Conversion  Period,  shall be determined  by the Bank  by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i) the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange rate  component  of the  Screen  Rate.

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines  on Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Bank  Safeguards  Policies"  means  the  Bank's  operational  policies  and  procedures  set
forth  in  the  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under  OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,
under
4.36, 
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/PROJECTS/EXTPOLICIES/EXTSAF
EPOL/0,,menuPK:584441~pagePK:64168427-piPK:64168435-theSitePK:584435,00.ht
ml.

said  manual 

published 

4.37, 

7.50 

7.60 

and 

as 

is 

"Beneficiary"  means  any  firm,  higher  education  institution,  research  institute,  individual
researcher  or  teams  of  researchers,  which  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual  to  receive  a  Matching  Grant.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"CONCYTEC"  means  Consejo  Nacional  de  Ciencia,  Tecnologia  e  Innovaci6n
Tecnol6gica, the Borrower's National Council for Science,  Technology, and Technological
Innovation,  a  specialized  technical  entity  (organismo) assigned (adscrito) to  PCM,  as
established  and operating  under the  Borrower's  Law No  28303  dated  July  27, 2004.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment  of Consultants
under  IBRD  Loans and  IDA  Credits and  Grants  by  World Bank  Borrowers"  dated January
2011  (revised  July  2014).

"CRI  for  PI  Pilots"  means  competitiveness  reinforcement  initiatives  for  productive
innovation  to  be  carried  out  under  Part  2.2  of the  Project.

"Environmental  Management  Framework  or  EMF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework
dated  September  13,  2016,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and  available  to  the  public
on  the  website  http://www.cienciactiva.gob.pe/images/documentos/informes/Informe-de-
salvaguardas-Ambientales-Banco-Mundial.pdf,  and on Bank's InfoShop  on September  19,
2016,  which  contains  the  environmental  protection  measures  in  respect  of  the  Project,
including,  inter alia: (a) measures  for chance findings  of cultural  property;  (b)  guidelines  for
the  identification  of existing  environmental  conditions  and  potential  direct  and  indirect
environmental  impacts  resulting from  the carrying  out of the Project;  (c)  guidelines  for the
carrying  out  of  environmental  assessments  and  the  preparation  of  environmental
management  plans,  when  applicable;  (d)  the  recommendation  of mitigation  measures  for
each  negative  impact  identified;  and  (e)  measures  for enhancing  each  identified  positive
impact,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  agreement  of the
Bank.

-18-

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"FONDECYT"  means  Fondo  Nacional  de  Desarrollo  Cientifico,  Tecnol6gico y  de
Innovacidn Tecnol6gica, the  Borrower's  National  Fund  for  Scientific,  Technological  and
Innovation  Development,  an  implementation  agency  assigned  (adscrito) to  CONCYTEC,
as  established  and  operating under the  Borrower's  Law No 28303  dated July  27,  2004.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and  Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated March  12,  2012,  with the  modifications  set  forth  in
Section  II  of this Appendix.

"Integrated  Matching  Grant"  means  a  grant  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  out  of  the
proceeds  of the  Loan  under Part  3  of the  Project  to  finance  integrated  calls  for proposals
(i.e.  including human  capital,  research  equipment  and research  and development  initiatives
bundled together) for the  activities  mentioned  in  said  Part  of the  Project.

"Matching  Grant"  means  collectively  a  Productive  Innovation  Matching  Grant,  an
Integrated  Matching Grant,  and  a Nonintegrated  Matching  Grant.

"Matching  Grant  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Nonintegrated  Matching  Grant"  means  a  grant  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  out  of the
proceeds  of the Loan under Part 3  of the Project to finance  nonintegrated  calls for proposals
(i.e.  including  human  capital,  research  equipment  or research  and  development  initiatives
carried  out  individually)  in  order  to  support  the  activities  mentioned  in  said  Part  of the
Project.

"Operating  Costs"  means the  following  incremental  recurrent  expenditures  of the  Project:
(i)  operation  and  maintenance  of  vehicle,  repairs,  fuel  and  spare  parts;  (ii)  computer
maintenance,  including  hardware  and  software;  (iii)  communication  costs  and  shipment
costs  (whenever  these  costs  are  not included  in the  cost of goods);  (iv)  office  supplies;  (v)
rent  and  maintenance  of  office  facilities;  (vi)  utilities  and  insurances,  including  health
insurances  and  health-related  services;  (vii) travel  and  per diem  costs  for technical  staff
carrying  out training,  supervisory  and  quality  control  activities;  (viii)  salaries  of support
staff  for  FONDECYT,  but  excluding  salaries  of  the  Borrower's  civil  servants  and
FONDECYT  regular  staff.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  operational  manual  for  the  Project  to  be  adopted  by  the
Borrower,  through  the Project  Directive Committee  and found  satisfactory to the Bank and
which  shall  contain,  inter alia: (i)  the terms of reference,  functions  and responsibilities  for
the members  or personnel  of the  PIT and the  Project  Directive Committee;  (ii)  the criteria,
detailed  rules  and  procedures  for  the  selection,  approval  and  the  financing  of proposals
under  Parts  2.3  and  3  of the  Project;  (iii)  the  procedures  for  procurement  of goods,  non-
consulting  services,  consultants'  services,  Operational  Costs,  and  Training,  as  well  as  for
financial  management  and  audits  under  the  Project;  (iv)  the  indicators  to  be  used  in  the
monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  Project;  (v)  the  flow and  disbursement  arrangements  of
Project  funds;  (vi)  the  model  form  for  the  Matching  Grant Agreements;  (vii)  the terms  of
reference  for  the Third  Party, the  financial  audit, the  internal  audit and  other audits  for the
Project;  (viii)  the  grievance  redress  mechanisms;  (ix)  the  Environmental  Management

-19-

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

Framework;  and  (x)  any  such  other  administrative,  financial,  technical  and  organizational
arrangements  and  procedures  as  shall  be  required for  the  Project;  as  said  manual  may  be
amended  from  time  to time with the  Bank's  prior and written  approval.

"PCM"  means  Presidencia del  Consejo de Ministros, the  Borrower's  Presidency  of the
Council  of Ministers,  as  established  and  operating  under  the  Borrower's  Law  No  29158
dated  December  20, 2007.

"PER"  means  public  expenditure  review.

"PIT"  means  the  Project  Implementation  Team  created  within  FONDECYT  and  referred
to  in  Section  I A  2  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement  or any  successor to  thereto acceptable
to  the Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised  July  2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means FONDECYT's procurement  plan for the Project, dated October
12,  2016  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph
1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance  with  the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Productive  Innovation  Matching  Grant"  means  a grant  made  or proposed  to  be  made  out
of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  under  Part  2.3  of the  Project  for  activities  under  the  cluster
level technology  upgrading plan presented by  Beneficiaries  under Part 2.2 (b) of the Project
as  well  as  for  Beneficiaries  operating  in  the  industries  contributing  to  the  Strategic
Programs  on Technological  Innovation  identified under  Part  2.1  of the Project.

"Project  Directive  Committee"  means  the  committee  referred  to  in  Section  1 A  4  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement  or any  successor to thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"STEP" means  Systematic  Tracking  on  Exchanges  in  Procurement,  the  Bank's  publicly
accessible  procurement  plan  system.

"STI" means  science,  technology  and  innovation.

"STI Public  Institutions"  means  the institutions  established  in  the  Borrower's territory  and
operating  in  the  area of science, technology  and  innovation,  as  listed  and  described  in  the
Operational  Manual,  as  said  list may  be  updated  from  time  to  time  with  the  Bank's  prior
and  written  approval.

"STI  System"  means  the  Borrower's  national  system  of  science,  technology,  and
innovation,  which  includes  all  relevant  public  and  private  higher  education  institutions,
universities,  service  providers, research  centers,  Borrower's ministries  and their respective
sector-oriented  research  and  technology  organizations  and  funding  programs,  as  well  as
firms  involved  in  scientific research  and  innovation.

-20-

28. 

29. 

30. 

"Strategic  Programs  on  Technological  Innovation"  means  the  programs  established  by
CONCYTEC  on  technological  innovation,  as  described  in  the  document  "Proyecto:
Mejoramiento y ampliaci6n de los servicios del Sistema Nacional de Ciencia, Tecnologia
e Innovaci6n Tecnoldgica ", Estudio de Preinversi6n a nivel de Factibilidad. C6digo SNIP:
317848. Ano 2016" and  referenced  in more  detail  in the Operational  Manual.

"Third  Party"  means  the  entity  referred  to  in  Section  IV.B.1  (c)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Training"  means workshops and training expenditures  under the Project,  including purchase
and  publication  of  materials,  rental  of  facilities,  course  fees,  study  tours,  scholarships,
stipends,  travel  and  subsistence  for  participants  of  workshops,  trainers  and  trainees  (if
applicable).

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are  hereby  modified as follows:

1. 

In  the Table  of Contents,  the references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are modified  to reflect the  modifications  set forth in the paragraphs  below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at  the rate

(a) 
specified  in  the Loan  Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

(b) 
The Borrower shall  pay the Bank a commitment  charge  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement to  the respective  dates on  which  amounts  are  withdrawn  by the  Borrower  from
the  Loan  Account or  cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually
in  arrears  on  each  Payment  Date."

3. 

4. 

5. 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are modified, as necessary,  to reflect  the  modification  set forth  in paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting a  new paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge", and  renumbering  the  subsequent paragraphs  accordingly:

"19. 
Agreement  for the  purpose of Section 3.01(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

In the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified by  replacing the reference  to  Section 3.01  with  Section  3.01
(a).

-21-

6. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the Appendix,  the  definition
of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified to  read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including  (but not limited
interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance, 
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or  early termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

7. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the Appendix,  the  definition
of  "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge  are"  after the word "interest".

