OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  8675-UY

Loan Agreement

(Improving the Quality of Initial  and  Primary  Education  in  Uruguay  Project)

REPUBLICA ORIENTAL  DEL URUGUAY

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  March 22,  2017

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  March  22,  2017,  between  REPUBLICA  ORIENTAL  DEL
URUGUAY  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").  The Borrower  and the Bank  hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I  - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context requires  otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the Appendix
to this Agreement.

2.01. 

2.02. 

2.03. 

2.05. 

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

The Bank agrees  to lend to  the Borrower, on the terms  and conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of forty  million  Dollars  ($40,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Section  2.08  of this  Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  this
Agreement  ("Project").

The Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds of the Loan in  accordance  with  Section
IV of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

The  Front-end  Fee payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment Charge payable  by the Borrower shall  be  equal to one quarter  of

one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  however,  that  the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero
percent  (0%) per  annum;  and provided  furthermore  that, upon  a  Conversion of all
or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as
provided  in  Section  3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

-2-

2.06.  The  Payment Dates  are  February  15  and August  15  in each year.

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule  set forth in  Schedule  3  to this  Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any time  request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the terms  of the  Loan  in order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate, or vice  versa;  or  (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or  vice versa; or  (C) all  of the principal  amount  of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from  a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a  Variable  Rate  based on a Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting of
limits on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all or  any
portion  of the principal amount of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding  by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar on the
Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion  requested  pursuant  to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the
Project  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  V  of the General  Conditions
and the Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project  is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2  to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Event of Suspension consists  of the following,  namely that the Law
No.  18.437  or  any  provision  thereof  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed,  waived  or not  enforced  in  such  a manner  so  as to  materially

-3-

and  adversely  affect,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Bank,  the  ability  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event of Acceleration  consists  of the following,  namely that, any

event  specified  in Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Additional  Condition of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely that,
the  Inter-Administrative Agreement  has  been  executed on  behalf of the Borrower
and the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in a  manner  acceptable  to the  Bank.

5.02.  The  Additional  Legal  Matters  consist  of the  following,  namely,  that  the  Inter-
Administrative  Agreement,  has  been duly  authorized  or  ratified  by,  and  executed
and delivered  on behalf of, the Borrower and the Project  Implementing Entity, and
is  legally  binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in
accordance  with the terms of the  Inter-Administrative  Agreement.

5.03. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Minister of Economy  and Finance.

6.01. 

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address is:
Ministerio  de  Economia y Finanzas
Colonia No.  1089,  Piso 3
Montevideo,  Uruguay
Facsimile:  5982  1712  2688
e-mail:  organismos.multilaterales(amef  ub.uv

6.03. 

The Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-4-

AGREED  at Montevideo,  Uruguay, as  of the day  and year first above written.

REPUBLICA  ORIENTAL  DEL URUGUAY

Authorized  Repr  entative

Name:

Title:______

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

(auP Iff73CO11

Title: 

'6  x,(-oa-

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objectives  of the Project are to improve the teaching  practices and the learning
environment  in  early  and primary  education,  as  well  as  the internal  efficiency  in  primary
education,  all  in  Full-Time  Schools,  and  to  strengthen  the  evaluation  capacity  of the
education  system.

The  Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part 1. Early Education

1. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

Provision of support to increase access  to early  education, through  the construction
and/or  rehabilitation  of approximately  twenty  (20)  classrooms  in  selected  Full-
Time  Schools  for three-year  old students,  including  the  acquisition  of equipment
for said  Full-Time Schools.

Provision  of support  for:  (a)  the  setting  up  of libraries  (including  a  mobile  shelf
space)  and  the  acquisition  of didactic games  and  toys  in  every  selected  Full-Time
School  with  a classroom  for three year old  students;  (b)  the scaling-up  of an  early-
childhood evaluation  (EIT)  to assess  students  across a  number  of key  dimensions
such  as  self-awareness,  awareness  of the  environment,  social  abilities,  language,
communication,  and motor skills;  (c)  the development of a  local  version of an EIT;
and  (d)  the  carrying  out of activities  aimed  at  using  the information  produced  by
the  EIT referred  to in (b)  herein.

Provision  of in-service  training for early  education teachers  of Full-Time  Schools,
through,  inter  alia: (a)  the  design  of  an  in-service  training  course  on  early
education;  and (b)  the  implementation  of said  training  course.

Part 2.  Primary Education

(a)  Construction  and/or  rehabilitation  of  approximately  twenty  (20)  selected
primary  Full-Time  Schools,  including  the acquisition  of equipment  for said  Full-
Time  Schools;  and  (b)  (i)  carrying  out  of preventive  maintenance  activities  in
selected  Full-Time  Schools;  and  (ii)  provision  of technical  assistance  to  school
management  committees  to  manage  and  coordinate  said  preventive  maintenance
activities.

Provision  of technical  assistance  to supervisors  and school principals  of Full-Time
Schools,  including,  inter alia, the  provision  of training  and  the  preparation  of
guidelines  on  classroom  management,  periodic  evaluations  of learning,  learning
planning and  allocation  of teacher's  time.

-6-

3. 

1 .

2. 

1. 

Provision  of  in-service  training  for  primary  education  teachers  of  Full-Time
Schools,  through,  inter  alia: (a)  the  adjustment  of  existing  in-service  training
programs to foster modem pedagogies  adapted to the special  needs and bottlenecks
of the Borrower's  education system; (b)  the acquisition  of goods required therefor;
(c)  the  provision  of technical  and  operational  support  to  CEIP's  teacher  training
institute.

Part 3.  Transition  between  Primary and Secondary  Education

(a)  Strengthening  the second  cycle  of primary  education  through  the provision of
in-service  training  for  sixth  grade  teachers  of  Full-Time  Schools  in  providing
remedial  support  to  students  most at-risk  in the transition  to secondary  education;
and (b)  carrying  out of a pilot remedial  course  for sixth grade at-risk students aimed
at providing them with the tools needed to  succeed in their transition  to secondary
education,  including the  carrying  out  of a study  concerning  the short-term  impact
of said  pilot  remedial  course.

Provision of support  for the setting up of pilot alliances  between  Full-Time  Schools
(providing  primary  education)  and secondary  schools,  in order to support  primary
education graduates  sustain their accomplishments  in their trajectory  to secondary
education,  through,  inter  alia: (a)  the  fostering  of  student  exchanges  to  help
primary  students  gather  information,  align  expectations  and  provide  academic
preparation  for  the transition  to  secondary  education;  and  (b)  the carrying  out  of
seminars  between primary  education teachers  of Full-Time Schools  and secondary
education  teachers.

Part 4.  Monitoring and Evaluation System

Strengthening  the  evaluation  capacity  of  the  Borrower's  education  system,
through,  inter alia: (a) the  carrying  out  of standardized  learning  evaluations  to
identify learning  gaps and students at risk by evaluating  the learning achievements
of students  at  the  end  of the  second  grade;  (b)  the  enhancement  of the  GURI's
functioning through  the provision of support for:  (i)  the incorporation  of new  data
fields  in  the  system;  and  (ii)  the  improvement  of GURI's  interactive  platforms'
design;  (c)  the design and maintenance  of an early-warning  system to target at risk
students  with  specific  programs;  (d)  the  carrying  out  of  at  least  two  impact
evaluations  to  understand  the  impact  of  key  components  of  the  Project  and/or
identify  promising  low-cost  innovations  that  could  be  easily  scaled-up;  (e)  the
carrying out of a nationwide  diagnosis  on gender equality  for the education  sector;
and  (f)  the provision of technical  support  for the carrying  out of any other  studies,
evaluations  and/or  assessments  on  early  and  primary  education  activities  to
develop education  policies  acceptable  to the Bank.

2. 

Provision  of  support  for  the  implementation,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the
Project,  including  the  provision  of technical  assistance  to  enhance  the  Project's
communication  strategy  and  disseminate the  impact  of the Project's  activities.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Inter-Administrative Agreement

A. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

To  facilitate the carrying  out of the Project,  the Borrower  shall make  the proceeds
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  under  a  subsidiary
agreement  between the Borrower and the Project Implementing  Entity, under terms
and conditions  approved  by the Bank  (the "Inter-Administrative  Agreement").

The Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights and carry  out its obligations  under the  Inter-
Administrative  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  the
Borrower and the  Bank and to accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.  Except  as the
Bank shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall not assign, amend,  abrogate, waive,
terminate  or  fail  to  enforce  the  Inter-Administrative  Agreement  or  any  of  its
provisions.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  and  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to
ensure,  that the Project is carried out in accordance  with the provisions  of the Anti-
Corruption  Guidelines.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure  that  the
Project  is carried  out  in accordance  with the  provisions  of the Environmental  and
Social  Management  Framework  and the Resettlement  Policy  Framework.

The Borrower  shall  cause the Project Implementing  Entity to  ensure that the terms
of reference  for  any  consultancies  related  to  the  technical  assistance  provided
under the Project, shall  be acceptable to the Bank following its review  thereof and,
to  that end,  such terms  of reference  shall  duly  incorporate  the requirement  of the
Bank's  Safeguard Policies then in force,  as applied to the advice conveyed through
such  technical  assistance.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting! and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (a)  monitor  and
evaluate  the progress  of the Project and prepare Project Reports;  and (b)  furnish to

-8-

the Bank said Project Reports, all  as provided  in Section  II.A.1  of the Schedule  to
the Project  Agreement.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the Project  Implementing  Entity  to maintain  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section, the  Borrower shall
cause  the  Project Implementing  Entity to  prepare  and  furnish to  the Bank  as  part
of  the  Project  Report,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project,  as
provided  in Section  II.B.2 of the Schedule  to the Project  Agreement.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  have  its  financial
statements  audited  as  provided  in  Section  II.B.3  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

Section  III. 

Procurement

All  goods, works, non-consulting  services and consulting  services  required for the
Project  and  to  be  financed  out of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  III  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article  II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated  May  2006,  as  revised
from time to time by the Bank  and as  made applicable to  this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in the  table  in
paragraph  2  below.

The  following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in each Category.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

-9-

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

3,000,000 

36,900,000 

100%  of the amount of the
Loan allocated  to  each DLI,
as  set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to
this Agreement
100%

Category 

(1)  Preventive 

Maintenance 
Expenditures 

(2)  Goods, works, 

consulting  services,
non-consulting
services,  Training  and
Operating  Costs under
the Project (except
under Part  2.1(b)(i)  of
the  Project)
(3) Front-end  Fee 

100,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement  in accordance with
Section 2.07  (b)  of the  General
Conditions

of 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

40,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed eight million Dollars
($ 8,000,000)  may be made  for payments  made  prior to this date  but on or
after March  1, 2016  (but in no case more than one (1) year prior to the date
of this Agreement),  for Eligible  Expenditures,  provided  that  the pertinent
obligations/conditions  set  forth  in this  Agreement  and  in  the  Additional
Instructions,  as  applicable 
to  each  Eligible  Expenditure  have  been
complied  with  in  a  manner  acceptable  to the Bank;  and

under  Category  (1),  unless  the  Borrower  has  furnished  to  the  Bank  in
respect  of  any  DLI  upon  submission  by  the  Borrower,  supporting
documentation  acceptable  to the Bank  confirming  the achievement  of the
respective  DLI  or  DLIs,  as 
the  Additional
Instructions.

further  elaborated 

in 

-10-

2. 

3. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1(a)  and  1(b)  of this  Section,  if the
Bank  is  not  satisfied  that  any  DLI  under  Category  (1)  has  been  achieved  by  the
date  by  which the respective  DLI  is  set  to be  achieved,  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  4
to  this  Agreement,  the  Bank  may  at  any  time,  and  by  notice  to  the  Borrower,
decide,  in its  sole discretion to:

(a) 

(b) 

withhold the unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the Loan then allocated  to said DLI
(other than DL1  3) until  the Bank  is  satisfied that  said DL1  has been  fully
achieved;  or

(i) reallocate  all  or a portion of the proceeds  of the Loan then allocated  to
said DLI to any other DLI;  and/or (ii)  cancel  all or a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated  to said DLI.

If, at  any time, the Bank determines  that any portion of the amounts  withdrawn  by
the Borrower  under Category  (1) was made:  (i) for ineligible  expenditures;  or (ii)
not  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1(b)  of  this  Section,  the
Borrower  shall  promptly  refund  any  such  amount  to  the  Bank  as  the  Bank  shall
specify  by notice to the Borrower.  The  Bank may  cancel  such refunded  amount.

4. 

The  Closing  Date is  May  31,  2022.

Section  V. 

Other Undertakings

Without  limitation to the provisions set  forth  in Section  5.02(b)  of the General  Conditions,
the  Borrower  shall  take all necessary  actions to  enable  the Project  Implementing Entity to
comply  with its  obligations under  the Project Agreement.

-11-

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  fully
withdrawn  as  of the first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount of the Loan
repayable  by the Borrower  on each Principal  Payment Date shall  be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment Date; by  (b)  the Installment  Share  for each Principal  Payment Date,  such
repayable  amount to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any amounts  referred to
in  paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each  February  15  and August  15
Beginning  February  15,  2022
through August  15,  2026 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

10%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not  been  fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that any proceeds  of the  Loan have  been withdrawn as  of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined by  the Bank by multiplying the amount
of each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any
amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the Loan  withdrawn  within  two  calendar  months  prior  to any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment Date,  be treated  as
withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date

-12-

following the date  of withdrawal  and  shall be  repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due  date billing system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective Principal  Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall  no longer apply to  any withdrawals  made  after
the adoption of such  billing system.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date  occurring during the Conversion Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination immediately  prior to the Conversion by  either:  (i) the exchange rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by the
Bank under  the Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the
exchange  rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

4. 

5. 

If the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  is  denominated  in more  than  one Loan  Currency,
the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the amount  denominated
in each  Loan Currency,  so as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each
such  amount.

-13-

SCHEDULE  4

ECD 
teachers  of 
FTS use 
mobile 
libraries at 
least  once a 
week 

2021

2018 

2020 

Disbursement-Linked  Indicators,
(by June 30 of each  year or as otherwise  indicated herein)
2019 
DLI  3:
60% of ECD
teachers  (from
a  baseline  of
30 ECD
teachers)  of
FTS which
have  installed
a mobile
library  use
mobile
libraries  at
least once a
week during
10
consecutive
months  prior
to January  1,
2019
(Amount:
US$400,000)

ECD 
assessment 
results 
inform first 
grade 
teachers 

DLI  1: 
ECD 
assessment 
results 
integrated  into 
GURI's 
database 
(Amount: 
US$500,000) 

DLI  6:
Local  ECD
assessment  is
developed  and
approved  by the
Project
Implementing
Entity
(Amount
US$600,000)

DLI 5: 
60% of first 
grade teachers 
of all  FTS 
(operating  as 
of January  1, 
2020)  have 
digital  access 
to  students' 
ECD 
assessment
results
(Amount:
US$600,000)

-14-

DLI 4:
60% of ECD
teachers  of all
FTS
(operating  as
of January  1,
2019)  apply
protocols  for
at-risk
students
(Amount:
US$400, 000)

ECD 
teachers  of 
FTS apply 
protocols  for 
at-risk 
students 

ECD 
teachers  of 
FTS accredit 
in-service 
training 
courses 

DLI 2
Guidelines  for
ECD teaching
practices  are
revised and
published by
the Project
Implementing
Entity
(Amount:
US$500, 00)
usUS$ 
1,000,000 

800,000 

US$  600,000 

US$600,000

__S$ 

1 

1

-15-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Additional  Instructions"  means  the instructions  referred  to  in  Section  TV.A. 1 of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011  and  as
of July  1, 2016.

"Bank  Safeguard  Policies"  means  the Bank's operational  policies  and  procedures
set  forth  in  the  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04.  4.09,  4.10,
4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60,  as  said  manual 
is  published  under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth  in the table in Section  IV  of Schedule  2 to
this  Agreement.

"ECD" means  early  childhood development.

"CEIP" means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  Primary  Education  Council
(Consejo de Educaci6n Inicialy Primaria).

"Disbursement-Linked  Indicator"  or  "DLI"  means  any  given indicator  set  forth  in
Schedule  4  of  this  Agreement,  the  achievement  of  which  is  a  condition  for
disbursement  of Loan proceeds  under Category  (1).

"EIT" means  early-childhood  evaluation.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's
framework,  dated  October 2016,  acceptable  to the  Bank, published  in the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  website on  October  7,  2016  and on  the Bank's  website  on
October  7,  2016,  and included  in  the  Operational  Manual,  which  sets  forth,  inter
alia: (a)  the  applicable  institutional  and  regulatory  environmental  framework
governing  the Project;  (b)  the  guidelines  for carrying  out the  environmental/social
screenings/assessments  and  the preparation  and  implementation  of environmental
management  plans  when  applicable;  and  (c)  the  procedures  to  mitigate,  prevent
and  manage  environmental  and  social  impacts  associated  with the carrying  out of
Project  activities,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the
prior agreement  of the Bank.

10. 

"Full-Time  School"  or "FTS" means a  preschool/primary  school  in the territory of
the  Borrower  and  within 
the  administrative 
jurisdiction  of  the  Project

-16-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

Implementing  Entity that operates  in seven and  a half hour shifts  on a  daily basis;
and "Full-Time  Schools"  means any Full-Time  School.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in Section  II  of this Appendix.

"GURI"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  information  and  registries
unified  management  system  (Sistema de Gerenciamiento Unificado de Registros
e Informaci6n).

"Inter-Administrative  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section
I.A. 1 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement,  as the  same may be amended  from time to
time with the agreement  of the Bank,  and such  term  includes all  schedules  to  said
Inter-Administrative  Agreement.

"Law  No.  18.437" means  Ley No.  18.437,  General  Law of Education  (Ley General
de Educaci6n) of the Borrower, dated December  12,  2008,  published in the official
gazette  (Diario Oficial) on January  16, 2009; as  such law has been  amended to the
date  of this  Agreement.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  expenditures  (other  than  consulting
services)  incurred  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity, the PCU,  the  Verification
Entity  or  any  Full-Time  School  in  connection  with  the  implementation  of  the
Project  including,  inter alia: rental  and  maintenance  of equipment,  vehicles  and
facilities, rental of office  facilities, incremental  salaries  of the Verification Entity's
travel,  which
staff,  office  utilities,  supplies  and  materials,  and  domestic 
expenditures  would not have  been  incurred absent the  Project.

"Operational  Manual"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  manual  dated
November  1, 2016  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of the
Schedule to  the Project Agreement,  as said  manual may be  amended from  time to
time with the prior  written agreement  of the Bank.

the  Project
the  Project  coordination  unit  established 
"PCU"  means 
Implementing  Entity,  pursuant  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  Resolution
No.  57  (February  2,  1994),  and  ratified  through  Resolution  No.  35  (October  27,
1998)  and  Resolution  No.  40  (December  27,  2001);  and  referred  to  in  Section
1.A.3(a)  of the  Schedule to the Project  Agreement.

in 

"Preventive  Maintenance  Expenditures"  means  expenditures  for  preventive
maintenance  of Full-Time  School's  facilities,  including  minor civil  works,  goods
and  Operating  Costs  under  Part  2.1(b)(i)  of the  Project,  which  schools  meet  the
criteria set forth in the Operational  Manual.

-17-

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the Borrower's  procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
November  1,  2016  and  provided  for  under  Section  IV  of  the  Procurement
Regulations,  as  the same  may be  updated  from time  to time in  agreement  with the
Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means  the "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for
Borrowers  under Investment  Project  Financing",  dated  July  1, 2016.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  Borrower's  national  administration  of
public  education  (Administracidn Nacional de Educacidn P  blica), a  legal  entity
established  pursuant to the  Borrower's  Law No.  15.739  of March  28,  1985.

included  in  the  Operational  Manual,  outlining  general 

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,  dated
September  2016, acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  in  the  Project  Implementing
Entity's website on October  7,  2016  and on the Bank's website on October 7,  2016,
and 
implementation
procedures,  mitigation  measures  and  monitoring  procedures  for  Resettlement
under the Project,  including the procedures  for  preparation and implementation  of
resettlement  action plans,  when  applicable,  as  said  framework  may  be  amended
from  time to  time with  the Bank's  prior written approval.

the 

reasonable 

"Training"  means 
the  Project
Implementing  Entity  or  the  PCU  for  the  carrying  out of training  activities  under
the  Project,  including,  inter alia, reasonable  costs  of travel,  subsistence,  rental  of
training  facilities, per diem for trainers  and trainees,  registration  fees  and training
materials.

incurred  by 

expenditures 

"Verification  Entity"  means  Instituto Nacional de Evaluaci6n Educativa (INEED)
or  any  other  public  or  private  entity  selected  and/or  hired  in  accordance  with
procedures  acceptable  to the Bank.

"Verification  Agreement"  means  the agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.4(a)  of
the Schedule  to the Project Agreement.

-18-

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions  are  hereby  modified  as  follows:

1. 

In  the Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers  are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate specified in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay 

the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The  Commitment Charge  shall  accrue  from a  date  sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective  dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term "Loan  Payment"  is modified to  read as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge,  interest at the Default Interest  Rate  (if any),  any
prepayment premium,  any transaction  fee for a Conversion or early termination of

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

-19-

a  Conversion,  the Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable
upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any
Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting the  word  "is"  and inserting
the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge are"  after the  word  "interest".

