OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8686-ZA

Loan Agreement

(Land  Bank Financial  Intermediation  Project)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

And

LAND  AND  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK  OF SOUTH  AFRICA

Dated 

C) 

2017

LOAN  NUMBER  8686-ZA

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

, 2017, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  and  LAND  AND
AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  BANK  OF  SOUTH  AFRICA  ("Borrower").  The
Borrower  and  the Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

I CO 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as defined  in the Appendix to  this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used  in this Agreement
have  the  meanings  ascribed  to them in  the General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees  to  lend to the Borrower,  on the  terms and conditions  set forth  or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  ninety-three  million  Dollars
($93,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this
Agreement  ("Loan"),  to assist in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to
this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds of the  Loan in  accordance  with Section
III of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Front-end  Fee
not later than  sixty  days after the  Effective Date.

2.04.  The  Commitment Charge payable  by the Borrower shall be  equal to  one quarter of

one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread
provided,  however,  that  the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less than  zero
percent  (0%)  per annum;  and provided  furthermore  that, upon a Conversion  of all
or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with the  relevant  provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance
remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty

-2-

days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as
provided  in Section  3.02 (e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.06. 

(a) 

The Payment Dates  are  April  1 and October  1 in  each year.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section  2.06,  if  the  Borrower
requests  pursuant  to the terms  of Section  2.09  below a  Conversion  of the
Loan  Currency  into  South  African  Rand  (ZAR),  upon  the  Bank's
execution  of such  Conversion,  the  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
converted  Withdrawn  Loan Balance  on each January  1, April  1, July  I and
October  1. Notices with respect  to interest  due on such converted  amounts
may  be  given  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  via  electronic  means  as
provided  in Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions;  such  notices  will be
sent to the Borrower  at such  electronic  mail  address  as the  Borrower  shall
have  designated  by  notice  to  the  Bank  for  purposes  of receiving  such
information.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule set forth  in  Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at  any time  request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal
to  an  Approved
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based  on a Fixed  Reference  Rate and
the Variable  Spread,  or vice  versa; or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable  Rate  based on a Fixed Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting  of
limits  on the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate  applicable  to all  or any
portion of the principal  amount of the Loan  withdrawn and  outstanding by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any  conversion  requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

-3-

2.09.  Without  limitation  upon the provisions  of Section  2.08  (a) of this Agreement  and
unless  otherwise  notified  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the  Conversion  Guidelines,  any  amount  withdrawn  from  the  Loan
Account  shall  be  converted  from  Dollars  to  South  African  Rand  (ZAR)  for  the
longest maturity  available  for the  Conversion of such  amount with effect  from the
Conversion  Date.  Each  such  Conversion  shall  be  effected  on  such  terms  and
conditions  as  may be  separately agreed  by the Bank  and the  Borrower.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall carry  out the Project  in accordance  with the  provisions of
Article V of the  General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project  is carried  out in accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule
2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV  - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The  Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the
Land  Bank  Legislation  (and/or  other  related  legislation)  have  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated, repealed  or  waived so  as to affect  materially  and  adversely
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations  arising under or entered
into  pursuant to this  Agreement,  or to achieve  the objective  of the Project.

4.02.  The Additional  Event of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that the
event  specified  in  Section  4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  is  continuing  for  a
period  of  60  days  after  notice  of the  event  has  been  given  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower.

ARTICLE V  - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely, that
the  Guarantee  Agreement  has  been  executed  and  delivered  and  all  conditions
precedent to its effectiveness  (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement),  have
been  fulfilled.

5.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after
the  date  of this  Agreement.

-4-

ARTICLE VI-  REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Chief Financial  Officer.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Land  and Agricultural  Development  Bank of South  Africa
Block D, Eco  Glades  2  Office Park
420  Witch-Hazel  Avenue
Eco Park
Centurion
Gauteng
Republic  of South  Africa

Facsimile:

27-86-618-0633

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

-5-

AGREED  at 

rm 

.f ,to(') 

,  as  of the

day and year  first above  written.

By

By

By

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

.

j\) 

\V

Title:  COU 

(t1,

LAND  AND  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT
BANK OF  SOUTH  AFRIC

Authorize  Representative

Name: A. 

k  S

Title: 

* 

O- 

/

acting in  concurrence  with

Authorized  Re  resentative

Name: J

Title: 

OCk\WLOIcj

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the  Project  is  to  sustainably  scale  up  the  Borrower's  financing,

specifically  to benefit emerging  farmers.

The  Project consists  of the following  component:

Part 1. Line  of Credit for Agricultural Financing

Provision of a revolving  line  of credit (Line  of Credit),  in  particular  for:

1 .

2. 

Refocusing  the Borrower's  operations  on wholesale  lending,  including,  provision
of wholesale  finance  to  Commercial  and  Emerging  Farmers,  and  leveraging  the
network  of  financial  intermediaries  (Participating  Financial  Intermediaries  or
PFIs) to  improve  the ability  of eligible  Agriculture  Enterprises,  Commercial  and
Emerging  farmers,  communal  property  associations  and  other eligible  borrowers
supported  under  the  corporate  banking  (CB),  and  commercial  development
banking  (CDB)  business lines.

Integrating  emerging  farmers  into  established  value  chains,  including:  (a)  scaling
up  direct  lending  to  eligible  Emerging  Famers  and  Agriculture  Enterprises  for
integrated  value  chain  finance;  and  (b)  identifying  high-potential  value  chain
projects  and  securing  buy-in  from  large  agricultural  corporates  or  technical
partners.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out the  Project  with  due diligence  and efficiency  and  in
conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  financial,  technical,  engineering,
environmental  and  social  standards  and  practices,  and  in  accordance  with  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  System  (ESMS),  the  Environmental  and
Social  Operations Manual  (ESOM),  and  the Project  Operations  Manual,  and  shall
provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required  for the  Project.

The  Borrower  shall  appoint  and  thereafter  maintain  at  all  times  during  the
implementation  of the  Project, the  Chief Financial  Officer  and  a  team  consisting
of  its  staff to  facilitate  overall  coordination  and  monitoring  of progress  in  the
Project implementation.

3. 

Monitoring  and Management of  Environmental and Social  Safeguards

The Borrower  shall, at all times during the  implementation  of the Project, maintain
a  team,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  consisting  of its  staff under  the  Chief Financial
Officer  with  responsibility  for the  monitoring  and management  of environmental
and  social  safeguards  aspects  of  the  Project,  including,  without  limitation,
consultation,  dissemination  of information,  reporting  and communication.

Sub-loan  Agreements

For purposes of carrying  out Part  1.1  of the Project,  the Borrower  shall  enter  into
agreements with  each Participating  Financial  Intermediary  (PFI) under  terms and
conditions  which  shall have  been approved  by  the Bank  including,  inter alia, the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth 
in  Section  I.C  of  this  Schedule  (Sub-loan
Agreement).

For  purposes of carrying  out Part  1.2  of the  Project,  the Borrower  shall  enter  into
agreements  with each Emerging  Farmer  or Agriculture  Enterprise under terms  and
conditions  which  shall have  been approved  by the  Bank  including,  inter alia, the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Section  I.C  of  this  Schedule  (Sub-loan
Agreement).

-8-

3. 

4. 

The Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights and carry out  its obligations  under each  Sub-
loan Agreement  in such  manner as to protect the interests  of the  Borrower  and the
Bank and  to  accomplish the purposes  of the Loan.

Except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, the  Borrower  shall  not assign,  amend,
abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Sub-loan  Agreement  or  any  of
provision thereof.

C. 

Terms  and Conditions  of each  Sub-loan  Agreement

The  Borrower  shall,  amend  or  include  an  addendum  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  under  the  Model  Form  of the  Land  Bank  Revolving
Facility  Agreement  with  the  terms  of the  Sub-loan  Agreement.  Such  Sub-loan
Agreement  shall contain, inter alia, the  following provisions:

1 .

The obligations  of the  Borrower:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

to promptly  disburse  a Sub-Loan  from the proceeds  of the  Loan to:  (i) the
pertinent  PFI  for the  purposes  of providing  Sub-financing  to  an  eligible
Commercial  or Emerging  Farmer, or (ii)  Emerging  Farmer,  or Agriculture
Enterprise,  for the  purpose  of financing  the  carrying  out  of the  pertinent
Subprojects  with due  diligence  and  efficiency;

to  make  available  to the  pertinent  PFI,  Emerging  Farmer  or  Agriculture
Enterprise  a Sub-loan:  (a) denominated  and repayable  in ZAR; (b)  charged
interest  on the principal  amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to
time  at  an  interest  rate  that  takes  into  account  the  Borrower's  cost  of
funding,  operating  costs  and  credit risk  margin;  and  (c)  repayable  over  a
period  not  exceeding  twenty  (20)  years  from  the  date  of the  Sub-loan
Agreement,  inclusive  of a grace  period not  exceeding  three  (3)  years,  all
under terms  and conditions  acceptable  to the Bank;

to ensure that  each  proposal  by a PFI  for Sub-financing,  or each  proposal
by an  Emerging  Farmer  or Agriculture  Enterprise  for  direct  financing,  as
the  case  may  be,  is  evaluated  and  approved,  in  accordance  with  the
qualification  criteria set forth  in the Project Operations  Manual;

to  take  or permit  to be taken all actions to  enable each  PFI to comply with
its  obligations  referred  to  in  Sections  I.C.3,  I.C.4  and  I.C.5  of  this
Schedule;

to ensure  that the  Project is  carried  out  in  accordance  with the provisions
of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  and  the  pertinent  provisions  of this
Agreement;

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

-9-

to ensure that the Sub-loan Agreement includes the Audit Right provisions
in  conformity  with the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;

to  ensure  compliance  with  the  environmental  and  social  safeguards  due
diligence  set  forth  in  the  ESOM  and the  Project  Operations  Manual,  and
referred to in  Section I.F of this  Schedule  2;

to provide in  each  Sub-loan Agreement  a requirement  for the  eligible  PFI
to  comply  with  the  eligibility  criteria set  forth  in  the Project  Operations
Manual;  and

not to  assign, amend,  terminate, abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or fail to enforce
the  Sub-loan  Agreement  or  any  provision  of the  Sub-loan  Agreement,
unless  previously  agreed  by the  Bank.

2. 

The Borrower  shall  obtain rights adequate  to protect  its  interests  and those  of the
Bank,  including the right to:

suspend  or terminate  the  right  of the  pertinent  PFI,  or Emerging  Fanner,
or  Agriculture  Enterprise  to use  the proceeds  of the  Sub-loan,  or  obtain a
refund  of all or  any  part  of the  amount  of the  Sub-loan  then  withdrawn,
upon the  pertinent PFI's, or Emerging Farmer's, Agricultural  Enterprise's
failure  to  perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the  Sub-loan  Agreement;
and

take  remedial  actions  against  any  PFI,  or  any  Emerging  Farmer,  or  any
Agriculture  Enterprise  in case that the  pertinent PFI, or Emerging Farmer,
or  Agriculture  Enterprise  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its
obligations  under the Sub-loan  Agreement (which actions  shall previously
be  agreed  with the  Bank), and the provisions  of this Agreement.

3. 

Each Sub-loan  Agreement  with a PFI shall contain  the following obligations  of the
pertinent PFI:

to  share  the  credit  risk  with  the  Borrower  on  all  Sub-financing  to
Commercial  and  Emerging  Farmers,  including:  (i)  the  obligation  to
assume  full  credit  risk  for  any  Sub-financing  under  CB  &  CDB;  and
(ii) the  obligation to  assume  under REM sub-line:  50%  of the  loss  for the
first  5 percent  of any non-performing  Sub-financing,  70% of the loss  for
5 to  10  percent  of any  non-performing  Sub-financing,  and  100%  of the
loss  for  above  10  percent  of any  non-performing  Sub-financing,  all  in
accordance  with the  guidelines  established  by the  Borrower  from time  to
time;

-10-

For the purpose  of this provision  the  term, "non-performing  Sub-
financing"  means a sub-loan that  is not repaid, and which the pertinent PFI
has removed  from  its balance  sheet.

to comply with the environmental  and  social  safeguards  due diligence  set
forth  in  the ESOM  and  the Project  Operations  Manual,  and referred  to in
Section  I.F of this  Schedule  2;

to  incorporate  in  all  Sub-financing  Agreements  the  obligation  of  the
respective  borrowers (Commercial and Emerging Farmers)  to comply with
environmental  and  social  safeguards  due  diligence  set forth  in the ESOM
and the  Project Operations  Manual;

to  service  the  repayment  of the  Sub-loan  in  accordance  with  an  agreed
repayment  and  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank,  and
which  terms  shall  specifically  be  set  forth  in  the  pertinent  Sub-loan
Agreement;

to ensure that the pertinent  Subproject is carried  out the in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of this  Agreement,  the  Sub-loan  Agreement,  the  ESOM,
and the  Project Operations  Manual;

to  comply  with  the  following  obligations:  (i)  to  maintain  a  financial
management  system and  prepare  financial  statements  in accordance  with
consistently  applied  accounting  standards acceptable  to the  Bank, both  in
a  manner  adequate  to  reflect the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures
related to the Project; and (ii)  at the Borrower's  and/or the Bank's  request,
have  such financial  statements audited  by independent  auditors  acceptable
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish  the  statements  so
audited  to the  Borrower;

to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  in
connection  with the Project;

not to assign, amend,  terminate, abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or  fail to  enforce
the  Sub-loan  Agreement  or  any  provision  of the  Sub-loan  Agreement,
unless previously  agreed by  the Borrower  and the  Bank;  and

to take  or permit to be taken  all  actions to enable  the Borrower  to  comply
with the obligations  referred  to  in this  Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

4. 

With respect to  each  Sub-financing,  the  Borrower  shall  pursuant to  the  pertinent
Sub-financing Agreement  require  each PFI to  ensure the  following:

-11-

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

each Subproject  Proposal  is prepared,  based on the identified  priorities set
forth in  the Project  Operations  Manual;

each  Subproject  Proposal  is evaluated  and  approved,  in accordance  with
the  established  criteria set forth  in the  Project  Operations Manual;  and

each  PFI  shall  make  the  Sub-financing  under  a  lending  agreement  (Sub-
financing  Agreement)  with  the  respective  Commercial  and  Emerging
Farmer on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include
the  following:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

The  Sub-financing  shall  be:  (A)  denominated  and  repayable  in
ZAR, (B)  charged interest  on the principal amount  withdrawn and
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  the  rate,  agreed  with  the
Borrower,  and  (C)  repayable  over  a  period  agreed  with  the
Borrower, in  accordance  with an agreed  repayment  schedule.

The  pertinent  PFI  shall  obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  its
interests  and  those  of the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  including  the
right  to  suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of the  Commercial  and
Emerging  Farmer  to  use  the  proceeds  of the  Sub-financing,  or
obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any  part  of  the  amount  of  the  Sub-
financing  then  withdrawn,  upon  the  Commercial  and  Emerging
Farmer's  failure  to perform  any  of its  obligations  under  the  Sub-
financing  Agreement.

The  pertinent  PFI  shall  require  the  Commercial  and  Emerging
Farmer  to  carry  out  the  pertinent  Subproject  in  a  manner
acceptable to the Bank,  and operate  and maintain  said Subproject,
with  due  diligence  and  efficiency,  and 
in  conformity  with
appropriate 
economic,
administrative, 
environmental  and  social standards  and practices.

technical, 

financial, 

The  pertinent  PFI  shall  require  the  Commercial  and  Emerging
Farmer  to  take  or  permit  to  be  taken  all  actions  to  enable  the
Borrower  and  the PFI to comply  with their  respective obligations
referred  to  in this  Agreement,  and/or  in the  Sub-loan  Agreement.

The pertinent  PFI  shall  obtain  the  right  to take  remedial  actions
against  the  respective  Commercial  and  Emerging  Farmer  in  case
it shall have  failed  to comply  with any of its obligations  under the
Sub-financing  Agreement  (which  actions  shall  previously  be
agreed with the Bank).

5. 

D. 

1 .

2. 

F. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

-12-

The Borrower  shall require each PFI to exercise  its rights under each  Sub-financing
Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the  interests  of the  Borrower,  the  Bank
and  the PFI  and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan. Except  as the  Borrower
and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  pertinent  PFI  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or waive  any Sub-financing  Agreement  or any of its provisions.

Project  Operations  Manual

The Borrower  shall  carry  out the Project,  and  cause  the Project  to  be carried  out,
in accordance  with the provisions of a manual  satisfactory to the Bank (the Project
Operations  Manual).  Said  manual  shall  include,  inter  alia:  (i)  the  ESOM;
(ii)  institutional  arrangements  for the  management  of the  Project;  (iii)  internal
control  systems,  financial  management  and  accounting  procedures  annexes;
(iv)  detailed  arrangements  for the  overall  carrying  out  of the  Project  (including,
inter alia, procurement  as  well  as  environmental  and  social  risks  management
mechanisms  and  procedures)  to be  followed during  Project implementation;  (v)  a
detailed  communication  plan  as well  as social  accountability  tools proposed to be
utilized  for  Project  purposes;  and  (vi)  the  guidelines  and  indicators  for  Project
monitoring  and evaluation.

Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree  to  in  writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not
abrogate,  amend,  repeal,  suspend,  waive  or  otherwise  fail to  enforce  the  Project
Operations  Manual  or  any provision  thereof, without the  prior  written  agreement
of  the  Bank;  provided,  however,  that  in  case  of  any  conflict  between  the
arrangements  and  procedures  set  out  in  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  the
provisions  of this Agreement,  the  provisions  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Performance  Standards  for Private  Sector Activities

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out the Project,  and  cause  the Project  to be  carried  out,
in  accordance  with the  ESMS,  and  the ESOM,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory
to  the Bank.

Except  as  the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or  waive  either  the  ESMS,  or  the  ESOM  or  any  of their  respective
provisions.

Without  limitation  upon  its other  reporting  obligations  under this Agreement,  the
Borrower  shall  collect,  compile  and  submit to  the  Bank,  each  calendar year  (or at
such  other frequency  as may be agreed  with the  Bank), consolidated reports  on the

E. 

Anti-Corruption

-13-

status  of  compliance  with  the  ESMS  and  the  ESOM,  and  the  status  of  the
implementation  of said ESMS  ("Environmental  and Social  Performance  Report"),
giving details  of:  (a) measures  taken  by the  respective  PFIs  and  Commercial  and
Agricultural  Farmers  in  furtherance  of the  ESMS  and  the  ESOM,  including,
development  and  operation  of 
their  respective  environment  and  social
management systems; (b)  conditions,  if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere
with the  smooth  implementation  of the  said measures;  and (c)  remedial  measures
taken or required  to be taken to  address such  conditions.

Section  II. 

Proiect Monitoring Reporting  and Evaluation

Project  Reports

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

The Borrower  shall monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
Conditions  and  on the basis  of the  indicators  acceptable to the  Bank. Each  Project
Report  shall  cover the period  of six (6)  calendar  months, and  shall be  furnished to
the Bank  not later than forty-five  (45)  days after  the end  of the  period covered by
such report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
Conditions.

The  Borrower  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to the  Bank  not later  than forty-five  (45)
days  after  the  end  of each  six  (6)  calendar  months,  interim  unaudited  financial
reports  for  the Project  covering the  quarter, in  form and  substance  satisfactory  to
the Bank.

The Borrower  shall  have its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09(b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  Fiscal  Year  of the Borrower.
The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to the
Bank  not  later than  six (6)  months  after the  end of such period.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article II of the General  Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for Projects",  dated  May 2006,  as revised

-14-

from time to time by the  Bank and  as made  applicable to this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible  Expenditures  as  set  forth  in  the  table  in
paragraph  2  below.

2. 

The following table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to each  Category,  and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in  each Category.

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures  to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

Category 

Project 

(1)  Line of Credit under the 

93,000,000 

100%  of  the  amount
under  Sub-
disbursed 
loans  and Sub-Financing

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

93,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1 .

(a) 

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made:

from the  Loan  Account until  the Bank  has received payment  in full  of the
Front-end  Fee; or

prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  eighteen  million  six  hundred  thousand
($18,600,000)  may  be  made  for payments  made  prior  to this  date  but on
or after  April  1, 2016,  for Eligible Expenditures  under Category  (1).

2. 

The Closing  Date is April  1, 2022.

-15-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

Subject to the provisions  of paragraph  2 of this  Schedule, the Borrower  shall repay
1. 
each  Disbursed Amount  in  semi-annual  installments  payable  on each  April  1 and  October
1, the first installment  to be payable  on the 9'  Payment Date following  the Maturity  Fixing
Date  for the Disbursed  Amount  and the last  installment to  be payable  on the  50'  Payment
Date  following  the  Maturity  Fixing  Date  for the Disbursed  Amount.  The  following  table
sets  forth  the  percentage  of the  Disbursed  Amount  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment
Date.

Principal Payment Date
(each  April and  October  1" on the  9'  Interest
Payment Date  following  the Maturity Fixing 
Date  for the Disbursed Amount) 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

9'  Payment  Date 

10t  Payment  Date 

11"  Payment  Date 

12th Payment  Date 

13ff  Payment  Date 

14d'  Payment Date 

15'  Payment Date 

16"  Payment Date 

17'  Payment Date 

18'  Payment Date 

19"'  Payment Date 

20"'  Payment Date 

21S"  Payment Date 

2 2 nd  Payment Date 

2 3rd Payment  Date 

24"  Payment  Date 

25"  Payment  Date 

26"  Payment  Date 

1.73

1.76

1.78

1.81

1.84

1.86

1.89

1.92

1.95

1.98

2.01

2.04

2.07

2.1

2.13

2.16

2.20

2.23

-16-

Principal Payment Date
(each  April and October  1V  on the  9 h Interest
Payment Date following  the Maturity Fixing 
Date  for the Disbursed Amount) 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

27" Payment  Date 

281 Payment  Date 

291 Payment Date 

30'  Payment Date 

31St  Payment Date 

3 2nd  Payment Date 

3 3rd Payment  Date 

341 Payment  Date 

351  Payment  Date 

3 61  Payment  Date 

371 Payment  Date 

38'  Payment  Date 

39'  Payment  Date 

401 Payment  Date 

41s" Payment  Date 

4 2nd Payment  Date 

4 3rd Payment Date 

441 Payment Date 

45'  Payment Date 

461 Payment  Date 

471 Payment  Date 

481 Payment  Date 

491  Payment  Date 

50"  Payment  Date 

2.26

2.30

2.33

2.37

2.40

2.44

2.47

2.51

2.55

2.59

2.63

2.66

2.70

2.75

2.79

2.83

2.87

2.91

2.96

3.00

3.05

3.09

3.14

2.94

100

-17-

2. 
If any  one  or  more  installments  of  principal  of  the  Disbursed  Amount  would,
pursuant to the  provisions of paragraph  1 of this Schedule,  be payable after  [April  1, 2047],
the Borrower  shall  also pay  on such date  the aggregate  amount  of all such installments.

The  Bank  shall  notify  the  Loan  Parties  of the  amortization  schedule  for  each

3. 
Disbursed Amount  promptly after the  Maturity  Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.

4. 
Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  I through  3  of this  Schedule,  in  the
event  of  a  Currency  Conversion  of  all  or  any  portion  of  a  Disbursed  Amount  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the amount  so  converted  in  the Approved  Currency that is  repayable
on  any  Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the  Conversion  Period,  shall  be
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of denomination
immediately  prior  to  the  Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the
amounts  of principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by the  Bank  under the  Currency
Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the  Bank  so  determines 
in
accordance  with the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate  component  of the  Screen
Rate.

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more than one  Loan  Currency,
5. 
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to the  amount  denominated  in  each
Loan  Currency.

-18-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
Combating  Fraud and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated  October  15,  2006  and  revised  in  January  2011  and  as
of July  1, 2016.

"Audit  Right" means  the provisions referred to  in Section I.C.1(f)  of Schedule 2  to
this Agreement.

"Agriculture  Enterprise"  means  an agricultural  business that  is  eligible to receive
a Sub-financing  to finance  a  Subproject.

"CB"  and  "CDB"  mean  the  pertinent  corporate  banking,  and  commercial
development  banking lines  of the  Borrower's lending  business,  respectively.

"Commercial  Farmer"  means  an agricultural  corporate  that  is eligible to receive  a
Sub-financing to finance  a Subproject.

"Category"  means  a category  set forth  in  the table  in Section  III of Schedule  2 to
this  Agreement.

"Emerging  Farmer"  means  a  historically  disadvantaged  farmer  that  is eligible  to
receive a Sub-financing  to finance  a Subproject.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  System"  or  "ESMS"  means  the
Borrower's environmental  and social  management  systems acceptable to  the Bank,
titled  "Land  Bank  Environmental  and  Social
described 
Management  System"  dated  February  23,  2015,  and  approved  by  the  Borrower's
board on May  26,  2015,  as the  same  may be  amended  from time  to time  with the
agreement  of the  Bank.

in  the  document 

"Environmental  and  Social  Operations  Manual"  means  the  Borrower's  manual
dated December  13,  2016,  said manual,  satisfactory  to the Bank,  and  setting  forth
environmental  and  social  guidelines  to be  followed  in  the  implementation  of the
Project  in monitoring social and environmental  standards under Subprojects, as the
same  may be amended  from  time to time with the  agreement of the  Bank.

"Environmental  and  Social  Performance  Report"  means  Borrower's  report
referred to in  Section I.F.3  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Fiscal  Year" means  the  Borrower's  fiscal  year  commencing  April  1 and  ending
March  31  of the following  year.

-19-

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth in  Section II  of this Appendix.

"Guarantor"  means  the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  pursuant  to  the  Guarantee
Agreement.

"Guarantee  Agreement"  means  the  guarantee  agreement  of even  date  herewith,
between  the  Bank  and  the  Guarantor,  in  respect  of the  Loan,  as  such  guarantee
agreement  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all
appendices,  schedules  and agreements  supplemental  to the  Guarantee  Agreement.

"Land  and  Agricultural  Development  Bank  of  South  Africa"  or  "Land  Bank"
means  the agricultural  development bank established  and  operating pursuant to the
Land  and  Agricultural  Development  Bank  Act,  15  of 2002  of the  laws  of the
Guarantor.

"Land  Bank  Legislation"  means  the  Land  and  Agricultural  Development  Bank
Act,  15  of  2002  of  the  laws  of  the  Guarantor,  and  such  term  includes  any
regulations  under said  legislation.

"Line of Credit" means  a revolving facility  managed and operated  by the Borrower
to provide  financing  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan to respective  PFIs, Emerging
Farmers and  Agriculture  Enterprises  for  financing  Subprojects.

"Participating  Financial  Intermediary"  or  "PFI"  means  an  approved  financial
institution, cooperative  or other  banking  society, which is registered as  a financial
institution,  cooperative  or  society  pursuant  to  the  laws  of the  Guarantor,  and
approved  to  participate  through  the  Line  of Credit  as  a  financier  of Commercial
and Emerging  Farmers initiated  Subprojects.

"Model  Form  of the  Land  Bank  revolving Facility Agreement"  means  a  standard
form  agreement  adopted  by  the  Borrower  as  a  basis  for  a  lending  agreement
between  the  Borrower  and  a PFI  or  other  borrower  in  connection  with  a Line  of
Credit.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and
referred  to in  Section  I.D.1  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement,  as the  same may  be
amended  from time to time with agreement  of the Bank.

"REM"  means  retail  emerging  markets  product  of  the  Borrower's  lending
business.

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

1. 

2. 

-20-

"South  African  Rand"  or  "ZAR"  means  the  Rand,  the  lawful  currency  of the
Guarantor.

"Sub-financing"  means  a  sub-financing  to be  made  by  a PFI to  a Commercial  and
Emerging  Farmer  pursuant to a Sub-financing  Agreement.

"Sub-financing  Agreement"  means  any  agreement to  be  executed  between  a  PFI
and  a Commercial  and  Emerging Farmer pursuant  to which such  Commercial  and
Emerging  Farmer  shall  obtain  a  sub-financing  to  carry  out  a  Subproject,  as  such
sub-financing  agreement  may  be amended  from time  to time,  with the  agreement
of the  Bank  and  the  Borrower,  and  such  term  includes  all  appendices,  schedules
and  agreements  supplemental  to the  Sub-financing  Agreement.

"Sub-loan  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  to  be executed  between  the
Borrower  and  a  PFI,  or  an  Emerging  Farmer,  or  an  Agriculture  Enterprise,
pursuant to which such PFI shall obtain a revolving line of credit, or such Emerging
Farmer or  such  Agriculture  Enterprise  shall  obtain  direct  financing,  in  each  case
to finance  a Subproject, as such  sub-loan agreement  may be amended  from time to
time,  with  the  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all  appendices,
schedules  and agreements  supplemental  to the Sub-loan  Agreement.

"Sub-loan"  means  a sub-loan to be made  by the Borrower  to  a PFI  pursuant to  the
Sub-loan  Agreement.

"Subproject"  means  any  agricultural  investment  initiated  by  a  Commercial  and
Emerging  Farmer  and  financed  through  a  PFI pursuant  to  the  financing  available
to such PFI  under the Project.

"Subproject  Proposal"  a proposal  made by  Commercial  and Emerging  Farmer to a
PFI  for a  Sub-financing.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to  the General Conditions

The General  Conditions are  hereby modified  as  follows:

In the  Table  of  Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are  modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs  below.

Section 3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay the  Bank  a front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the rate specified  in  the Loan  Agreement  (the  "Front-end  Fee").

-21-

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue from  a date  sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement  to the respective  dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2 above.

The Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section 3.01(b)."

5. 

Renumbered  paragraph  21 
("Conversion  Date")  is modified  to  read  as follows:

(originally  paragraph  20)  of  the  Appendix

"Conversion  Date"  means,  for a  Conversion,  the  Execution  Date  or such
"21. 
other date  as the Bank shall  determine  on which the  Conversion enters into  effect,
as  further  specified  in  the  Conversion  Guidelines;  provided  that  if  the  Loan
Agreement  provides  for automatic  Conversions  into the Approved  Currency  upon
withdrawal  of amounts  of the  Loan,  the  Conversion  Date  shall  be  the  date  of
withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of  the  amount  in  respect  of  which  the
Conversion has  been requested."

In the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of  "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to  read as  follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
"68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the  Commitment Charge,  interest  at the Default Interest Rate  (if any),  any
prepayment  premium, any transaction fee  for a Conversion or early termination of
a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable
upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any
Unwinding  Amount payable  by  the Borrower."

3. 

4. 

6. 

7. 

-22-

8. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting the  word  "is"  and  inserting
the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge are"  after the  word  "interest".

