OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8754-IN

Loan Agreement

(Assam  Citizen-Centric Service  Delivery  Project)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

,2017

LOAN  NUMBER  8754-IN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated 

, 2017,  between INDIA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The Borrower and  the  Bank hereby agree  as  follows:

J&UN 

S 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as defined  in the  Appendix  to this Agreement)  constitute
an integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to  them in the  General Conditions  or in  the  Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II-  LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to lend  to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set forth or
referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  thirty-nine  million  two  hundred
thousand  Dollars  ($39,200,000),  as such  amount  may be  converted  from time  to
time  through a  Currency Conversion  in accordance  with  the provisions of Section
2.08  of this  Agreement  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  I to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in accordance  with  Section

IV  of Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable by  the  Borrower  shall  be equal  to one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge payable  by  the Borrower shall be equal  to one quarter  of

one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  however,  that  the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero
percent  (0%)  per annum;  and  provided  furthermore  that, upon  a Conversion of all
or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  during  the Conversion  Period  on such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with the  relevant provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance

remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a  period  of thirty
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as
provided  in  Section 3.02  (e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment Dates  are  February  15  and August  15  in each  year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the

amortization  schedule set forth in  Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may at  any  time  request  any of the  following  Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate prudent  debt  management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any portion  of the principal
amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn,  to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice versa;  or (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable Rate  based  on a Fixed Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C) all  of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from a Variable  Rate based on a Variable
Spread to a Variable  Rate based on a Fixed  Spread; and  (iii)  the setting of
limits on  the Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate applicable  to  all or any
portion of the principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and  outstanding by
the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any  conversion requested pursuant  to paragraph  (a) of this  Section that is
accepted  by  the Bank  shall  be  considered a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the General  Conditions  and of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following  the Execution  Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from the  Loan  Account and pay  to itself the amounts
required  to pay any premium payable  in  accordance  with  Section 4.05  (c)
of the General  Conditions up to the amount allocated  from time to time for
the  purpose in the table in Section  IV  of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

2.09. 

(a) 

If on any  given  day,  the Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii) and  (b)(iii)  of
this Section), the Borrower  shall pay to the Bank a  surcharge  at the rate  of

-3-

one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure  Amount (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)  of this  Section) for
each  said  day ("Exposure  Surcharge"). The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall  be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears on each Payment Date.

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have the  meanings  set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess Exposure  Amount"  means  for each day  during
which  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total  amount  of said  excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio  of all  (or,  if the  Bank  so  determines,  a portion)  of the Loan
to the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or the equivalent  portions) of the
loans  made  by the  Bank to  the  Borrower  and  to  other borrowers
guaranteed  by  the Borrower  that  are  also,subject  to  an  exposure
surcharge,  as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined  from
time  to time  by the Bank.

limit  on  the
"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard 
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if  exceeded,
would  subject  the Loan  to the  Exposure  Surcharge,  as determined
from  time to time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure  to  the Borrower,  as reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  State  of Assam  ("Assam"  or  "Project
Implementing Entity")  carries out the Project in  accordance  with the provisions  of
Article V of the General  Conditions  and the Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the Project is  carried  out in accordance  with the provisions of Schedule
2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF  THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following:  Assam's
Legislation has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as to

-4-

affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability  of  Assam  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations under the Project  Agreement

4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists  of the following:  the event specified
in  Section  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is continuing  for a period  of sixty
(60) days after notice of the event  has been given by the  Bank  to the  Borrower.

ARTICLE V - TERMINATION

5.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is any  of the following  officials,  acting  severally:
Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary,  or
Under  Secretary  of  the  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  of  the  Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Department of Economic  Affaires
Ministry  of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi  100  001
India

Facsimile:

91-11-23092039

6.03.  The  Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C. 20433
United  States of America

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

8 

/  , India,  as  of the  day and  year first above  written.

-5-

INDIA

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:  X

Title: .16Wr

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Auth  '*  ed Representative

Name:  H/3fIAt.  P
Title:  AC.YJ  oirf~ 

~~(

-6-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project is to improve  access in  the delivery  of selected public

services  in Assam

The Project consists  of the  following parts:

Part 1.  Technical  Assistance

1.1. 

1.2. 

1.3. 

1.4. 

Strengthening  RTPS  implementation  through:  (i)  the  development  of  an  ICT
platform  for automated  tracking  of individual  service  requests  and appeals  under
RTPS; (ii) the development of an RTPS management  information; (iii)  the creation
of  an  online  portal  to  offer  information  on  the  procedures  and  processes  for
accessing  services  and  to  allow  citizens  to  apply  for certain  services  online;  (iv)
the development  and implementation  of a training  and  capacity  building program
to  support staff adaptation to electronic  processing  and  develop  a citizen-centered
approach  to  service  provision;  (v)  the  implementation  of a  change  management
strategy;  and  (vi)  the  creation  of  a  high-level  delivery  unit  to  drive  RTPS
implementation  across  Assam.

Supporting  the  process  of re-engineering  in  targeted  services  through:  (i)  the
initiation  of electronic approaches  to  government-to-citizen  service  delivery with
selected  RTPS  Services  in  targeted  entities;  (ii)  the  carrying  out  of a process  of
simplification reforms,  including  a structure  for  the  delegation  of responsibilities
and the  reduction  in the  number of supporting documents required  to access  RTPS
Services;  (iii)  the  improvement  of  the  field  verification  system  for delivery  of
selected  RTPS  Services  and  streamlining  the  issuance  of  digitally  signed
certificates;  (iv)  the  establishment  of a  quality  management  system;  and  (v)  the
creation  of an integrated  electronic  repository of government-issued  certificates.

(i)  Establishment  of Public  Facilitation  Centers,  including  through  the  hiring  of
contracted  staff and  the  provision  of equipment,  stand-by  generators  and  critical
ICT infrastructure  and reliable broadband connectivity;  (ii)  conducting research  on
alternative methods  to deliver RTPS  Services in remote areas;  and (iii)  developing
a public private  partnership  and licensing framework.

Promoting  citizen  engagement through:  (i)  the  provision  of access to information
relating to  RTPS Service delivery,  including  through a  state-wide  information and
education  campaign  and  the establishment  of a call  center  to provide  assistance to
citizens  in  accessing  RTPS  Services;  and  (ii)  the  development  of an  effective
beneficiary  feedback mechanism  in  RTPS  Service  delivery  systems.

-7-

Part 2.  Result-based  Financing

Incentivizing  citizens'  access to RTPS  Services.

2.1. 

2.2. 

2.3. 

2.4. 

Fully operationalizing  Public  Facilitation  Centers  established  under  Part  1.3(i)  of
the Project.

Expanding  access  to RTPS  Services  in  the  tribal  areas of Assam.

Incentivizing  the expansion of the  number of notified RTPS  Services.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  1. 

Implementation  Arranements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

C. 

1. 

To facilitate the carrying out of the Project,  the  Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the  Loan  available  to  Assam  in  accordance  with  the  Borrower's  standard
arrangements  for developmental  assistance  to  the States of India.

The  Borrower  shall  protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to
accomplish the purposes  of the  Loan.

B. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Safeguards

The Borrower  shall, and shall cause  Assam to:

(a) 

(b) 

carry  out  the Project  in accordance  with the  Environmental  Management
Plan  and  the  Tribal  Development  Plan,  and  pursuant  to  the  objectives,
policies, procedures and other provisions  set forth therein, in a manner and
substance  satisfactory to the Bank;  and

refrain  from  taking  any  action,  or  consenting  to  an  action  to  be  taken,
which  would  prevent  or  interfere  with  the  implementation  of  the
Environmental  Management  Plan  and/or  the  Tribal  Development  Plan,
including  any  amendment,  suspension,  waiver,  and/or  voidance  of any
provision  thereof, whether  in  whole  or  in part,  without  the  prior written
concurrence  of the Bank.

2. 

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  the  Environmental
Management  Plan  or  the  Tribal  Development  Plan,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the
provisions of this Agreement,  on the other hand, the provisions  of this Agreement
shall prevail.

-9-

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reportin2 and Evaluation

A. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Project Reports
The Borrower  shall,  and shall cause  Assam to, monitor and  evaluate  the progress
of the Project and shall cause Assam  to prepare Project Reports in accordance with
the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General  Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of
indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover  the period  of
one (1) calendar  semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not  later than one (1)
month after the end  of the  period covered  by such report.

Financial  Management, Financial Reports and Audits
The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  and  shall  cause  Assam  to  maintain,  a  financial
management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of  the
General  Conditions.
Without  limitation on the provisions  of Part  A of this  Section, the  Borrower  shall,
and shall cause  Assam to, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
(45)  days  after the end of each fiscal  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports
for the Project  covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
The  Borrower shall have  its Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of  the
Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the  Borrower,
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal  was made under the
Preparation  Advance  for the  Project.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each
such period  shall be furnished  to the Bank not later  than nine  (9) months  after the
end of such period.

Section  III. 

Procurement

A. 

1. 

2. 

General
Goods  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods  and  non-consulting  services
required  for the Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the Loan  shall be
procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set forth or referred  to  in  Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines,  and  with the provisions  of this  Section.
Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the Project  and  to
be financed out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  shall be procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines, and with the provisions  of this Section.

- 10  -

3. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

C. 

1 .

2. 

Definitions.  The capitalized  terms used below in this Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts,
refer  to  the  corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement Guidelines,  or Sections 11, 111,  IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines,
as  the case may  be.

Particular  Methods  of Procurement  of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services

International  Competitive  Bidding.  Except  as otherwise  provided  in paragraph
2  below,  goods  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded  on  the basis of International  Competitive Bidding.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Goods  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other than International  Competitive Bidding, may be used for
procurement  of goods and non-consulting services  for those contracts  specified in
the  Procurement Plan:  (a) National  Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional
provisions  agreed  from  time  to  time  in  the Procurement  Plan;  (b)  Shopping;  and
(c)  Direct Contracting.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except as otherwise  provided  in paragraph  2
below, consultants'  services shall be procured under contracts  awarded  on the basis
of Quality and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Consultants'  Services.  The  following
methods,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of consultants'  services  for those contracts  which  are  specified in the
(a)  Quality-based  Selection;  (b)  Selection  under  a  Fixed
Procurement  Plan: 
(d)  Selection  based  on  Consultants'
Budget; 
Qualifications;  (e)  Single-source  Selection  of consulting  firms;  (f)  Procedures  set
forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the Consultant  Guidelines  for the  Selection of
Individual  Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the  Selection  of
Individual Consultants.

(c)  Least  Cost  Selection; 

D. 

Review  by the Bank  of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan shall  set forth those  contracts  which  shall be subject  to the
Bank's Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank. For avoidance of doubts,  the Bank shall be entitled  to conduct, at any time,
independent procurement  reviews  of all  the  contracts financed  under the  Loan.

-ll-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article II of the General  Conditions, this  Section, and such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to the  Borrower  (including  the
"Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Investment  Project  Financing"  dated  February
2017,  as  revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  Bank  and  as  made  applicable  to  this
Agreement pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to finance  Eligible Expenditures  as set
forth in  the table in paragraph 2 below.

The  following table specifies  the categories  of Eligible Expenditures  that may  be
financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each Category, and  the percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for Eligible  Expenditures  in each  Category.

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be  Financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

31,202,000 

80%

Category 

(1)  Goods, non-consulting 
services, consultants'
services,  Incremental
Operating  Costs and Training
under Part  I  of the Project

(2)  Eligible  Expenditure 
Program under Part 2 of the
Project

(3)  Refund of Preparation 
Advance 

(4) Front-end Fee 

7,500,000 

80%

400,000 

98,000 

Amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.07  (a) of the
General  Conditions

Amount payable pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with Section 2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions

- 12  -

(5) Interest Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate Collar premium 

0 

Amount  due pursuant  to
Section 2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

39,200,000

B. 

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up to an aggregate  amount not  to  exceed  $7,840,000  may be
made  for payments made prior to this date but on or after January  1, 2017,
for Eligible Expenditures;  or

(b) 

under Category  (2) unless  and until the Borrower  shall have:

(i) 

(ii) 

complied  with  the  additional  instructions  referred  to  in  Section
IV.A- 1 of this  Schedule,  including  submission to the Bank  of the
applicable  financial  reports  evidencing  the  incurrence  of EEP
expenditures during the respective DLI  Period(s) up to the date for
which payment  is  requested;  and

furnished  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with
the  DLI  Verification  Protocol,  that  the  DLI  Targets  for  the
respective  DLI  Period(s)  for  which  payment  is  requested  have
been  achieved.

2. 

Without limitation  on  the foregoing,  for withdrawals  under Category  (2):

(a) 

(b) 

the  Bank may authorize partial withdrawal  for EEP expenditures  when the
Borrower  shall  have  furnished  evidence  in  accordance  with  the  DLI
Verification  Protocol,  that  some  but  not  all  of the  DLI  Targets  for  the
respective  DLI Period have been  achieved or partially  achieved;

in  the  event  that  the  DLI  Value  allocated  to  a  DLI  Target  is  not  fully
disbursed  at the end of the  respective  DLI Period because the  Bank is not
satisfied that the DLI  Target has been fully achieved,  the Bank may, at any
time  by written  notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion, to  roll
over  the  undisbursed  amount  to  a subsequent  DLI  Period  in  accordance
with  the  DLI  Verification  Protocol,  and  the  Bank  may  authorize  the

- 13  -

(c) 

(d) 

withdrawal  of such amount when the Bank shall be satisfied  that such DL1
Target  from the  earlier DLI Period  has been fully achieved;

in  the  event  that  the  EEP  expenditures  incurred  during  a  particular  DLI
Period  exceed  the  DLI  Value  for such  DLI  period,  the  Bank may,  in  its
sole discretion,  by written  notice  to the Borrower, allow the  Borrower to
carry the excess  EEP expenditures  over to the subsequent  DLI Period;

with respect to the DLI Period current  at the time of any withdrawal,  in the
event  that  the DLI  Targets  for a subsequent  DLI  Period  are  partially  or
fully  achieved  in  such  current  DLI  Period,  the  Bank  may,  in  its  sole
discretion, by written  notice to the  Borrower, authorize  the  withdrawal for
the amount of EEP expenditures incurred in such current DLI Period of up
to the value  of DLI Targets of the  subsequent  DLI Period achieved during
such current DLI Period, and the DLI Value in  the subsequent DLI Period
shall be  correspondingly  reduced;  and

(e) 

any such withdrawal  shall not exceed the lesser of:  (i) the total DLI Value
allocated  to  each DLI  Target  achieved  up  to the  respective  DLI  Period,
and  (ii) the amount  of the EEP  expenditures  incurred  but not  paid by  the
proceeds  of the Loan  as of the DLI Period for which payment is requested.

3. 

In the event that the Bank has withheld, or was entitled to withhold, any part of the
Loan  pursuant  to paragraph  2  above,  the Bank may  at  any time,  by notice  to the
Borrower  cancel  the  amount(s)  so withheld or to be withheld,  or reallocate  them,
whether  in  full or in part, to any  other Category.

4. 

The Closing Date is June  30,  2022.

DLI 

DLI  1: 
Number of applications 
submitted  on-line  for 
RTPS services 

DLI  2: 
Public  Facilitation 
Centers  fully 
operational.' 

Amount of the 

Loan Allocated  Year 0 Baseline 
to DLI 
(UM(000)

(2016-17) 

350,000 

Indicative DLI Period for  LI achievement

Year 2 
(2018-19) 

437,500 

Year 3 
(2019-20) 

612,500 

Year 4 
(2020-21) 

796,250 

Year 5
(2021-22)

1,035,125

ANNEX  to SCHEDULE  2

Disbursement  Linked  Indicators'

Year I 
(2017-18) 

Customized 
RTPS awareness
campaigns
conducted  across
state.

DLI  Value  (in  US$): 

2,500 

500 

500 

500 

500 

500

30 fully 
operational 
Public 
Facilitation 
Centers 
identified. 

Additional  120 
Additional  70 
Public 
Public 
Facilitation 
Facilitation 
Centers  fully 
Centers  fully 
operational  over 
operational  over 
Year  0 (i.e.  total  Year 2  (i.e.  total 
100  centers). 

220 centers). 

Additional  120 
Public 
Facilitation 
Centers  fully 
operational  over
Year  3 (i.e.  total
340  centers).

Additional  88  Public
Facilitation Centers  fully
operational  over  Year 4
(i.e.  total 428 centers).

250 

250 

250 

250

DLI  Value  (in  US$): 

1,000 

DLI 3: 
Access  to  RTPS 
Services  expanded  to 
Targeted  Districts. 

Coverage  of 
RTPS  Act is  not 
extended  to  the 

Preparation  and 
adoption of Tribal 
Action  Plans and 
notification of 5 

Notification  of 
10  new RTPS 
Services  by at 
least two 

Notification  of 10  Notification  of 10  Notification  of  10 new
new RTPS 
Services  by at 
least  two 

new RTPS 
Services  by  at 
least  two

RTPS  Services  by at
least two  Autonomous

I All  DLIs are  scalable with  partial achievements  eligible for  reimbursement in the relevant  year and the  carrying  over of what  has not been  achieved  for reimbursement  in  subsequent
years of the project. Measurement  will be  based  on the  arithmetical  value of the relevant  unit for  the DLL
I Fully operational  Public Facilitation  Centers would  entail  fully  equipped  centers with adequately  trained  staff that functions  at  least six  hours on  all working  days to  receive RTPS
requests,  and deliver a  targeted  set of RTPS  services, using electronic  means as  appropriate.

- 15 -

DLI 

Amount of the 
Loan Allocated  Year 0 Baseline 
to DLI 
(USSOO)

(2016-17) 

Autonomous 
Councils. 

Indicative DLI Period for DLI achievement

YearI 
(2017-18) 

Year 2 
(2018-19) 

Year 3 

(2019-20) 

Year 4 

(2020-21) 

Autonomous 
Councils over 
Year  I (i.e.  total  Year 2  (i.e.  total 
30 

Autonomous 
Councils over 

services) 

services) 

50 

Autonomous 
Councils over 
Year  3 (i.e.  total
70-  services)

new RTPS 
Services  by  at 
least two 
Autonomous 
Councils (i.e.
total  10 services)

Year5

(2021-22)

Councils  over Year 4
(i.e.  total 90  services)

1,100 

350 

350 

350 

350

DLI  Value  (in  US$): 

2,500 

DLI  4: 
Number of services 
notified under the 
RTPS.' 

55 services  have 
been  notified 
under the  RTPS. 

5 additional 
RTPS  Services 
over Year 0 
notified  (i.e. total 
60 services) 

DLI  Value (in  US$): 

Total Loan  Allocated 
(in  USS):_ 

1,500 

7,500 
7,500 

187.5 

1,787.5 

_1,787.5_1,475_1,475_1,475 

10 additional 
RTPS Services 
over  Year  I 
notified  (i.e. 
total  70 
services)

375 

1,475 

10 additional 
RTPS  Services 
over Year  2 
notified (i.e.  total 
80 services) 

10 additional 
RTPS  Services 
over Year 3 
notified  (i.e. total 
90  services)

5 additional  RTPS
Services  over Year 4
notified  (i.e.  total  95
services)

375 

1,475 

375 

1,475 

187.5

1,287.5

_1,287.5

3 Not including  RTPS  Services notified  in Targeted  Districts.

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The following  table sets  forth the  Principal Payment  Dates  of the  Loan and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal  Payment Date,  the principal  amount of the Loan  repayable  by the Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each Principal  Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each February  15  and  August 15

Beginning on August  15,  2022
throigh August  15,  2035 

On  February  15,  2036 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

3.57%
3.61%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  shall be  determined as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance as
of such  date  in accordance  with paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date falling  after the date  of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the Bank by multiplying  the amount of each such withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the nunierator  of which  is the original  Installment Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  1 of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted, as necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two  calendar months prior to  any Principal
Payment  Date shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the principal  amounts
payable  on any Principal  Payment  Date, be  treated  as withdrawn  and outstanding
on the second Principal  Payment Date  following  the date of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal Payment Date  following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if  at  any
time the  Bank adopts  a due  date billing system  under which  invoices are issued  on

-17-

or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding the provisions  of paragraphs  I  and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion  of all or any  portion of the Withdrawn Loan  Balance to an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date occurring during the Conversion  Period, shall be determined by  the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency payable  by the Bank  under the Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if  the Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with the  Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange  rate component of the  Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan
Currency, so  as to produce  a separate  amortization  schedule for  each such amount.

-18-

APPFNDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means  the "Guidelines  on  Preventing and Combating Fraud
and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed  by IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011.

"ARDMD"  means  the  Assam  Revenue  and  Disaster  Management  Department,  or  any
successor or successors  thereto.

"ARIAS  Society"  means the Assam Rural Infrastructure  and Agricultural  Services  Society
established  by  Assam  on  October  23,  1998  under  the  Borrower's  Societies  Registration
Act, for the  purposes, inter alia, of improving equity,  alleviating poverty, and accelerating
growth  of the farm sector, and  any successor acceptable  to the Bank.

"Assam's Legislation"  means  RTPS.

"Autonomous  Councils"  or  "ACs"  means,  collectively,  the  following  autonomous
administrative  councils of Assam to which the  Borrower's  central government  has granted
varying  degrees  of autonomy  within the  state  legislature  under the  Sixth Schedule  of the
Borrower's Constitution:  (i) the  Karbi Anglong autonomous  council;  (ii)  the Dima Hasao
District autonomous  council;  and  (iii)  the Bodoland  territorial  council;  and  any successor
thereto.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD  Loans and IDA Credits and  Grants by  World Bank Borrowers"  dated January
2011  (revised July 2014).

"DLr'  means  the  disbursement  linked-indicators  set forth  in  the Annex  to  Schedule  2 to
this  Agreement;  and "DLIs"  means  two  or more DLIs.

"DLI Period"  means  each of Borrower's  fiscal  periods specified in  the Annex to  Schedule
2 to this Agreement,  during which each DLI Target (as defined  herein) is set to be achieved;
and  "DLI Periods"  means two  or more DLI Periods.

"DLI  Target"  means,  for each DLI,  the  target specified  in  the  Annex to  Schedule 2  to  this
Agreement  set to  be achieved  under the applicable  DLI during  the respective DLI Period.

"DLI Value"  means the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated in  the Annex to  Schedule  2  to  each
respective  DLI Target;  or  such other  amount  as the  Bank may  establish  from time to time
by notice  to the Borrower.

"DLI  Verification  Protocol"  means the  set and  procedures  dated  April  12,  2017, prepared
for the Project and acceptable to the  Bank, to verify  the achievement of DLI Targets, which
sets  out, inter alia, the  description of the evidence  required;  as the same  may be amended
from  time to  time with the prior written  agreement  of the  Bank.

-19-

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

"Eligible  Expenditure  Program"  or the  acronym  "EEP" means  the  salaries  of ARDMD's
staff,  under  selected  major  heads  of  the  State  of  Assam  budget  related  to  stamps  and
registration  and  land  revenue  agreed  with  the  Bank,  which  are  defined  expenditures
incurred  by Assam under  Part 2  of the Project.

"Environmental  Management  Plan"  means  Assam's  plan  dated  January  28,  2016,  as
updated  and  re-disclosed  on  April  12,  2017,  setting  out  mitigation,  enhancement,
monitoring  and  institutional  measures,  required  to:  (i)  eliminate  adverse  environmental
impacts of activities  to be  implemented under the  Project; (ii)  offset them,  or reduce them
to  acceptable  levels;  (iii)  enhance  any  positive  impacts  thereof;  as  such  plan  may  be
revised, updated  or supplemented  from time  to  time with  the  prior written concurrence  of
the Bank.

"Financial  Management  Manual"  means  the  manual  adopted  by  the  ARIAS  Society  on
May  18,  2016, as updated  on April  12, 2017, describing, inter alia, the audit arrangements,
funds flow,  internal  control and delegation  of powers  arrangements  for the implementation
of Part  I of the Project.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated March  12,  2012,  with  the modifications  set forth  in
Section II  of this Appendix.

"Governing  Body"  means  the  body  maintained  by  Assam  in  accordance  with  Section
I.A. 1(b)  of the  Schedule to the Project Agreement.

"ICT"  means  information,  communications  and technology.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of incremental  expenditures
incurred  by ARIAS  Society on  account of implementation  of Part I  of the  Project,  which
expenditures  would not  have been incurred  absent the Project, including,  inter alia: office
space  rental  and  utilities,  office  maintenance  and  repair,  office  consumables,  vehicles
rental,  operation  and maintenance,  communications,  printing  and/or publication  expenses,
staff per  diems,  field  allowances,  travel  expenses,  bank  charges,  insurance  premia,  and
salaries and salary supplements  (other than those financed under the EEP)  of civil  servants
deputed  to ARIAS  Society  for purposes  of implementing the Project.

"Operations  Manual"  means  the  project  implementation  plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
which shall contain, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements  for the carrying
out  of the Project,  including procurement,  financial  management  and  audit  requirements
and procedures, the detailed  arrangements  for disbursements  and compliance  of DLIs, and
the  Financial  Management  Manual;  as the  same  may  be  amended from  time  to  time with
the prior written agreement  of the  Bank.

"Preparation  Advance"  means  the advance  referred  to  in  Section  2.07  (a) of the General
Conditions,  granted  by  the Association  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  letter agreement
signed on behalf of the  Association on July 28, 2014,  on behalf of the Borrower  on August
8,  2014,  and  on  behalf of  the  State  of  Assam  on  September  24,  2014,  as  amended  on
November  20, 2015.

-20-

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD Loans  and  IDA Credits  and  Grants by World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January 2011  (revised July 2014).

"Procurement  Plan"  means the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for the  Project,  dated  April
12,  2017  and  referred  to  in paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and paragraph
1.25  of the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance with  the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Guidance  Council" means  the  council  maintained  by  Assam  in  accordance  with
Section  I.A. 1(a)  of the  Schedule to  the Project  Agreement.

"Project Implementing  Entity" means the State  of Assam  (also referred to as Assam  in this
Agreement);  or any  successor(s)  acceptable  to  the Bank.

"Project  Management  Unit"  means  the  unit  established  and  maintained  within  ARIAS
Society  in accordance  with  Section  I.A-2  of the  Schedule to  the  Project  Agreement,  for
purposes of carrying  out the  Project.

"Public  Facilitation Centers"  means  the  centers  responsible  for  facilitating  access by  the
public to RTPS Services.

"RTPS"  means  Assam's Right of Public Service  Act of 2012, which:  (a) sets  deadlines for
the delivery  of notified  public  services;  (b)  creates  an  appellate structure  in the  event  that
government  officials  fail to meet those deadlines;  and (c)  allows the  imposition of penalties
for delays  in the  delivery  of public  services;  as  the same  may  be  amended  from time  to
time  so as not  to affect materially and  adversely the ability of Assam to  perform  any of its
obligations  under the  Project Agreement.

"RTPS  Services"  means the public  services notified by Assam under Section  4 of the RTPS
to  its  departments,  including  public  services  relating  to  revenue,  secondary  education,
transport, health  and  labor and  employment;  and "RTPS  Service"  means one  of the RTPS
Services.

"Targeted  Districts"  means,  collectively,  the  following  six  districts  under the jurisdiction
of  the  Autonomous  Councils:  (i)  Karbi  Anglong;  (ii)  Dima  Hasao;  (iii)  Baksa;  (iv)
Kokrajhar;  (v)  Chirang;  and  (vi)  Udalguri; and any successor thereto.
"Training"  means,  in  respect  of Part  1 of the  Project:  (a) reasonable  travel,  room  board,
and  per diem  expenditures  incurred  by  the trainers  and trainees  in  connection  with  their
training, including  workshops and  study tours;  (b) course  fees;  (c) training  facility rentals;
and (d) training material  preparation, acquisition,  reproduction  and distribution  expenses.

"Tribal  Action  Plans"  means  the plans  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and to  be  adopted  by  the
Autonomous  Councils  as one of the  DLI Targets  under DLI 3  to guide the  implementation
of the RTPS in  the Targeted  Districts.

"Tribal  Development  Plan"  means  Assam's  plan  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  disclosed  on
January  29,  2016  detailing the specific  actions,  measures  and policies  designed  to  ensure

-21  -

that, inter alia: (i)  the  Tribal  Peoples  are  adequately  and  fully  consulted;  (ii)  the  Tribal
Peoples  take  part  in  the entire  process  of preparation,  implementation  and  monitoring of
project;  (iii)  Project  benefits  are  equally  accessible  to  the  Tribal  Peoples  living  in  the
Project area because of their culture identities and  to minimize further  social and  economic
imbalances  within  communities;  and  (iv)  adequate  institutional  and  implementation
arrangements  as well  as capacity building  measures are  developed  for the  implementation
of the Project, including  associated  disclosure mechanisms  and  addressing any grievances;
as said plan may be  revised from time to time with the prior written  approval  of the Bank

"Tribal  Peoples"  means  those  social  groups  in  Assam's  territory  that  have  a  distinct,
vulnerable,  social  and  cultural  identity, and  that:  (i)  possess  the  following  characteristics
in  varying  degrees:  (a)  self-identification  as  members  of  a  distinct  indigenous  cultural
group and recognition  of this identity by others; (b)  collective attachment  to geographically
distinct  habitats  or ancestral  territories  in the  Project  area  and to the  natural  resources  in
these  habitats  and  territories;  (c)  customary  cultural,  economic,  social,  or  political
institutions  that  are  separate  from  those  of  the  dominant  society  and  culture;  (d)  an
indigenous  language;  and/or (ii) are  defined as such  by the Constitution  of India.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are  hereby  modified as follows:

In the  Table of Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names and  Section numbers
are modified  to reflect  the modifications  set forth  in the paragraphs  below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to  read as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee: Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay the Bank  a front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at  the rate

(a) 
specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment  charge on the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement  to the  respective  dates on which amounts  are withdrawn by the Borrower  from
the Loan Account or  cancelled.  The  Commitment Charge  shall be payable  semi-annually
in arrears  on  each Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and paragraphs
are  modified, as necessary,  to reflect  the modification  set  forth in  paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is modified  by inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the subsequent paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement for the  purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

34. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

- 22  -

5. 

6. 

In  the renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally  paragraph  48)  of the Appendix,  the definition
of "Front-end  Fee" is modified  by replacing  the reference  to Section 3.01  with Section 3.01
(a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of the term  "Loan Payment"  is modified to read as  follows:

"68. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to the  Legal Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including (but not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any transaction  fee  for a Conversion  or early termination  of a Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread Fixing  Charge  (if any), any premium  payable  upon  the establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar,  and any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

7. 

In the  renumbered paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the Appendix,  the definition
of "Payment  Date"  is modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge are"  after the  word "interest".

