OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8767-JO

Loan Agreement

(Innovative Startups Fund  Project)

THE  HASHEMITE  KINGDOM  OF JORDAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

z 

0 

4 

5s 

,2017

LOAN  NUMBER  8767-JO

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated 

,  2017,  between  THE  HASHEMITE
FOR
INTERNATIONAL 
KINGDOM  OF 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby
agree as  follows:

t1  A4. 
("Borro 

JORDAN 

BANK 

and 

r") 

41 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part  of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and conditions  set  forth or  referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  fifty  million  United  States  Dollars  ($50,000,000)
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement
("Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent

(0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent  (0.25%)  per annum on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest payable  by the  Borrower  for each  Interest Period  shall  be at  a rate  equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for the  Loan Currency  plus  the  Fixed  Spread;  provided,  however, that  the
interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be less  than  zero  percent (0%)  per  annum;  and provided
furthermore  that,  upon a  Conversion  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the
Loan,  the  interest  payable by  the  Borrower  during the  Conversion  Period on such  amount
shall  be determined  in accordance  with  the relevant  provisions of Article  IV of the General
Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if any amount  of the  Withdrawn Loan  Balance
remains  unpaid when  due and such non-payment  continues  for a period  of thirty  days,  then
the interest payable by  the Borrower  shall instead  be calculated as provided  in  Section 3.02
(e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment  Dates  are  May  15  and November  15  in  each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule set  forth in  Schedule  3 to  this  Agreement.

-2-

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to  an Approved Currency;  (ii)  a change of the  interest
rate  basis applicable  to:  (A)  all  or any portion of the principal  amount of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa; or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the  setting  of limits  on  the  Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate applicable  to all or any portion of the principal  amount of the Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding by  the establishment  of an  Interest  Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on  the Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

Any conversion requested  pursuant  to paragraph (a)  of this  Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objective  of  the  Project.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project through  the  JLGC in  accordance  with  the provisions
of Article  V  of the General  Conditions  and the  Project Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and  except  as
the  Borrower and the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower  shall ensure that the  Project
is carried  out  in  accordance  with the provisions  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist  of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

The  JLGC's  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so as to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the ability  of the JLGC to  perform
any  of its obligations  under the  Project Agreement.

JLGC  has  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Subsidiary
Agreement.

The  Articles  of  Association  establishing  ISSF  have  been  amended,  suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or waived  so  as to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability
of the  JLGC to  perform any  of its  obligations  under the  Project Agreement.

The  Management  Agreement  between  ISSF  and  the  ISSF  Manager  has  been
amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed or  waived so  as to affect  materially  and

-3-

adversely the ability of the JLGC to perform any of its obligations  under the Project
Agreement.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that either of the
events  specified in  paragraph (a)  and  (b)  of Section 4.01  of this  Agreement  has occurred.

ARTICLE V  -EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Legal  Matters  consists  of the  following.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

The  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  by  the  Borrower  and  JLGC
and  is  legally binding upon the  Borrower and  JLGC in accordance  with  its terms.

The  Management  Agreement  between  ISSF  and the  ISSF  Manager  has  been  duly
authorized  by  ISSF  and  the ISSF  Manager  and  is  legally  binding on ISSF  and  the
ISSF  Manager  in accordance  with  its terms.

The JLGC has established  the ISSF  in accordance  with the  laws  and regulations  of
the  Borrower  such  that  the  ISSF  has  the  capacity  to  perform  the  functions  and
obligations  assigned  to  it under the Project.

The Articles  of Association  and  Memorandum  of Association have been  signed  by
JLGC and  the  Central  Bank  of Jordan  ("CBJ") and  are  legally  binding on  JLGC
and the CBJ  in accordance  with  their respective  terms.

5.02. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date  one hundred twenty (120)  days  after the date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VI  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Planning and  International  Cooperation.

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  of Planning  and  International  Cooperation
Post office  Box  555
Amman,  11118
The  Hashemite  Kingdom  of Jordan
Facsimile:

962-6-464  9341

6.03. 

The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at 

above  written.

,oa 

7wc5 

kA 

, as  of the  day  and  year  first

THE  HASHEMITE KINGDOM 

JO  DAN

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative
Name: k44j  Mt (  FA koutV

Title:  MK'jr SYj

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

ithorized  Representative

Name:

Title: 

j 

1e_'&ecoAj

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The  objective  of the  Project is  to  increase  private  early  stage  equity  finance  for  innovative

small  and  medium  enterprises  ("SMEs").

The  Project consists  of the following  parts:

Part  A:  Equity/Quasi  Equity  Financing  Program

1 .

2. 

Establishment  and  operation  of a  legal  and  financial  mechanism,  namely  an  Innovative
Startups  and SMEs Fund  ("ISSF"), designed to  leverage  both public  and private  sources  of
funding  by  providing  equity  and  quasi-equity  capital  financing  ("ISSF  Investments")  to
financial  intermediaries  and/or to  young innovative  SMEs ("ISSF Beneficiaries").

Provision  of financing  to  ISSF  Beneficiaries  to  cover  costs  incurred  by  them  associated
with  starting  up and  commercializing  their business  activities,  including,  inter alia, costs
related  to  registering  and maintaining  intellectual  property  rights,  field  testing  of products
in the new  markets,  and back  office  support.

Part B:  Deal  flow creation  support

including, 

Provision  of financing  to  selected  professional  support  providers  ("Eligible  Professional
incubators  and  business
Services  Providers"), 
development  support  entities to  implement:  (1) incubation  and  acceleration  programs  for
entrepreneurs;  (2)  investment  readiness  and  business development  services  for  young and
established  SMEs;  and  (3)  establishment  and  maintenance  of Jordanian-based  business
angel  groups, training  and  mentoring  of angel  group members  and managers.

inter  alia,  accelerators, 

Part C:  Proiect  Management,  Coordination  and  Monitoring  and  Evaluation

the
Provision  of  technical  advisory  services  and  material  assistance 
management, coordination,  and monitoring  and evaluation  of the  Project,  and  to cover  the
Project-  related  management  and  Operating  Costs,  including  costs  incurred  by  JLGC  in
setting  up  ISSF,  and  Incremental  Fees.

to  support 

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  1. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements.

A. 

1. 

The Borrower,  through  its  Ministry of Planning  and  International  Cooperation,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

cause the  Project to  be carried  out  by  JLGC (the  "Project  Implementing  Entity");

no  later  than  forty-five  (45)  days  from  the  Effective  Date,  enter  into  a  tripartite
agreement  with  the Central  Bank of Jordan  ("CBJ") and  JLGC, whereby  the CBJ
agrees  to  provide  financing  to  JLGC in  an  amount  equivalent  to  thirteen  million
("Co-
eight  hundred  eighty 
Financing")  from  CBJ's own  resources,  on terms  and conditions  acceptable to  the
Bank,  to  cover the projected  counterpart  financing  requirements;  and

thousand  United  States  Dollars  ($13,880,000) 

establish  and  maintain throughout  the  life  of the  Project a  Monitoring  Committee
to monitor progress and implementation  of the Project. The  Monitoring Committee
shall  include  representatives,  inter alia,  of  JLGC,  Ministry  of  Planning  and
International  Cooperation,  Ministry  of Finance,  Ministry  of Industry  and  Trade,
and  CBJ.

2. 

The Borrower  shall ensure that  JLGC:

implements  the  Project  and  establishes  and  maintains  throughout  the  life  of the
Project  an  Implementation  Group,  with  a  mandate,  terms  of  reference  and  a
composition  acceptable  to  the Bank;

is  responsible  for  overall  coordination  of the  Project  and  overall  management  of
its  activities,  including  monitoring  and  evaluation,  fiduciary  and  safeguards
management, and  reporting requirements;

establishes  and maintains  the ISSF  throughout the  life of the  Project, in a form  and
with  functions  and  management  satisfactory  to the  Bank  and  having the  capacity
to  perform  its functions  under  Parts A  and B  of the  Project;

in accordance  with the criteria  established  in the  POM  and acceptable  to the  Bank,
and  no  later than  ninety  (90)  days  from  the  Effective  Date,  will  cause  ISSF  to
recruit  a  manager  of  ISSF  ("ISSF  Manager"),  with  terms  of  reference  and
qualifications  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  manage  ISSF's investment  activities  in
accordance  with the  Project Operations  Manual;

(e) 

no later than ninety  (90)  days  from the  Effective  Date,  recruits  a senior accountant
to  assist  with  execution  of the Project;

-7-

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

no  later  than  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  from  the  Effective  Date,  procures,
installs  and  adopts  an  Enterprise  Resource  Planning  ("ERP")  or  other  accounting
software  system  for  project  accounting,  budgeting  and  reporting  within  ISSF  and
ensures that the  ISSF  finance  and  accounting  staff are  fully  trained  in the adopted
software  system;

selects  a  Board of Directors  for  ISSF,  in  a  form,  composition  and  with  functions
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and  comprising  individuals  with  expertise  in  private
sector  industry,  equity  finance,  legal,  and/or  accountancy  background  with  the
Director  General  of JLGC acting  as the  Chairman of the Board;

causes  ISSF  to  hire  an  external  auditor  of ISSF  with  qualifications  and  terms  of
reference  acceptable  to  the  Bank  no  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  the  Effective
Date  and  shall  not  change  said  external  auditor  or  revise  or  amend  its  terms  of
reference,  throughout  the  life of the Project,  without the approval  of the  Bank;

causes  ISSF to  hire  a consultancy  firm- or extend the scope  of the external  auditor
to  perform  an  annual  audit of the  ISSF  Beneficiaries,  to  ensure  that the  selection
criteria  set  forth  in  the  POM  are  met  and  the  necessary  due  diligence  has  been
carried  out  ("Agreed  Upon  Procedures  Review");

Within  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  from  Effective  Date,  causes  the  Board  of
Directors  of ISSF  to  establish  and  maintain the  Investment  Committee  in  a  form
and  with  functions,  staffing,  resources,  terms  of  reference  and  qualifications
satisfactory  to the Bank.  The Investment  Committee  shall  be chaired by  one of the
members  of the Board  of Directors (other than the Chairman  of JLGC) and  consist
of  the  ISSF  Manager  and  private  sector  individuals  selected  by  the  Board  of
Directors  of ISSF,  approved  by  JLGC and  acceptable to  the  Bank;  and

(k) 

to  enter 

causes  ISSF 
into  a  management  agreement  with  ISSF  Manager
("Management  Agreement")  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
which  shall  include,  inter alia, the following:

(i) 

(ii) 

without prejudice  to  the provisions  of subparagraph  2(b)  above,  the  ISSF
Manager  shall: (A)  recruit and maintain,  throughout  the life of the Project,
the  necessary  personnel,  with  mandate, 
terms  of  reference  and
composition  (including  a  financial  officer,  an  accountant  and  an  internal
auditor)  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (B)  be  responsible  for carrying  out
coordination  of the  Project  and  day-to-day  management  of its activities,
including  monitoring 
evaluation, 
safeguards
management,  and reporting  requirements;

fiduciary 

and 

and 

the ISSF Manager  shall carry  out the Project in accordance  with the Project
Operations  Manual  and  shall  not  amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or
waive  any  provision  of the  Project  Operations  Manual  without  the  prior
approval of the  Bank;

-8-

(iii) 

(iv) 

The  ISSF  Manager  shall  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,
pre-screening, 
ISSF
Investments,  acceptable  to  the Bank;  and

supervision  procedures 

evaluation 

and 

for 

The  ISSF  Manager  shall  select  Eligible  Professional  Services  Providers
for  implementing  Part  B  of the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  Bank-
approved  guidelines  and  eligibility  criteria,  and  as reflected  in the  POM,
to  carry  out Part  B  of the Project.

3. 

For the  purposes  of Project  implementation,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure that:

JLGC enters  into a  Project Agreement  with  the  Bank;

JLGC  ensures  that  ISSF  carries  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  Project
Operations  Manual  and  the  Project  Agreement  and  does  not  amend,  suspend,
abrogate,  repeal  or waive  any provision  of the Project  Operations  Manual  without
the prior  approval  of the  Bank;  and

(c) 

JLGC  monitors  and  manages  the  Designated  Account  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of this Agreement,  the  Project Agreement  and  the POM.

Subsidiary  Agreement

B. 

1 .

To  facilitate  the carrying  out of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of the
Loan  available  to  JLGC under  a  subsidiary  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  JLGC
("Subsidiary  Agreement"),  under terms  and  conditions approved  by  the Bank,  which shall
include  the  following:

JLGC  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this
Agreement,  the Project  Agreement  and the  POM;

JLGC shall  exercise  its  rights  under the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such  a manner
as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to  accomplish  the
purposes  of the Loan;

except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, JLGC or the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,
amend, abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  or any of its  provisions;

JLGC shall  not be liable  to  the  Borrower  for any  Loan Payments,  and  shall  not  be
liable  to the  Borrower  for financial  losses  from  ISSF  Investments;

JLGC shall  return  any profits  from  ISSF  Investments  to  the Borrower  twelve  (12)
years  after the  Closing  Date  or at  such  later  date  as  the  Borrower  and JLGC  shall
agree;

JLGC shall  cause  the  Board  of  Directors  of ISSF  to  make  any  Agreed  Exits  in
accordance  with  the terms,  conditions and methods  set forth  in the POM,  and shall
reinvest  any  amounts arising  from  such Agreed  Exits in  further  ISSF  Investments
in  accordance  with  the  provisions of this  Agreement,  the  Project  Agreement  and

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

-9-

the  POM,  and  shall  return  any  amounts remaining  from  such  Agreed  Exits  to  the
Borrower  twelve  (12)  years  after  the  Closing  Date  or  at  such  later  date  as  the
Borrower  and JLGC shall  agree; and

(g) 

to  facilitate the carrying  out  of Parts A  and  B  of the  Project,  JLGC shall:

(i) 

(ii) 

establish  and maintain  the  ISSF  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this
Agreement,  the  Project Agreement  and the  POM;  and

ensure  that  any  key  changes  to  the  investment  strategies  pursued  by  the
Board of Directors  of ISSF  or ISSF  Manager receive prior approval  by the
Bank,  JLGC and the  Investment  Committee.

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights  under the  Subsidiary Agreement  in such  manner as
to  protect the interests of the Borrower  and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes  of the
Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate or  waive  the Subsidiary  Agreement  or any  of its  provisions.

The Borrower  shall  ensure that the  Project is  carried out  in accordance  with  the provisions
of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

2. 

D. 

1. 

C. 

Anti-Corruption

ISSF  Sub-Financing

The  Borrower,  through  JLGC,  shall  ensure  that  ISSF  selects  ISSF  Beneficiaries  and
approves  ISSF  Investments  and  the  related  ISSF  Sub-financing  in  accordance  with  the
eligibility  criteria,  terms  and  investment  guidelines  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operations
Manual,  including  the  requirements  that each  ISSF  Beneficiary  must:

have  physical  operational  presence  in  the  Borrower's  territory  and,  if the  ISSF
Beneficiary  is  a  financial  intermediary,  invest in  companies  physically  located  in
the  Borrower's territory;

(b) 

not  have  an adverse  or disclaimer  audit opinion in  the last three years;

not be  under litigation  or on  a list of banned or suspended  companies  by JLGC or
by the  Bank;  and

not have  any key personnel  with  a criminal record  or who are  on any list  of banned
or  suspended individuals  by  JLGC or  by the  Bank.

(a) 

(c) 

(d) 

2. 

The Borrower  shall ensure,  through JLGC, that ISSF provides  ISSF Sub-Financing to  ISSF
Beneficiaries 
investment
guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  included  in  the  POM,  which  shall  include  the
following:

in  accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria,  procedures  and 

-10-

(a) 

(b) 

(a) 

the  choice  of  ISSF  Beneficiaries  and  the  selection  of  investment  activities  and
sectors  of activity shall  be undertaken  according  to  industry  best practices  and on
the basis of principles  of good governance,  equity and transparency;  and

no  investment  activity  or  sector  of activity  shall  benefit  from  funding  under  the
Project  if it belongs  to  the negative  list  of activities or  sectors  of activity deemed
ineligible  for support  under the  Project  and specified  in the  ESMF  and POM.

3. 

To facilitate the  carrying out  of Part  A(1)  of the Project,  the Borrower  shall  cause JLGC to
ensure  that  each  ISSF  Sub-financing  Agreement  entered  into between  the  ISSF  and  each
ISSF  Beneficiary  includes  provisions that  ensure  that the ISSF  obtains  rights  adequate  to
protect its  interests  and those of JLGC, the Borrower,  and the Bank,  including the right to:

terminate  the  right  of the  ISSF  Beneficiary  to  use  the proceeds  of the  ISSF  Sub-
financing,  or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any  part  of the  amount  of the  ISSF  Sub-
financing  received,  upon  the  ISSF  Beneficiary's  failure  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations  under the  ISSF  Sub-financing  Agreement;  and

(b) 

require  each  ISSF  Beneficiary  to:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

in
carry  out  its  operations  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and 
accordance  with  sound 
financial,  managerial,
environmental  and  social  standards  (including  Safeguards  Instruments)
and  practices,  all  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  in  accordance  with
the  provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable to  recipients
of loan  proceeds  other than the  Borrower;

technical,  economic, 

provide, promptly  as needed,  the resources  required  for the purpose  of the
ISSF  Sub-financing;

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it  to  monitor  and
evaluate  its  operations,  in  accordance  with  indicators  acceptable  to  the
Bank;

maintain  a  financial  management  system  and  prepare  financial  statements
in  accordance  with consistently  applied  accounting  standards  acceptable
to  the Bank,  both  in a  manner adequate  to  reflect its  operations,  resources
and expenditures;

have  such financial  statements  audited by  independent  auditors  acceptable
to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards
acceptable  to the  Bank,  and promptly  furnish the  statements  as so  audited
to the  ISSF  and,  if so requested,  the Bank;

(vi) 

enable the ISSF  and the Bank to inspect the ISSF  Beneficiary's  operations
and any  relevant records  and  documents;  and

-11-

4. 

5. 

I. 

2. 

1. 

2. 

G. 

I. 

(vii) 

prepare  and furnish  to  the Borrower  and  the  Bank  all  such  information  as
the  Borrower  or  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request  relating  to  the
foregoing.

The Borrower  shall  cause JLGC to  ensure that  ISSF  shall  exercise  the rights  and carry  out
the obligations  of the  ISSF  under each  ISSF  Sub-financing  Agreement  in  such manner  as
to protect the  interests of JLGC, the  Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan.

The  Borrower shall  cause JLGC to ensure that the ISSF  shall  not assign,  amend, terminate,
abrogate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any  ISSF  Sub-financing  Agreement  or  any  of  its
provisions,  except  as the  Bank and the  Borrower  shall  otherwise agree.

E. 

Investment Support Financing

To facilitate  the carrying out  of Part A(2)  of the Project,  the  Borrower,  through JLGC, shall  ensure
that:

the  ISSF  provides  Investment  Support  Financing  to  ISSF  Beneficiaries,  selected  in
accordance  with the  eligibility criteria  and terms  set forth in the Project Operations Manual,
and  subject to  Investment Committee's  review, recommendation/  approval;  and

an  Investment  Support  Financing Agreement  is  entered  into  between  ISSF  and  each  ISSF
Beneficiary,  in  accordance  with  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Project  Operations
Manual.

F. 

Deal  Flow  Creation Financing

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of Part  B  of the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through  JLGC,  shall  ensure
that:

the  ISSF  provides  Deal  Flow  Creation  Financing  to  Eligible  Professional  Services
Providers,  selected  in  accordance  with  the  eligibility  criteria  and  terms  set  forth  in  the
Project Operations  Manual;  and

a Deal Flow Creation  Financing Agreement  is entered  into between  ISSF and each Eligible
Professional  Services  Provider, in accordance  with the terms and conditions  set forth in the
Project Operations  Manual.

Safeguards.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  JLGC  to  monitor  on  a  continuing  basis  the  implementation  of
the  Safeguard  Instruments  and ensure that the  Project is executed  in strict accordance  with
such  Safeguard  Instruments,  and,  upon the  occurrence  of any  event  or  condition  likely to
interrupt  or  interfere  with  the  smooth  implementation  of the  Safeguard  Instruments,  the
Borrower shall  cause JLGC to  act promptly  to deal with  or address such  event or condition,
and inform  the  Borrower  and the  Bank  accordingly.

2. 

For the  purposes  of any  ISSF  Investment  or other activity  under  the  Project,  and  prior  to
implementation  thereof, the  Borrower  shall  ensure that any  plan,  action  plan,  fact  sheet  or

-12-

other  instrument  required  in  terms  of any  one or  more of the  Safeguard  Instruments,  shall
have  been  duly:

(a) 

prepared  in  form and substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  and,  except as otherwise
agreed  with  the  Bank, submitted  to  the Bank for review  and approval,  and

(b) 

thereafter adopted  and  publicly  disclosed.

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  JLGC  to  take  all  measures  necessary  on  its  part  to  regularly
collect,  compile,  and  submit  to  the  Bank,  on  an  annual  basis,  reports  on  the  status  of
compliance with  the  Safeguard  Instruments,  giving  details of:

(a) 

(b) 

measures  taken  in  furtherance  of such  Safeguard  Instruments;

any  event  or  condition  which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with  the  smooth
implementation  of such Safeguard  Instruments;  and

(c) 

remedial  measures  taken or required to be taken to  address such event or condition.

Except  as the  Bank shall  otherwise  agree  in writing,  the  Borrower  shall  not  amend,  waive
or abrogate, or  cause to  be amended,  waived  or abrogated,  any provision  of the Safeguard
Instruments.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  JLGC to  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and
prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the General
Conditions, and  on the basis of indicators  acceptable to the Bank and set  forth in the Project
Operations  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period  of one  calendar  semester,
and  shall  be  furnished  to the  Bank  not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of the
period covered  by  such report.

Financial Management,  Financial  Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  cause  both  JLGC and  ISSF  to  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

Without  limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
JLGC and  ISSF to  prepare  and furnish  to the  Bank not  later than  forty-five  (45)  days  after
the  end  of  each  calendar  quarter,  interim  unaudited  financial  reports  for  the  Project
covering the semester,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower, through  JLGC, shall  cause  ISSF to  have  the  Project's Financial  Statements
audited  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09(b)  of the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of  ISSF.

4. 

A. 

I. 

B. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

-13-

The  audited  Financial  Statements  for each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank not
later than  six months  after  the end of such period.

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  each  audit  referred  to  in  the  preceding  paragraph  shall
include  an  audit  of  Project  Accounts,  and  of  Eligible  Expenditures,  conducted  in
accordance  with  guidelines  and  modalities  agreed  with  the  Bank,  and  reflected  in  the
external  auditor's terms  of reference.

Section  III. 

Procurement

All  goods, works,  non-consulting  services  and  consulting services  required  for the  Project
and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth  or  referred  to  in  the  World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  Borrowers
under  Investment  Project  Financing  dated  July  1, 2016  ("Procurement  Regulations"),  and  the
provisions  of  the  Recipient's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project  ("Procurement  Plan")  dated
May  11,  2017 provided  for under Section  IV  of the  Procurement  Regulations,  as the  same may  be
updated  from time to  time in agreement  with the  Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

General

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
of Article  II of the General  Conditions,  this  Section, and  such additional instructions  as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to the  Borrower  (including  the  "World  Bank  Disbursement
Guidelines  for  Projects"  dated February  1, 2017, as revised  from time to  time  by the  Bank
and as made  applicable to this Agreement  pursuant to such  instructions), to finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as  set  forth in  the table  in paragraph  2  below.

The following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may  be financed
out of the  proceeds of the  Loan ("Category"),  the allocation  of the  amounts  of the  Loan to
each Category, and the percentage  of expenditures to  be financed for  Eligible Expenditures
in each  Category.

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 
46,875,000 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
98%

A. 

1. 

2. 

3,000,000 

50%

Category 

(1)  ISSF  Investments  for  Part 
A(1)  of the Project,  goods,
services,
non-consulting 
consulting  services  and
Training  under Part  B

(2)  Goods, 

non-consulting 
consulting
services, 
and  Training
services 
under  Part  A(2)  and  Part
C, Project Operating Costs
and  Incremental  Fees

-14-

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

125,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section 
2.03 
this
Agreement  in accordance  with
Section 2.07 (b)  of the General
Conditions

of 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

50,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be made  for
payments  made:

(a) 

prior  to  the  date  of this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate
amount not to exceed  $500,000 may be made for payments,  previously agreed with
the  Bank,  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  May  11,  2017  for  Eligible
Expenditures;  and

(b) 

under Category  1, unless  the  Chief Financial  Officer has  been  hired by  ISSF.

2. 

The Closing  Date  is November 30,  2023.

-15-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The following table  sets  forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have  been fully withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a)  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the
Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date,  such  repayable  amount to  be adjusted,
as  necessary,  to deduct  any  amounts referred  to  in  paragraph 4  of this  Schedule, to  which
a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each  May  15  and November  15

Beginning May  15,  2022 
through November  15,  2051

On  May  15,  2052 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as  a  Percentage)

1.64%

1.60%

2. 

If the  proceeds of the  Loan have  not  been fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  Borrower shall  repay  the  Withdrawn Loan  Balance  as
of such date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the  date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the  Bank  by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in  paragraph  I  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts repayable  to  be adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months  prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and outstanding
on the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date of withdrawal.

-16-

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank adopts  a due date  billing system  under which invoices  are  issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to  any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraphs  I and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a  Currency
Conversion of all  or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan  Balance to  an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date occurring  during the Conversion  Period,  shall be determined  by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (a)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (b)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the  exchange  rate  component  of the Screen  Rate.

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions of this Schedule  shall  apply separately  to the amount  denominated in each  Loan
Currency,  so as to  produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for each such  amount.

-17-

APPENDIX

Section  1. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Agreed  Exit"  means  any  exit  from  any  ISSF  Investment  in  accordance  with  the  terms,
conditions and  methods  set forth  in the  POM.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and revised in January  2011.

"Articles  of Association"  means  the Articles  of Association  of ISSF  establishing  ISSF  as
a Jordanian  Private  Shareholding  Company.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Deal  Flow  Creation  Financing"  means  a  payment  made  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
to  an Eligible  Professional  Services  Provider  under  Part  B  of the Project.

"Deal  Flow Creation  Financing  Agreement"  means  an agreement  between the ISSF  and an
Eligible Professional  Services  Provider  pursuant to Schedule 2,  Section 1, Part  F,  paragraph
2  of this Agreement  describing  the  rights,  duties  and responsibilities  of each party,  which
shall comply  with  the provisions  of this  Agreement,  the Project  Agreement  and the  POM,
and the format  of which  shall  be set  forth  in the  POM.

"Designated  Account"  means  the designated  account opened  by JLGC for the  purposes  of
the  Project,  into which amounts  withdrawn from the  Loan will be  deposited,  in accordance
with the  provisions of the General  Conditions and the  Disbursement  Guidelines.

"Disbursement  Guidelines"  means 
Projects"  dated  February  1, 2017.

the  "World  Bank  Disbursement  Guidelines  for

"Eligible  Professional  Services  Provider"  means  a  professional  support  provider,
including,  inter alia, accelerators,  incubators,  and  business  development  support  entities,
which  has  met  the  eligible  criteria  set  forth  in  the  POM  to  be  eligible  for  Deal  Flow
Creation  Financing  under  Part  B  of the  Project.

and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means 

"Environmental 
the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  dated  May  3,  2017,  issued  by  or  on
behalf of the  Borrower and thereafter publicly  disclosed, providing  an analysis of potential
impacts  on  the  human  and  biophysical  environment  associated  with  the  Project,  an
assessment  of  the  risks  and  likelihood  of  potential  adverse  social  and  environmental
impacts,  and  a  checklist  of plans  and  measures  designed  to  prevent,  manage  or  mitigate
such potential  adverse  impacts.

I1. 

"Implementation  Group"  means  the  group  established  within  JLGC assigned  to  work  on
implementation  of the  Project,  comprising  of civil  servants  including the  Project  Director,

-18-

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

Project  Coordinator,  and  other  specialized  staff, and  consultants  that  may  be  specifically
retained to  work  on Project  implementation.

"Incremental  Fees" means  legal  fees  directly related  and limited to the costs of establishing
ISSF  and  preparation  of  any  legal  opinions  as  may  be  requested  by  the  Bank  during
implementation  of the  Project,  all  based on budgets  acceptable  to the  Bank, but  excluding
any fees  arising  from or related  to  disputes,  arbitration,  mediation,  litigation or  settlement.

"Innovative  Startup  and  SMEs  Fund,"  or  "ISSF"  means  a  holding  company  to  be
established  for the  Project by JLGC as a subsidiary  of JLGC and the Central  Bank of Jordan
under the  laws  of the  Borrower  for the  purpose  of making  ISSF  Investments  and  holding
the equity  interests  in  such ISSF  Investments,  referred  to in  Section  I.B. 1(g)  of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement.

"Investment  Committee"  means the investment committee  referred  to in Section  1.A.2(j)of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,  responsible  for review  and approval  of ISSF  Investments.

"Investment  Support Financing"  means  a  payment  made  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan
to  an ISSF  Beneficiary  under  Part  A(2)  of the Project.

"Investment  Support  Financing Agreement"  means an agreement  between  the ISSF and  an
ISSF  Beneficiary  pursuant to  Schedule  2,  Section  I, Part  E,  paragraph  2 of this  Agreement
describing the rights, duties and responsibilities  of each party, which  shall comply  with the
provisions of this Agreement,  the Project Agreement  and the POM, and the format of which
shall  be set  forth in the  POM.

"ISSF  Investment"  means  equity  investment  made  by  the  ISSF  in  an  ISSF  Beneficiary
pursuant  to  Section  I(D)  of Schedule  2  which has  met the eligibility  criteria  set forth  in the
POM.

"ISSF  Beneficiary"  means  any  Financial  Intermediary,  an  innovative  SME,  or  a  new
startup  which  has met  the  eligible  criteria  set  forth  in  Section  1(D)  of Schedule  2  and  the
POM  to be eligible  for an  ISSF Sub-financing  or Investment  Support  Financing  under Part
A  of the  Project.

"ISSF  Manager"  means a physical or legal  person  selected to manage the ISSF and referred
to  in  Section  I.A.2(d)  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"ISSF  Management  Fee" means  a fee  for the administration  expenses incurred  by the ISSF
Manager  in relation  to the  Project,  as determined and defined  in the detailed  budget setting
out an analysis  of, and calculation  for the  ISSF  Management  Fee, acceptable  to  the  World
Bank,  as  such  budget  may  be  updated  from  time to  time  by  agreement  between  the  ISSF
Manager,  JLGC and the  Bank.

21. 

"ISSF  Sub-financing"  means  a payment  made  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan to  an  ISSF
Beneficiary  in exchange  for an  ISSF  Investment.

-19-

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

"ISSF  Sub-financing  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  between  the  ISSF  and  an  ISSF
Beneficiary  pursuant  to  Schedule  2,  Section  1, Part  D,  paragraph  3  of this  Agreement,
describing the rights, duties and  responsibilities of each party, which  shall comply  with  the
provisions of this Agreement,  the Project Agreement  and the POM, and the format of which
shall  be set  forth in the  POM.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for  Reconstruction and  Development
General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the  modifications  set forth  in
Section  II of this  Appendix.

"JLGC" or "Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  legal  entity established  pursuant  to
Jordan's  Company's  Law  No.  22,  1994,  under  Registration  No.  242,  by  the  Borrower
pursuant to the  Project Implementing  Entity's  Legislation,  or any  legal  successor  thereto.

"JLGC's  Legislation"  means  Articles  of Association  of JLGC  executed  under  Jordan's
Company's  Law No.  22  of  1997

"Management  Agreement"  means the agreement  referred to  in Section  1.A.2(k)of Schedule
2  to  this  Agreement,  to  be  entered  into  between  ISSF  and  ISSF  Manager,  outlining
management  responsibilities  for  ISSF  the purpose  of Parts A  and  B  of the  Project.

"Memorandum  of  Association"  means 
establishing  ISSF  as a Jordanian  Private  Shareholding  Company.

the  Memorandum  of  Association  of  ISSF

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  incremental  expenses  incurred  on  account  of
Project implementation  by  ISSF  and JLGC, management  and  monitoring,  including  office
supplies,  the  cost  of  publication  of  procurement  notices,  vehicle  operation,  office  and
equipment  maintenance  and  repair,  communication,  translation  and  interpretation,  travel
and  supervision  costs,  and  other  miscellaneous  costs  directly  associated  with  Project,  as
determined  by  the  Bank  but  excluding  salaries  of civil  servants  and  employees  of the
Borrower  or the Project  Implementing  Entity.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means  the  "Procurement  Regulations  for  Borrowers  under
Investment  Project Financing  (IPF)  dated July  1, 2016 of Goods, Non-consulting  Services,
and Consulting  Services.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated  May
11,  2017  and referred  to  in  Section  IV  of the  Procurement  Regulations,  as  the same  shall
be updated  from time to time in  accordance  with the  provisions of said  paragraphs.

"Project  Operations  Manual"  or "POM"  means  the project  operations  manual,  acceptable
to  the  Bank  setting  forth  procedures  and  requirements  for  carrying  out  the  Project,  and
adopted  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to
time  with  the agreement of the  Bank.

32. 

"Safeguard  Instruments"  means  any  one  or  more  of the  ESMF  and  any  other  safeguard
instrument derived therefrom  or  adopted  pursuant  thereto.

-20-

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

"SME" means  a small  or medium-size  enterprise.

"Startup"  means  any SME in the process of becoming operational  or any existing  SME that
has  yet to  sell its  product  or service commercially,  as set  forth in the  POM.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  L.B  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
available to  the JLGC.

"Training"  means  expenditures  for  the  Project  related  to  study  tours,  training  courses,
seminars,  workshops  and  other  training  activities  not  included  under  goods  or  service
providers'  contracts,  including  costs  of training  materials,  space  and  equipment  rental,
travel  and per diem costs  of trainees  and trainers.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are  hereby modified  as  follows:

1. 

In  the Table  of Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are  modified  to reflect the  modifications  set  forth  in the paragraphs  below.

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at the  rate

(a) 
specified  in the  Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower shall  pay the Bank a commitment  charge on the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement  to the respective  dates  on which amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the Borrower  from
the  Loan  Account or cancelled.  The  Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually
in arrears  on  each Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified,  as necessary,  to reflect  the modification  set  forth in  paragraph 2  above.

The Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

.l9. 

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

In  the  renumbered  paragraph 49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the Appendix,  the  definition
of "Front-end  Fee"  is modified by replacing  the reference  to Section 3.01  with  Section 3.01
(a).

-21-

6. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the  definition
of the term "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to  read as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to the  Legal  Agreements  or these General  Conditions,  including (but  not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by  the
Borrower."

7. 

In  the renumbered  paragraph 73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and
Commitment  Charge are"  after the  word "interest".

