OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8731-AR

Loan  Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for the Plan  Belgrano - Water Supply  and  Sanitation  Services
Development  Project)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement  as  of the  Signature  Date  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement),
between  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC 
("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the  purpose  of providing  additional
financing  for the  Original  Project (as  defined  in the  Appendix to  this Agreement).  The Borrower
and  the  Bank hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank  agrees to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this  Agreement,  the  amount  of  one  hundred  and  twenty  five  million  Dollars
(125,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in accordance  with the provisions  of Section 2.08  of this Agreement ("Loan"),
to  assist in  financing the project  described  in  Schedule  1 to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.  The Borrower's  Representative  for purposes  of taking  any
action  required  or permitted  to  be taken  pursuant  to this  Section  is its Minister  of Finance
or MoF's Undersecretary  of International  Financial Relations.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter of one  percent
(0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%)  per annum on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The interest  payable  by the Borrower  for each  Interest  Period shall  be at a rate equal  to  the
Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the Variable  Spread;  provided,  however, that
the  interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero  percent  (0%)  per  annum;  and
provided furthermore that, upon a Conversion of all or any  portion of the principal  amount
of the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such
amount  shall be determined  in accordance  with  the relevant provisions  of Article  IV of the
General Conditions. Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if any  amount of the Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  remains  unpaid when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for a  period of thirty
days, then  the  interest payable  by the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in
Section 3.02  (e)  of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The  Payment Dates are January  15  and July  15  in  each year.

-2-

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set forth  in Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i) a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of  all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn, to  an Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a change of the interest
rate  basis applicable  to:  (A)  all or any  portion of the principal  amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding from a  Variable  Rate to  a  Fixed Rate, or vice versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount  of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate
based on a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting of limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or the
Reference Rate applicable  to all or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate  Cap or Interest
Rate Collar  on the  Variable  Rate  or the Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion requested  pursuant to paragraph (a)  of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the General  Conditions  and  of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar  for which the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be  paid  out of the
proceeds  of the  Loan, the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from time  to  time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower,  through  MIPWH,  declares  its commitment to the  objectives  of the Project.
To  this  end,  the  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  with  the
assistance  of  the  Participating  Provinces  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  pertinent
Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement,  all  in  accordance  with  the  Annual
Operating  Plans  and  the  provisions  of Article V  of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon the  provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  and  except  as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project
is  carried out in accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after  the
Signature  Date.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

Except as  provided  in  Section 2.02  of this Agreement,  the  Borrower's  Representative  is
its Minister  of Finance. 

-

5.02. 

The  Borrower's Address  is:

Ministry of Finance
Hip6lito  Yrigoyen  250
C 1086  AAB,  Buenos  Aires
Argentina

Cable: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

MINISTERIO
DE  FINANZAS 

121942-AR 

(5411)  4349-8815

5.03. 

The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  3JLx,Cp  A  A 

VY, d 

,  on  behalf  of the  Bank  on

Auc4-u 

4L1 

f.  £4 },  and  on behalf of the  Borrower  on  Au 

il___ ,  2OCA_ 

_

-4-

By

By

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

Authorized  Representative

Name:  Luis  Andres Caputo

Title:  Minister of Finance

INTERNATIO 
RECONSTRUC 

L BAN 
N 

R

D  VELOPMENT

Auth 

ized RejAsentative

Name:  Jorge  Familiar

Title:  Vice President  - Latin America and

the  Caribbean  Region

-5-

SCHEDULE1

Project Description

The objectives  of the  Project are to  increase access  to  water supply and  sanitation  services
and  improve  the  operational  and  financial  performance  of the water  supply and  sanitation  services
(WSS)  Service  Providers  in the  Project Area.

The  Project consists  of the  following  parts:

Part A:  Water  Supply  and  Sanitation  Infrastructure

1 .

Carrying  out  of  demand-driven  Subprojects  consisting  of the  rehabilitation,  upgrading
and/or reconstruction  of Participating  Provinces:

(a) 

(b) 

wastewater  collection,  conveyance,  treatment  and  disposal  systems  (such  as
wastewater  treatment  plants,  pumping  stations,  main  collectors  and  secondary
sewerage  networks);  and

water  supply systems  including,  for instance,  production and  distribution  systems.

Part B:  Institutional  and Operational  Development  and  Technical  Assistance

1 .

2. 

including,  for 

Carrying  out  of  tailored  institutional  and/or  operational  strengthening  programs  and
provision  of technical  assistance  for participating  WSS  Service  Providers  to improve  their
institutional  organization,  investment  planning,  management  capabilities  and  technical,
operational,  commercial  and  financial  efficiency 
the
development  of WSS-related  management  and  information  systems;  (b)  the  development
of WSS  customer databases  and  cadastres;  (c)  the provision  of technical  assistance  related
to  strategic  planning,  energy  efficiency  and  operational  efficiency  programs;  (d)  the
carrying  out  of  analysis  of cost-recovery  options  and  optimization  of rates  and  subsidy
structures;  (e)  design  and  implementation  of macro-  and  micro-metering  (including  minor
works) and non-revenue  water reduction  programs;  (f)  the provision of technical  assistance
for institutional  reorganization;  and  (g)  the  design  of training programs  for the  operation
and  maintenance  of  systems  and  installations  (focused  on  wastewater  treatment  plants,
water  treatment  plants  and  pumping  stations),  and  the  carrying  out  of  studies  related
thereto,  all under terms of reference  acceptable  to the Bank.

instance: 

(a) 

Carrying  out of technical  studies  required  to  support  the  preparation  and  implementation
of  Subprojects,  for  instance,  feasibility  studies,  analysis  of  alternatives,  engineering
designs,  economic  and  financial  analyses,  socio-economic  surveys,  environmental  and
social  impact  assessments  and  management  plans  (including  screening  and  risk
assessments,  supporting  the  preparation  of  safeguard  instruments  and  monitoring)  and
other  studies related  thereto, all  under terms of reference  acceptable  to  the Bank.

-6-

3. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Carrying  out  of  communication  plans,  dissemination  and  knowledge-sharing  activities
related  to the  Project, and training  and capacity  building  for the  institutional  strengthening
of UCPyPFE  and  Participating  Provinces.

Part C:  Project Management  and  Supervision

Carrying out of specialized independent  technical, environmental  and  social supervision  of
Subprojects'  implementation,  as required.

Carrying  out  of Project audits and  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  under the  Project.

Provision  of administrative  and  operational  support  (including  the  provision of Operating
Costs)  to  UCPyPFE  and  UCPyPFE-UEP  in  the  administration,  monitoring,  coordination
and  supervision of Project  implementation.

-7-

SCHEDULE2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation and Other Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

The  Borrower,  through  MIPWH,  shall  operate  and  maintain,  at  all  times  during  Project
implementation,  a  Project 
implementation  unit  organized  within  UCPyPFE  (the
UCPyPFE-UEP)  with  the  structure,  functions  and  responsibilities  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual,  which  shall  include,  inter alia, the  responsibility  to  carry  out  the
Project  (and  assist  the  UCPyPFE  in  the  coordination,  monitoring  and  supervision  of the
Project).

The  Borrower,  through  MIPWH,  shall  ensure  that UCPyPFE-UEP  is,  at all times  during
Project  implementation,  assisted  by  professional  staff  (including,  inter alia, a  Project
coordinator,  a financial  management  specialist, a procurement  specialist,  an environmental
specialist, a social  specialist  and a monitoring  and evaluation  specialist) and administrative
staff,  all  in  numbers  and  with  terms  of  reference,  and  qualifications  and  experience,
acceptable  to  the Bank.

Manuals

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  the  Borrower,
through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall:  (a)  carry  out  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  a  manual  (the  Operational  Manual)  and  the  pertinent  provisions  of  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework (including  the  EMPs, the RPF and  the
IPPF,  as determined  by the Bank);  and  (b)  cause the  pertinent  Participating  Provinces  (as
the  case  may  be)  to  comply  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of the  Operational  Manual  and
the  Environmental  and  Social Management  Framework (including  the EMPs, the  RPF  and
the  IPPF, as determined  by the  Bank)  in connection  with their participation  in the carrying
out of Subprojects.

In  case of any conflict  among the terms of the Operational  Manual,  the Environmental  and
Social  Management  Framework,  and those  of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.

Implementation Agreements

(a) 

Prior to  the carrying  out of any  given  activity  under Part B  of the  Project and  any
Subproject,  the  Borrower,  through  MIPWH  (through  UCPyPFE),  shall  enter  into
an  agreement  (the  Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement)  with  the
corresponding  Participating  Province  (or,  if  applicable,  amend  the  existing
Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement  with  said  Participating

2. 

B. 

1 .

2. 

C. 

1. 

Province),  all  under  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall
include,  inter alia, those set forth  in  Schedule 4 to  this Agreement.

(b) 

The Borrower,  through  MIPWH  (through  UCPyPFE),  shall  exercise  its rights and
carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance
Agreement  in such  manner as to  protect the  interests of the  Borrower and the Bank
and  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank shall  otherwise
agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not assign,  amend,  abrogate,  terminate,  waive  or fail to
enforce  any  Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement  or  any  of  its
provisions.

2. 

(a) 

Prior  to  the  carrying  out  of any  given  activity  under  Part  B. 1 of the  Project,  and
any  Subproject  included  in the  pertinent approved  Management  and  Results Plan
(which  Subproject  meets the eligibility  criteria set forth  in the Operational  Manual
to  be  carried  out  by  a  WSS  Service  Provider),  the  Borrower,  through  MIPWH
(through  UCPyPFE),  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  (the  Technical  Operation
Agreement)  with  the  corresponding  WSS  Service  Provider,  all  under  terms  and
conditions  acceptable  to the  Bank, including,  inter alia, those set forth in Schedule
5 to  this Agreement.

(b) 

The Borrower,  through MIPWH  (through  UCPyPFE),  shall exercise  its rights  and
carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Technical  Operation  Agreement  in  such
manner as to  protect the  interests of the  Borrower  and the Bank and  to accomplish
the  purposes of the  Loan.  Except as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend,  abrogate, terminate,  waive or fail to enforce  any Technical
Operation  Agreement or any  of its provisions.

Without limitation to the  provisions  of the General  Conditions,  the Bank and the Borrower
shall,  from  time  to time,  at the  request  of any  of them,  exchange  views jointly  with  the
relevant Participating  Province  so as to enable the  Bank to determine continued compliance
by the  relevant  WSS  Service  Provider  in  meeting  the  corresponding  eligibility  criteria  to
benefit  from  the  pertinent  Subproject  or  to  carry  out  Subprojects  (as  referred  to  in
paragraph  2 of this  Section), as this criteria is  further  detailed  in the  Operational Manual.

The Borrower,  through UCPyPFE,  shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the  provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Upon  the  selection  of any  given  Subproject  and  prior  to the  carrying  out  of the  pertinent
works  under  said  Subproject,  the  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall:  (a)  carry  out
and/or  cause to be  carried  out an  environmental/social  assessment  of the  pertinent works,
and  based  on  the  results  of said  assessment  as  determined  by the  Bank,  approve  and/or
cause  to  be approved  an  environmental/social  management  plan  or similar  environmental

3. 

E. 

1. 

D. 

Anti-Corruption

Safeguards

or  social  safeguards  instrument,  acceptable  to the  Bank,  for each  said  works  (which  plan
or  similar environmental/social  safeguards  instrument  shall  be  based  on the  results  of the
environmental/social  assessment  mentioned  herein,  and  the  Bank's  comments  on  the
results  of  said  assessment,  if  any),  all 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework;  and  (b)  immediately  after  said
approval, 
implement  and/or  cause  to  be  implemented  (as  the  case  may  be)  the
corresponding  environmental/social  management  plan  (or  similar  environmental/social
safeguards  instrument)  in  accordance  with  its  terms,  and  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

Without  limitation  to  the  pertinent  provisions  of this Agreement  in  respect  of any  given
Subproject  in which  works  are  involved,  and  if as  a result  of the  definition  of the  precise
sitting  alignments  it  is  determined  by  the  Bank  that  Resettlement  will  be  involved,  the
Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall:  (a)  prior  to the  carrying  out of any  said works,
prepare  and/or cause to be prepared and  furnish to the Bank, a resettlement  plan, acceptable
to  the  Bank  (which  plan  shall  be  consistent  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of  the
Resettlement  Policy  Framework);  and  (b)  thereafter,  implement  and/or  cause  to  be
implemented,  said  resettlement  plan  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  in  a  manner
acceptable  to the  Bank.

With  respect to the  carrying out of any  Subproject and when  so  determined  by the  Bank as
set  forth  in  the  IPPF  and  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  the
Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP  shall:  (a)  prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any  said
Subproject,  prepare  and/or  cause  to  be  prepared  and  furnish  to the  Bank, an  Indigenous
Peoples'  Plan,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (which  plan  shall  be  consistent with  the  pertinent
provisions  of the  IPPF);  and  (b)  thereafter,  adopt  and  implement  (and/or  cause  to  be
adopted  and  implemented)  said  Indigenous  Peoples'  Plan  in accordance  with its terms and
in a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

Other Arrangements

The  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  operate  and  maintain,  at  all  times  during
Project  implementation,  a  web page  for purposes  of disseminating  Project information  (as
determined  by  the  Bank), all  acceptable  to the  Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  ensure,  and/or  cause  the  Participating
Provinces to ensure, that the terms of reference for any consultancy in respect of any Project
activity  under Part B  of the Project (including  the preparation  of  Management  and  Results
Plans)  shall be  satisfactory to the  Bank following  its review  thereof and, to  that end, such
terms of reference  shall duly incorporate  the requirements  of the Bank  Safeguards  Policies
then in force,  as  applied to  the advice  conveyed  through such  technical  assistance.

The  Borrower, through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  not later than December  31  of each  year of
Project  implementation,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  an  Annual  Operating  Plan,
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter alia, the  Project activities  to  be  carried
out during  the following  calendar year.

2. 

3. 

F. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-10-

Section  H. 

Project  Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

Project Reports

A. 

1. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  monitor  and  evaluate  the  progress  of the
Project and  prepare  Project  Reports  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of
the  General Conditions and on the  basis of the indicators  set forth below in the  Operational
Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period of one  calendar  semester,  and  shall be
furnished to the  Bank not later than  forty five (45)  days  after the end  of the period covered
by  such  report.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports  and Audits

The  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a
financial  management  system  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  of the
General  Conditions.

The Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall prepare and  furnish to the Bank not later than
forty  five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  semester,  interim  unaudited  financial
reports  for  the  Project  covering  the  semester,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the
Bank.

The  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each audit
of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover the  period of one  fiscal year of the  Borrower.  The
audited Financial  Statements  for each such  period  shall be  furnished to  the  Bank not later
than  six months  after the  end of such  period.

The Borrower,  through  MIPWH,  shall,  prior to  the  commencement  of each  calendar  year
during  Project  implementation,  create,  and  thereafter  maintain  throughout  each  said
calendar year of Project implementation,  a  specific budget  line entry  in the national  annual
budget  in  order to  keep  track  of the  corresponding  expenditures  incurred  during  Project
implementation.

Section  III. 

Procurement

All  goods,  works,  non-consulting  services  and consulting  services  required for the Project
and  to  be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set forth  or referred  to in the  Procurement Regulations  and the  provisions
of the  Procurement  Plan.

-11-

Section  IV.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  II of the  General  Conditions,  this  Section,  and
such  additional  instructions  as the  Bank shall  specify by  notice to  the Borrower (including
the  "Disbursement  Guidelines  for Investment  Project Financing"  dated  February  2017,  as
revised  from time to time  by the Bank and  as made  applicable  to this Agreement  pursuant
to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible Expenditures  as  set forth  in the table  in  paragraph
2 below.

The following  table  specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures that  may be  financed
out of the proceeds  of the  Loan ("Category"),  the  allocation  of the amounts  of the  Loan to
each Category, and the percentage  of expenditures to  be financed  for Eligible Expenditures
in each  Category.

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 
75,000,000 
49,687,500 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
100%
100%

Category 

(1) Works  under Subprojects 
(2)  Goods,  works, consulting 
services,  non-consulting
services,  Training  and
Operating  Costs under Parts
B  and  C  of the  Project
(3) Front-end  Fee 

312,500 

0 

Amount  payable  pursuant to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b) of the
General  Conditions
Amount due  pursuant to
Section  2.08(c) of this
Agreement

(4)  Interest  Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate  Collar premium 

TOTAL  AMOUNT 

125,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be made  for
payments  made prior to  the  Signature  Date.

2. 

The Closing Date  is  April  30,  2020.

-12-

Section  V. 

Other Undertakings

The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby  agree  to  amend  the  Original  Loan  Agreement  as

reflected  in  Schedule  6 to this Agreement.

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

1. 

The following  table sets  forth the  Principal Payment  Dates of the Loan  and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the  proceeds of the  Loan have been fully  withdrawn as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
(a)
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

On  each January  15  and  July  15
Beginning  July  15,  2024
through January  15,  2049 

On July  15,  2049 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

1.96%
2%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been fully withdrawn  as of the first  Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  shall  be  determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the  extent that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as
of such date  in accordance  with  paragraph  I of this Schedule.

Any amount  withdrawn  after  the  first Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  falling  after the  date of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying the  amount  of each such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator  of which is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in the
table  in paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be adjusted, as  necessary, to  deduct any  amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn  within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts

-14-

payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date following  the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the  Bank adopts a due date  billing system  under which  invoices  are issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph  shall no longer apply to  any withdrawals  made after the  adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance to an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment Date  occurring during the Conversion  Period,  shall be determined  by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by  the  Bank under the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the exchange  rate  component of the  Screen  Rate.

5. 

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule  shall apply  separately to the  amount denominated  in each  Loan
Currency,  so as  to produce a separate  amortization  schedule  for  each  such  amount.

-15-

SCHEDULE4

Terms and Conditions  of the Participation, Transfer and Maintenance Agreements

Each  Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement  shall  contain,  inter alia, the

following provisions:

The  obligation  of the  Borrower,  through  MIPWH  (through  UCPyPFE-UEP),  to  carry  out
each  Subproject  in accordance  with  the pertinent provisions  of this Agreement.

2. 

The  right  of the  Borrower,  through  MIPWH  (through  UCPyPFE-UEP),  to  take  remedial
actions  against  the  pertinent  Participating  Province  (as  the  case  may  be)  in  case  the
Participating  Province  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of its  obligations  under  the
corresponding  Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement  (which  actions  shall
have  been  previously agreed  with the  Bank).

3. 

The  obligation  of the  Participating  Province:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

to assist the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-UEP,  in the carrying out of the pertinent
Subproject 
in  accordance  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including  technical, 
financial,  administrative,  environmental  and 
fiduciary
standards  acceptable  to  the Bank;

if applicable,  as  determined  by  the  Bank,  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of the
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework,  the  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  and  the  IPPF,  and  adopt  and  undertake  the  obligation  of  preparing
and/or carrying  out the pertinent  EMPs, IPPs,  resettlement  plans (as  referred  to in
Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement)  or  similar  safeguards  acceptable
instruments,  as  applicable,  in  accordance  with  their  terms  and  those  of  this
Agreement and  the Operational  Manual;

to  ensure  that  the  pertinent  Subproject  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  (by  for  example,  allowing  Bank
inspection  and  audit  rights  under  paragraph  9  (d)  of  the  Anti-Corruption
Guidelines);

to take or permit to  be taken  all action to  enable the Borrower, through UCPyPFE-
UEP, to  comply with  its obligations  referred to  in this Agreement,  as applicable to
the  carrying out of the pertinent  Subproject;

to  inspect  the  corresponding  Subproject 
provisions  of this Agreement  and  the Operational  Manual;

in  accordance  with  the  pertinent

to  prior  to  the  completion  of  the  pertinent  Subproject,  as  determined  by  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  to  prepare  an  action  plan  for  the  sustainability  of the

-16-

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

respective  Subproject,  acceptable  to  the  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  and
the  Bank;

if applicable,  and  upon  satisfactory  completion  of the  pertinent  Subproject,  as
determined  by  the  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  and  the  Bank,  to:  (i)
operate  and  maintain  said  Subproject  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in
accordance  with adequate  technical, social and  environmental  standards,  including
the  pertinent  provisions  of this  Agreement,  as  applicable  to  said  Subproject,  the
action  plan  referred  to  in  (f)  herein  and  the  Operational  Manual;  or  (ii)  enter  into
an  agreement  with  the  relevant  WSS  Service  Provider  (the  Operation  and
Maintenance  Agreement),  or  amend  the  existing  Operation  and  Maintenance
Agreement  (as  the  case  may be),  all under  terms and  conditions  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter  alia: (A)  the  obligation  of  the  WSS  Service
Provider to  operate and maintain  said Subproject with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  accordance  with  adequate  technical,  social  and  environmental  standards,
including  the  pertinent  provisions  of  this  Agreement  as  applicable  to  said
Subproject  (including  the  obligation  to  permit  the  Bank  and  the  Participating
Province  to visit  the  Subproject  site to  ensure  compliance  with the  provisions  set
forth  in  the  pertinent  Operation  and  Maintenance  Agreement),  the  action  plan
referred  to  in  (f)  herein  and  the  Operational  Manual;  and  (B)  the  right  of the
Participating  Province  to  take  remedial  actions against the  WSS  Service  Provider
in  case  said  WSS  Service  Provider  shall  have  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  its
obligations  under the  corresponding  Operation  and  Maintenance  Agreement;

to  review the  pertinent Management  and  Results  Plan, and,  if deemed  acceptable,
to  approve  it,  and  thereafter  submit  said  Management  and  Results  Plan  to  the
relevant  Provincial  regulator;

not  to  assign,  amend,  terminate,  abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the
Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement  or  the  Operation  and
Maintenance  Agreement  or  any  of  their  provisions  thereof,  unless  previously
agreed by the  Borrower,  through UCPyPFE-UEP,  and  the  Bank.

-17-

SCHEDULE5

Technical  Operation Agreement

Each  Technical  Operation  Agreement  shall  contain,  inter alia, the following  provisions:

The obligation  of the  Borrower, through  MIPWH (through  UCPyPFE),  to:

2. 

The obligation  of the pertinent  WSS  Service  Provider to:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

provide technical  assistance to  the pertinent WSS  Service  Provider under  Part B.1
of the  Project;

review,  provide  comments  and  approve  the  pertinent  Management  and  Results
Plan;  and

if applicable, promptly provide the funds necessary  to carry out, or enable the WSS
Service  Provider to  carry out, the corresponding  Subproject.

prepare  a  Management  and  Results  Plan  and  submit  the same  to  the Borrower  and
the  pertinent  Participating  Province  for  their  approval  in  accordance  with  the
procedure  detailed  in the  Operational  Manual;

as part of the preparation  of the Management  and Results  Plan, carry  out a strategic
environmental  and  social assessment in accordance  to the provisions of the ESMF,
and incorporate  the results of said assessment  in the Management  and  Results Plan
in a manner acceptable  to the Bank;

in those  cases  in  which  a  WSS  Service  Provider  will  carry  out  a  Subproject,  as
referred  to  in  Section  I.C.2  (a)  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  carry  out  said
Subproject  in  accordance  with  the  pertinent  provisions  of this  Agreement  (as
applicable  to  said  Subproject,  including  Section  III  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement)  and the  Operational  Manual;

if applicable,  operate  and  maintain,  said  Subproject  in accordance  with the  terms
and  conditions  of the  pertinent  Operation  and  Maintenance  Agreement,  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency,  and  in  accordance  with  adequate  technical,  social  and
environmental  standards;  and

not  to  assign,  amend,  terminate,  abrogate,  repeal,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  the
Technical  Operation  Agreement  or any provision thereof unless previously agreed
by  the Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  and  the  Bank.

-18-

SCHEDULE  6

Amendments  to the Original Loan Agreement

The Borrower and the  Bank hereby  agree  to amend the Original  Loan  Agreement  as follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

The  Project title  "(Second  Norte  Grande  Water  Infrastructure  Project)"  in  the  cover page
is  hereby  replaced  with  the  title  "(Plan  Belgrano  - Water  Supply and  Sanitation  Services
Development  Project)".

Section  2.02 under Article  II is hereby amended  to read  in its entirety as set forth in Section
2.02 of Article  II  of this Agreement.

Any references  to the term  "MPF"  is  hereby replaced  with the term  "MIPWH".

Section  3.01  under  Article  3.01  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in
Section  3.01  of Article  II of this Agreement.

Section 5.01  under Article V is hereby amended to read  in its entirety as set forth in Section
5.01  of Article  II of this Agreement.

Schedule  1 is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  1 to  this
Agreement.

Section  I.C  of Schedule 2  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its entirety  as set forth  in  Section
I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Section  I.F.2  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in  Section  I.F.2  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

Section  I.F.3  is  hereby  added  to  Section  I.F  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in  Section
I.F.3  of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

Section  II.B of Schedule  2 is hereby  amended to  read  in  its entirety  as set forth  in Section
II.B  of this Agreement.

Section  III of Schedule  2  is hereby  amended  to  read  in  its entirety  as  set  forth  in  Section
III of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

The table  set forth in Section  IV.2 of Schedule 2  to the Loan Agreement  is hereby  amended
to  read  in its entirety  as follows:

-19-

Amount  of the  Loan  Percentage  of  Expenditures to

Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

174,601,477 

24,898,523 

100%

100%

Category 

(1)  Works under 
Subprojects

(2)  Goods,  works, 
consultants'  services,
Non-consultant,
Services,  Training  and
Operating  Costs under
Parts  B  and  C of the
Project

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

500,000 

(4)  Premia  for  Interest 
Rate  Caps  and Interest 
Rate  Collars

TOTAL AMOUNT 

200,000,000

Amount payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this Agreement
in  accordance  with  Section 2.07
(b)  of the General  Conditions
Amount due  under Section  2.07
(c)  of this Agreement

0 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

Schedule  4  is  hereby  amended  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this
Agreement.

Schedule  5  is added  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set forth  in  Schedules  5 to this  Agreement.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"; 

The definitions  of "Anti-Corruption  Guidelines";  "Environmental  and  Social Management
Manual"; 
"Participating  Provinces";
"Participation,  Transfer  and Maintenance  Agreement";  "Procurement  Plan"; "Resettlement
Policy Framework";  and "Subprojects"  in the corresponding  paragraphs  of Section I of the
Appendix  are  hereby  amended  to  read  in  their  entirety  as  set  forth  in  the  corresponding
paragraphs  of Section  I of the Appendix to  this Agreement.

The  definition  of  "Management  and  Results  Plan"  is  hereby  added  to  Section  I  of  the
Appendix  (in  its  corresponding  alphabetical  order)  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in
paragraph  10,  of  Section  I  of  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement  and  the  subsequent
paragraphs  renumbered  accordingly.

The  definition  of "MPF"  in paragraph  12  of Section  I of the Appendix  is hereby  deleted  in
its  entirety  and  the  definition  of  "MIPWH" 
its  corresponding
alphabetical  order)  to  Section  I  of the  Appendix  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in
paragraph  11  of Section  I of the Appendix to  this Agreement.

is  hereby  added  (in 

-20-

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

The definition  of "Norte  Grande  region"  in  paragraph  15  of Section  I of the  Appendix  is
hereby  deleted  in  its entirety  and  the  definition  of "Project  Area"  is  hereby  added  (in  its
corresponding  alphabetical  order) to  Section  I of the Appendix  to read  in  its entirety  as set
forth  in paragraph  22  of Section  I of the  Appendix to this Agreement.

The  definition  of "Operation  and  Maintenance  Agreement"  is  hereby  added  to  Section  I
of  the Appendix  (in its corresponding  alphabetical  order) to read  in  its entirety  as set forth
in  paragraph  17,  of  Section  I of  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement  and  the  subsequent
paragraphs  renumbered  accordingly.

The definition  of "Procurement  Regulations"  is hereby  added to Section  I of  the Appendix
(in  its corresponding  alphabetical  order) to  read  in its entirety  as set forth  in paragraph 24,
of Section  I of the  Appendix to this Agreement  and the subsequent  paragraphs  renumbered
accordingly.

The  definition  of  "Province"  is  hereby  added  to  Section  I of 
the  Appendix  (in  its
corresponding  alphabetical  order)  to  read  in  its  entirety  as  set  forth  in  paragraph  25,  of
Section  I of the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement  and  the  subsequent  paragraphs  renumbered
accordingly.

The definitions of "Consultant  Guidelines", "Procurement  Guidelines"  and  "ISO" set forth
in  Section  I of the  Appendix  are  hereby  deleted  in  their  entirety  and  the  subsequent
paragraphs  renumbered  accordingly.

-21-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

.

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"Annual  Operating  Plan" means any  of the  Borrower's  plan, referred  to in  Section I.F.3  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the
agreement  of the Bank.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines  on Preventing and Combating  Fraud
and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants", dated
October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011  and  as of July  1, 2016.

"Bank Safeguards  Policies" means  the Bank's operational  policies and procedures  set forth
in the  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10,  4.11,  4.12,  4.36
and  4.37,  as said  manual  is published under www.WorldBank.or/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Environmental  Management  Plans"  or  "EMPs"  means  any  of the  Borrower's  plans  or
safeguards  instruments,  acceptable  to  the Bank, referred  to  in  Section  I.E. 1 of Schedule  2
to  this Agreement,  setting  forth the  environmental/social  management  actions  applicable
to activities  to be carried  out under Subprojects.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF" means the  Borrower's
framework,  dated  January  2017,  (included  in  the  Operational  Manual),  disclosed  on  the
Borrower's  website  on  February  3, 2017  and  in the  Bank's  website  on February  1, 2017,
which  sets  forth,  inter alia: (a)  the  guidelines  for carrying  out  the  environmental/social
assessments  referred  to  in  Section  I.E.1  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement;  (b) the  generic
description  of the type  of environmental/social  impacts  which  may affect  Subprojects  and
actions to  mitigate negative  impacts that may occur as a  result of their implementation;  (c)
the  guidelines  to  be  followed  in  connection  with  the  finding  of cultural  property;  (d)  the
guidelines  to  be  followed  to  prevent  natural  habitat  conversion  or  degradation;  (e)  the
guidelines  for  public  consultation;  (f)  the  procedures  and  technical  specifications  to  be
followed  by  eligible  contractors  in  the  carrying  out  of  Subprojects;  (g)  the  Indigenous
Peoples  Planning  Framework;  and  (h)  the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework,  as  said
framework  may  be updated  and/or amended  from  time  to time  with  the  agreement  of the
Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
General Conditions  for  Loans",  dated March  12,  2012,  with the  modifications  set forth  in
Section  II of this Appendix.

"Indigenous  Peoples Plan"  or "IPP"  means any of the plans acceptable to the Bank, adopted
by  the  Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  and/or  the  pertinent  Participating  Province

-22-

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

when  applicable  as  set forth  in the  Operational  Manual,  all prepared  and  to  be  carried  out
following the  requirements  of the Indigenous  Peoples Planning  Framework.

"Indigenous  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or "IPPF"  means the  Borrower's  framework,
acceptable  to  the  Bank  (included  in  the  ESMF),  dated  January  2017,  disclosed  on  the
Borrower's website  on  February  3, 2017,  and  in the  Bank's website  on February  1, 2017,
setting forth the  indigenous  peoples  policy framework  applicable  to  all  the  activities to  be
carried  out under  the  Project  and  the  basis and  procedures  to  prepare  specific  indigenous
peoples'  plans or related  instruments during  Project  implementation.

"Management  and  Results  Plan"  means  Plan de  Gesti6n y Resultados, a  key  planning
instrument prepared by  a WSS  Service Provider,  setting forth,  inter alia, WSS  investments
(which include  Non-Project  Investments  and  Subprojects)  and  capacity  building  activities
envisioned to achieve  specific goals to expand  the provision of WSS  services  and  improve
their quality  and efficiency,  as said plan  may  be amended  from time  to time.

"MIPWH"  means  Ministerio del Interior, Obras Puiblicas y  Vivienda,  the  Borrower's
Ministry  of Interior,  Public Works and  Housing, or any  successor thereto  acceptable to  the
Bank.

"MoF"  means  Ministerio  de  Finanzas, the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance,  or  any
successor thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Municipality"  means  any of the  political subdivisions  of a Participating  Province.

"Non-Project 
Management  and  Results  Plan which  is not considered  to be part  of the  Project.

Investment"  means  any  WSS 

investment 

included 

in  an  approved

"Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  recurrent  expenditures,  based  on  an  annual  budget
previously  approved  by  the  Bank,  that  would  not  have  been  incurred  by  the  Borrower,
through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  absent  the  Project,  for  Project  administration  (including  office
rent),  operation  and  maintenance  of office  equipment,  non-durable  goods  and  salaries  for
non-professional  staff  assigned 
to  carry  out
administrative  (e.g.  secretarial)  responsibilities  under the  Project  (but excluding  any type
of civil  servant  salaries).

to  UCPyPFE  and  UCPyPFE-UEP 

"Operational  Manual"  means  the Borrower's  manual dated  February  20,  2017,  acceptable
to  the Bank, which  sets forth, inter alia: (a) the  criteria for selecting  any  investments  under
Subprojects;  (b)  the  eligibility  criteria  for  WSS  Service  Providers  to  participate  in  the
(c)  the  structures,  functions  and  responsibilities  of  UCPyPFE-UEP  under  the
Project; 
Project;  (d)  the  Environmental  and  Social  Management Framework;  (e)  the Project's chart
of accounts  and  internal  controls;  (f)  the  format  of:  (i)  the  unaudited  interim  financial
reports referred  to in Section  II.B.2 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement;  and  (ii)  the Financial
Statements;  (g)  the  terms  of reference  for  carrying  out  the  Project  audits  under  Section
II.B.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement;  (h)  the  Project performance  indicators  (including
the  results  framework);  and  (i) the  Project  disbursement  and  procurement  procedures,  as

-23-

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

said  manual  may  be  updated  and/or amended  from time to time with  the  agreement  of the
Bank.

"Operation  and  Maintenance  Agreement"  means any  agreement  or amendment between  a
Participating  Province  and  a  WSS  Service  Provider,  referred  to  in  Section  3(g)(ii)  of
Schedule  4 to  this Agreement.

"Original  Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for the Original  Project between the
Borrower  and  the Bank,  dated November  23,  2011  (Loan No  8032-AR).

"Original  Project"  means  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  the  Original  Loan
Agreement  (formerly  Second  Norte Grande  Water  Infrastructure  Project).

"Participating  Province"  means  any  of  the  following  Provinces:  Catamarca,  Chaco,
Corrientes,  Formosa, Jujuy,  Misiones,  Tucumdn,  Salta,  Santiago  del  Estero  and  La  Rioja
which  will participate  in the Project,  as well  as any other  Province  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Participation,  Transfer  and  Maintenance  Agreement"  means  any  of  the  agreements
referred  to  in  Section  I.C.1(a)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  as  the  same  may  be
amended from time  to time  with the  agreement of the  Bank.

"Project Area" means the area located within the territorial jurisdiction of the  Participating
Provinces.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the  Project,  dated
February  21,  2017  and  provided  for under  Section  IV of the  Procurement  Regulations,  as
the same  may be updated  from time  to time  in agreement  with the  Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means 
Borrowers  under Investment  Project Financing", dated  July  1, 2016.

the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for

"Province"  means  a  Borrower  political  subdivisions,  as  per  title  Two  of the  Borrower's
1994 Constitution.

"Resettlement"  means the impact  of an involuntary taking of land under the Project, which
taking  causes  affected  persons to  have  their:  (a)  standard of living  adversely  affected;  or
(b)  right, title  or  interest  in any  house,  land  (including  premises,  agricultural  and  grazing
land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset  acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or
permanently;  or  (c)  access  to  productive  assets  adversely  affected,  temporarily  or
permanently;  or (d)  business,  occupation,  work  or place  of residence  or  habitat  adversely
affected,  temporarily  or permanently.

27. 

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "RPF"  means  the  Borrower's  framework,  dated
January  30,  2017,  acceptable  to  the  Bank  (included  in  the  Environmental  and  Social
Management  Framework),  disclosed  on the  Borrower's  website  on February  3, 2017,  and
in the  Bank's website  on February  1, 2017,  which  sets  forth,  inter alia, the principles  and

-24-

objectives  governing  Resettlement  preparation  and  implementation,  and  a  description  of
the  applicable  legal framework of the Borrower  and of each Participating  Province  and the
process  for preparing and  approving  resettlement  plans under  Section  I.E.2  of Schedule  2
to this Agreement.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  latest of the  two  dates  on which  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
signed the  Loan  Agreement.

"Subproject"  means  any  of  the  works  under  Part  A  of  the  Project  included  under  an
approved  Management  and  Results  Plan  which  meets  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual  to  be  carried  out  under  said  Part  of the  Project  and  financed  by  the
Loan.

"UCPyPFE" or "Unidad de Coordinaci6n de Programas y Proyectos con Financiamiento
Externo" means the MIPWH's Unit for Coordination  of Externally  Financed Programs and
Projects  established  within  MIPWH  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  former  Ministry  of
Infrastructure  and  Housing's  Resolution  No.  165/2000,  dated  June  21,  2010,  as amended
by  the  Borrower's  Executive  Decree  No.  1,142/2003  and  MIPWH's  Resolution  No.  109-
E/2016,  or any  successor  thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"UCPyPFE-UEP" means the  Project  executing  unit established  within the  UCPyPFE  and
referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  or  any  successor  thereto
acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Technical  Operation  Agreement"  means  any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in  Section
I.C.2(a) of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Training"  means  expenditures  (other  than those  for  consulting  services)  incurred  by  the
Borrower,  through  UCPyPFE-UEP,  as  approved  by the  Bank  on  the  basis  of an  annual
budget acceptable  to the  Bank, to finance  reasonable  transportation  costs  and per  diem of
trainees  and trainers (if applicable),  training registration  fees, training materials,  and rental
of training facilities  and  equipment  under the  Project.

"WSS" means water  supply and  sanitation  services.

"WSS  Service  Provider"  means  a  public  (including  a  Municipality  and/or  a  group  of
Municipalities)  or  private  provider  of  water  supply  and  sanitation  services  within  the
territorial jurisdiction  of a Participating  Province,  all of which meet the criteria  set forth in
the  Operational  Manual  (as  defined above)  for  participating  in the  Project.

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

Section H. 

Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are  hereby  modified  as  follows:

1. 

In the  Table of Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are  modified to  reflect the  modifications  set forth in the  paragraphs  below.

-25-

2. 

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at the  rate

(a) 
specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

(b) 
The Borrower  shall pay the  Bank a commitment charge  on  the Unwithdrawn  Loan
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement to  the respective dates  on which amounts  are  withdrawn  by  the Borrower  from
the  Loan Account or  cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually
in  arrears on each Payment  Date."

In  the  Appendix, Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified, as necessary, to  reflect the  modification  set forth  in paragraph  2 above.

The  Appendix  is modified  by inserting  a new paragraph  19  and  a new  paragraph  88 with
the following definitions of "Commitment Charge"  and "Signature Date", respectively, and
renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

Signature  Date"  means the  latest of the  two  dates on  which the  Borrower  and the

"88. 
Bank  signed the  Loan Agreement."

In the  renumbered  paragraph  49 (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix, the  definition
of "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified by replacing the reference to  Section 3.01  with Section 3.01
(a).

In the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix, the  definition
of the  term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified to  read  as follows:

"68. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including (but not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for  a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar,  and  any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by the
Borrower."

7. 

In the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix, the  definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and

-26-

Commitment Charge  are"  after the word  "interest".

8. 

Any  reference  to  "the  date  of  the  Loan  Agreement"  shall  be  modified  with  the  term
"Signature  Date".

