OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8646-PK

Loan Agreement

(Additional  Financing for the Tarbela  Fourth Extension  Hydropower Project)

ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

vkA 

,  1:

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

cU-v1 

Agreement  dated 

, between  the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
%  9 
OF PAKISTAN  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the purpose of providing additional  financing  for activities  related
to  the Original Project (as defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement). The  Borrower and the Bank
hereby  agree as follows:

-

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in  this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - LOAN

2.01. 

in 

ihis  Agreement, 

The Bank  agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and  conditions  set forth or referred
to 
three  hundred  and  ninety  million
Dollars ($390,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through a
Currency  Conversion in accordance  with the provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule  1 to  this  Agreement
("Project").

amount  of 

the 

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of

Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

(0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by the  Borrower shall  be equal to  one quarter  of one percent

2.04. 

(a) The  Commitment Charge  payable by  the Borrower shall be equal to  one quarter of one
percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.  (b)  The  Bank  shall,  on
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Loan Account  on  each of the  Payment  Dates,
and pay to itself the amount required  to pay the Commitment Charge  During Construction
accrued  and  payable  as  at  such  date,  subject  to  the limit  specified  in  Category  10  of the
table  set forth in Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.05.  The interest payable by the Borrower  for each Interest  Period  shall be at  a rate  equal to the
Reference  Rate  for the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;  provided,  that  upon  a
Conversion  of all  or any portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan, the interest  payable
by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such  amount  shall  be  determined  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if any  amount  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains
unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty  days,  then  the

-2-

interest payable  by the Borrower shall  instead  be calculated  as provided in  Section 3.02  (e)
of the General  Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment  Dates are June  15  and December  15  in each year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization

schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in order  to  facilitate  prudent  debt  management:  (i)  a  change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn, to  an Approved Currency;  (ii)  a change  of the  interest
rate basis applicable  to:  (A)  all or any portion of the principal amount  of the Loan
withdrawn  and  outstanding from a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed Rate,  or vice versa; or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread,  or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a Variable  Spread  to  a Variable  Rate
based  on a Fixed  Spread;  and (iii)  the  setting of limits on the Variable  Rate or the
Reference  Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount  of the Loan
withdrawn and  outstanding by the  establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar on the Variable  Rate or the  Reference  Rate.

(b) 

(c) 

Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a)  of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article IV
of the  General  Conditions  and of the Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following the  Execution  Date  for  an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate
Collar  for which  the Borrower  has  requested  that the premium  be  paid  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the  Borrower, withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the General  Conditions up to  the
amount  allocated  from time  to time  for the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the Project.  To this  end,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  (except  Part  B.3)  to be carried  out by WAPDA  and Part
B.3  of  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  NTDC,  in  each  case  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions  and their Respective  Project  Agreement.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the provisions  of Section  3.01  of this Agreement,  and except  as
the Borrower and the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower  shall ensure that the Project
is carried out  in accordance  with the  provisions of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

The  WAPDA  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so  as  to affect  materially  and  adversely WAPDA's  ability to perform  any
of its obligations  under  its Respective  Project Agreement.

The  NTDC  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or
waived  so  as to affect  materially and  adversely  NTDC's  ability to perform any  of
its obligations under  its Respective  Project Agreement.

An  event  of suspension  has  occurred  under  the  Co-financing  Agreement  and  is
continuing  after its cure period, if any, under the Co-financing  Agreement,  or after
the  Co-financier's  notice  to  the  Borrower  that  such  event  of  suspension  has
occurred,  if there is  no cure period.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  any  of the
events  specified  in  Section 4.01  of this  Agreement  occurs  and  such event  continues  for  a
period of at least  60 days after written notice has been served by the Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Conditions of Effectiveness  consists of the following:

Each  of the  Subsidiary  Agreements  has been  executed  on behalf of the  Borrower
and the relevant  Project Implementing  Entities;

The Co-financing  Agreement  has been  signed in  form and substance acceptable  to
the  Bank  and the  Co-financier  has  confirmed  in writing that the  conditions  for a
first disbursement  under the  Co-financing  Agreement  have been  satisfied,  except
those  related to the effectiveness  of this Agreement.

5.02.  The Additional  Legal Matter consists of the  following, namely, that each of the  Subsidiary
Agreements  has been  duly authorized  or ratified  by the Borrower  and the relevant  Project
Implementing  Entities and  is  legally  binding upon  the Borrower  and  the relevant Project
Implementing  Entities  in accordance  with its terms.

5.03.  The Effectiveness  Deadline is the date ninety (90)  days  after the date  of this Agreement.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  the  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,
Deputy  Secretary  or Section  Officer  of the Economic  Affairs  Division of the  Ministry  of
Finance, Revenue,  Economic Affairs,  Statistics  and Privatization, each  such person acting
individually.

6.02.  The Borrower's  Address is:

Economic Affairs  Division
Ministry  of Finance,  Revenue, Economic  Affairs,  Statistics and  Privatization
Islamabad
Pakistan

Facsimile: 

+92-51-921-8976

6.03.  The  Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America

Facsimile: 

+1-202-477-6391

AGREED at 

written.

as of the day and  year first above

ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Auth 

ed Representative

Name:

Title:

Name:

Title:

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  facilitate  a  sustainable  expansion  of the  Borrower's

electricity  generation  capacity.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

A. 

Construction of Power Houses  and  Modification to  Tunnels

Construction  of a  power house  for the  existing Tarbela  Dam Tunnel  5 and  a  penstock  to
connect Tunnel  5 to the power units, as well as modification to  this tunnel by constructing
a  new raised  intake.

B. 

Installation of Power Units and Ancillary  Equipment

Provision  and  installation  of  turbines,  generators,  transformers  and  ancillary
electromechanical  equipment  for Tunnel 5.

Provision  and  installation  of  transformers  and  equipment  for  the  switchyard  at
Tunnel  5 to  connect  generation  to the transmission  line.

Construction  of a  new  transmission  line  from Tarbela  Dam to the  national  grid,
including  management  and  implementation  of  safeguards  measures  for  the
purpose.

C. 

Implementation  of Safeguards  Measures  and Dam Monitoring and  Surveillance

Implementation  of the  social  action  plans  contained  in the Safeguard  Documents,
including  establishment  of commissions  for  the  settlement  of legacy  claims,  the
recruitment  of social  organizers  and  legal  professionals  and  settlement  of such
claims.

Implementation  of  the  environmental  management  plans  contained 
in  the
fisheries
Safeguard  Documents, 
management,  and  carrying  out  of related  special  studies  as needed,  and  capacity
building  of Project  staff.

tree  planting, 

landscaping, 

including 

Strengthening  of  the  dam  safety  monitoring  system  and  provision  of  related
equipment  for  the  Tarbela  Dam,  including  upgrading  of  dam  monitoring
instrumentation  such  as  piezometers  and  extensometers,  installation  of automatic
data  acquisition and logging systems and monitoring system in relation to the delta
and  sediment  transport,  and  carrying  out  of  research  in  relation  particularly  to
sediment management  and delta  movements.

1. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-6-

D. 

Construction  Supervision, Implementation,  and Monitoring  and Evaluation

Provision  of  expert  services  to  assist  in:  (a)  the  construction  supervision  and
contract  management;  and  (b)  Project  implementation,  including  procurement,
contract  management,  financial  management,  quality  control,  and  preparation  of
bidding documents  and designs.

Provision  of consulting  services  to  assist  in  Project  monitoring  and  evaluation,
including  implementation  of  environmental  and  social  action  plans  and  other
safeguards  measures.

E. 

Project Management,  Capacity  Building, Pilots, and  Studies

Provisions of expert  services  to  assist in  Project  management  activities, including
audits.

(a)  Capacity  building  of  the  Project 
in  Project
implementation  and  dam  and  transmission  line  operation  and  maintenance;
(b)  provision  of related  technical  assistance to Project Implementing  Entities;  and
(c)  independent  review  of the  design,  operation  and maintenance  aspects  of the
Project,  particularly  safety  and early  warning  measures, all through  the provision
of expert  services  to the Project  Implementing  Entities.

Implementing  Entities 

Design  and  installation  of  a  pilot  for  floating  solar  plant  in  the  Tarbela  Dam
reservoir  subject  to the  outcome  of the feasibility,  environmental,  social and  other
preparatory  studies.

(a)  Carrying out  of strategic  studies  in the  hydropower sector  and (b) preparation
of future hydropower projects.

I. 

2. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Institutional and Contractual Arrangements.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  the  institutional  and  contractual  arrangement  described  in  this
Section L.A  throughout  the period  of implementation  of the  Project:

1. 

Ministry  of Water and Power

The  Borrower,  through MWP,  shall  provide  policy  and  strategic  direction  to  the  Project
Implementing  Entities  for the carrying out of the Project.

Project steering  committee

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  a  project  steering  committee  ("PSC"),  chaired  by  the
Secretary  of  MWP,  comprised  of  the  Borrower's  Secretaries  of  Planning,  Finance,
Economic  Affairs  Division; the Chairman  of WAPDA;  the Managing  Directors  of NTDC
and the National  Highway  Authority,  the Chief Secretary  and Additional  Chief Secretary
(Development)  of Khyber  Pakhtunkhwa;  the  Commissioner  of Haripur  and  Rawalpindi
Divisions, the  Deputy Commissioner of Haripur and Attock and associated  districts of the
Borrower;  and the Project Director WAPDA,  who  shall  serve as the PSC's secretary.

(b) 

The  PSC  shall provide  planning  and strategic  guidance  for the Project  implementation,  as
well  as facilitate  inter-agency coordination.

3. 

Actions  from the Borrower

The Borrower shall:

take  all measures  required  from  its  part  to  ensure  that  the Project  Implementing  Entities
comply  with their obligations  set out  or referred  to in  their respective  Project  Agreement
and  Subsidiary Agreement;

ensure  that  the Project is  completed  in  a manner  consistent  with  the requirements  of this
Agreement,  irrespective  of the sources  of the  financing;  and

(c) 

ensure  that:

(i) 

no later than tenth (10)  months the Effective Date, the Escrow  Account Agreement,
shall be amended,  in order to  (A)  provide that CPPAG shall  maintain a balance  in
the Escrow  Account  (as  defined in the Escrow Account  Agreement) equivalent  to
a period  of billing  by  WAPDA  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  not  to  exceed  two  (2)
months  (the  "Escrow  Amount");  and  (B)  to  extend  its  term to  a  date  not  earlier
than the Closing  Date;  and

2. 

(a) 

(a) 

(b) 

-8-

(ii) 

throughout  the  implementation  of the Project,  the  Escrow  Amount  is maintained
(including through  replenishment  if all or part of the Escrow Amount  is disbursed
in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Account Agreement  or otherwise).

Subsidiary Agreements

To  facilitate  WAPDA's  carrying  out  of its  Respective  Part  of the  Project,  the  Borrower
shall  make  part  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  available  to  WAPDA  under  a  subsidiary
agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  WAPDA,  under  terms  and  conditions  agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank  (the "WAPDA  Subsidiary  Agreement").

To facilitate the carrying out  of its Respective Part of the  Project, the Borrower shall make
part of the proceeds  of the Loan available to NTDC under  a tripartite subsidiary  agreement
between the  Borrower, NTDC  and WAPDA (acting as administrator of the Loan proceeds
on-lent to NTDC),  under terms  and conditions  agreed between  the Borrower and the Bank
(the "NTDC  Subsidiary Agreement").

The terms and conditions of each of the Subsidiary Agreements shall include the following:

the right  of the Project Implementing  Entity to withdraw  the proceeds of the Loan allocated
to its Respective Part of the Project on behalf of the Borrower.  The proceeds  so withdrawn
shall  be considered  to  be withdrawn  by the Borrower;

the  obligation  of the Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (i) pay  to  the  Borrower  an  amount
equal  to the  Front-end  Fee  and  the  Commitment  Charge,  each  determined  by  the  Bank
pursuant  to  Section  2.03  and  2.04  of  this  Agreement  and  Section  3.01  of  the  General
Conditions,  in  each case on the pro-rata  portion of Loan  allocated to  its Respective  Part of
the Project and on-lent under the Respective  Subsidiary Agreement;  (ii) 'repay the proceeds
of  the  Loan  withdrawn  under  the  Respective  Subsidiary  Agreement  over  the  period
applicable to the Borrower pursuant to  Section 2.07 of, and  Schedule 3  to, this Agreement;
(iii)  repay the proceeds  of the Loan on-lent  under its Respective  Subsidiary Agreement  in
Pakistani  Rupees;  and  (iv) pay an  interest  on the principal  amount  of the  proceeds  of the
Loan on-lent  under  its Respective  Subsidiary  Agreement  and withdrawn  and  outstanding
from time to time at the rate agreed between the Borrower, the Project Implementing  Entity
and  acceptable  to  the  Bank  as  per  the  re-lending  policies  of the Borrower,  which  rates
(other  than  those  charged  in  case  of default)  shall  in  no  case  exceed  fifteen  per  centum
(15%)  per annum  unless otherwise  agreed between  the Borrower and  the Bank;

the Borrower's  and  Project  Implementing  Entities'  understandings  and  arrangements  for
the flow of funds, including disbursement  protocols, supporting evidence and any reporting
requirements therefor;

the obligation  of the Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry out  the  Project  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines  applicable  to  recipients  of  loan
proceeds  other than the Borrower;

the  obligation  of the Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance
with the provisions of the Safeguard Documents, and without any right or authority, except

B. 

1 .

2. 

3. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

-9-

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

4. 

5. 

as the Bank shall  otherwise agree in writing, to assign, amend, abrogate,  or waive, or permit
to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or  waived,  the  aforementioned,  or  any  provision
thereof;

the obligation of the Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (i) maintain  a financial  management
system and prepare  financial statements  in accordance with consistently applied  accounting
standards  satisfactory to the Bank, both in a  manner  adequate  to reflect the operations  and
financial condition of the Project Implementing  Entity, including the operations, resources,
and  expenditures  related  to  the  Project;  and  (ii)  have  such  statements  audited  by
independent  auditors  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  consistently  applied
auditing  standards  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and furnish  such  audited  financial  statements
to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  II.B.3  of the
Schedule  to  the  Respective  Project  Agreement  and make  them  publicly  available  in  a
timely fashion  and in a manner satisfactory  to the Bank; and

the  obligation of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to carry  out procurement  of the goods,
works, and consultants'  services required  for the Project  in accordance with the provisions
of Section  m  of this  Schedule  2,  as  well  as  the  Attachment  to  such  Schedule,  as  said
provisions  may  be amended  from time  to time  and  further elaborated  in the  Procurement
Plan.

the Borrower's  right  to suspend or terminate the Respective  Subsidiary Agreement  and/or
accelerate  the  recovery  of any  outstanding  amounts  withdrawn  thereunder,  upon:  (i) the
Project  Implementing  Entity's  failure  to  perform  its  obligations  under  its  Respective
Subsidiary  Agreement  and/or  its  Respective  Project  Agreement;  or  (ii)  the  Bank's
exercising  any  of the  remedies  under  Article  VI  of the  General  Conditions,  and/or  the
Procurement  Guidelines, 
the  Anti-corruption
Guidelines.

the  Consultants  Guidelines  and/or 

In  addition to  and notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the  NTDC  Subsidiary Agreement  shall
include  a  provision  for -the appointment  of WAPDA  by  NTDC  as  administrator  of the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  on-lent  to  NTDC,  including  WAPDA's  right  to  withdraw  the
proceeds  of the Loan  on behalf of the Borrower and NTDC.

The Borrower shall  exercise  its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements  in  such manner as
to protect the  interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes  of the
Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or waive  either  of the  Subsidiary  Agreements  or  any  of their  provisions,  nor
consent  to  any  assignment,  amendment,  abrogation  or  waiver  by  any  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entities.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The Borrower shall  ensure  that the Project is carried out in accordance  with the provisions
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

-10-

D. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Safeguards.

The Borrower  shall cause  each of the Project Implementing  Entities to  ensure that all terms
of reference  for  any  technical  assistance  or  studies  carried  out  under  the  Project  are
consistent with, and pay due attention to, the Bank Policies,  as well  as the Borrower's own
laws relating to  the environment  and social  aspects  relevant to  the Project.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  of the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  carry  out  all
activities  of its  Respective  Part  of the  Project  with  due  regard  to  health-safety,  social
(including labor),  cultural  and  environmental  principles,  practices  and  standards  reflected
in the  Safeguard  Documents,  and  in each  case  irrespective  of the source  of financing  for
the particular Project  activity.

The Borrower  shall  ensure, and cause each of the Project Implementing  Entities  to ensure,
that prior  to commencing any civil  works under the Project  that require land taking and the
resettlement  of Displaced  Persons,  all  resettlement  measures  set  forth  in  the  applicable
Safeguard  Documents  shall  have  been  fully  executed,  including  the  full  payment  of
compensation  prior to  displacement  and/or  the  provision  of relocation  assistance  to  all
Displaced Persons, as per the entitlements provided in the applicable Safeguard Documents
and irrespective  of the source of financing  for such activity.

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing  and  subject  to  compliance  with
applicable consultation  and public disclosure requirements  of the Bank, the  Borrower shall
not  abrogate,  amend,  repeal,  suspend  or  waive  any  provisions  of any  of the  Safeguard
Documents, nor shall it permit any entity participating  in the implementation of the Project
to do so.

Without limitation upon its other reporting  obligations under this Agreeient, the Borrower
shall, or shall cause each of the Project Implementing  Entities to, regularly collect, compile
and submit to  the Bank, on  a semi-annual  basis, reports  on the  status of compliance  with
the Safeguard Documents,  irrespective  of the  source  of financing of the  Project  activities,
in  furtherance  of  the  Safeguard  Documents;
giving  details  of:  (a) measures  taken 
(b)  conditions, 
the  smooth
implementation of the Safeguard  Documents;  and  (c)  remedial measures taken or required
to be taken to  address  such conditions.

if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten 

interfere  with 

to 

The  Borrower  shall,  or  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to,  strengthen,
maintain  and  continue  operating  throughout  the  period  of  Project  implementation,  the
grievance  redress  mechanism  (the  "GRM")  established  for  the  Original  Project  for the
handling  of environment-  and  social-  (including  labor-)  related  stakeholder  complaints
which may arise  out of the implementation  of the  Project  activities.

In  the  event  that  any  provision  of  the  Safeguard  Documents  shall  conflict  with  any
provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail (unless otherwise
expressly  agreed  by the Bank  in  writing,  and  in  any  case  subject  to  compliance  with the
Bank Policies).

-11-

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

Project Reports  and Reviews

A. 

1. 

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  monitor  and
evaluate  the progress  of its  Respective Part  of the Project  and  prepare Project  Reports  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.08 of the General  Conditions  and on the  basis
of indicators  acceptable to  the Bank.  Each Project Report shall  cover the period of one  (1)
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than  forty-five (45)  days after
the  end  of the period  covered by  such report.

2. 

Semi-Annual  Reviews

The  Borrower  shall  review  jointly  with the  Bank  and  each  of the Project  Implementing
Entities,  no  later than  one (1)  month  after  the submission  of every  second  Project Report
to  the  Bank,  such  report  and  the  one  preceding,  and  thereafter  cause  each of the Project
Implementing  Entities  to  take  all  measures  required  to  ensure  the efficient  completion  of
the  Project  and  the  achievement  of the  objective  thereof, based  on  the conclusions  and
recommendations  of such reports  and  the Bank's  views  on the matter.

3. 

Annual Reviews

The  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

carry  out jointly with the Bank  and each of the Project  Implementing  Entities, not
later than October 31  in each year, an  annual review  to  assess the status  of Project
implementation,  as  measured  against  the  performance  indicators  referred  to  in
Section  II.A.1  above.  Such  review  shall  include  an  assessment  of the  following:
(i)  overall  progress  in  implementation;  (ii)  results  of monitoring  and  evaluation
activities;  (iii) progress  on  procurement  and  disbursement;  (iv)  progress  on
implementation  of safeguards  measures;  (v) implementation  arrangements;  and
(vi)  need to make  any adjustments to the  Project  and reallocate  funds  to  improve
performance,  if any. The  annual review after three years of Project  implementation
shall be considered  as  the mid-term review;

cause  each  of the  Project  Implementing  Entities  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank,  at  least  one (1)  month  before  such  review,  a  report,  in
scope  and  detail  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  integrating  the  results  of  the
monitoring  and  evaluation  activities  performed  pursuant  to  Section  II.A. 1 above,
on  the  progress  achieved  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  during  the  period
preceding  the  date  of such  report  and  setting  out  the  measures  recommended  to
ensure the efficient  carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective
thereof during the period  following  such date;  and

(c) 

review  jointly  with  the  Bank  and  each  of the  Project  Implementing  Entities  the
report  referred  to  in paragraph  (b)  of this Part  3  and  thereafter  cause  each  of the

-12-

Project Implementing  Entities to  take all measures  required to  ensure the  efficient
completion  of the Project and  the  achievement  of the  objective  thereof, based  on
the conclusions  and recommendations  of such  report and  the Bank's views  on the
matter.

Financial Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower shall maintain  or cause to  be maintained  a financial  management  system  in
accordance  with the provisions  of Section  5.09  of the General  Conditions.

Without  limitation on  the provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  the  Borrower  shall  cause
each of the Project Implementing  Entities to prepare  and furnish to the Bank, as part of the
Project Report,  interim unaudited  financial  reports  for the Project covering  the quarter,  in
form and substance  satisfactory to the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  of the Project Implementing  Entities to have  its  financial
statements  for its Respective  Part of the Project (collectively, the "Financial  Statements")
audited  in accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.09  (b) of the  General  Conditions.
Each  audit  of the  Financial  Statements  shall  cover  the  period  of one  fiscal  year  of the
Project  Implementing  Entities,  commencing  with  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  first
withdrawal  was  made.  The  audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be
furnished  to the Bank not  later than six  (6)  months after the end  of such period.

Section m. 

Procurement

General

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  non-consulting
services  required  for the Project  and to  be financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  shall
be procured  in accordance  with the requirements  set  forth or referred  to in  Section I of the
Procurement  Guidelines,  and with the provisions  of this Section.

Consultants'  Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the
requirements  set forth or referred to in  Sections I  and IV of the  Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The  capitalized  terms  used  below  in  this  Section  to  describe  particular
procurement  methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to  the
corresponding  method  described  in  Sections  II and  III  of the Procurement  Guidelines,  or
Sections II, 111,  IV  and V of the Consultant  Guidelines,  as the case  may be.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works and Non-consulting  Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph  2 below,
goods,  works  and  non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under contracts  awarded on
the basis of International  Competitive Bidding  procedures.

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

-13-

2. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

Other Methods  of Procurement of Goods,  Works  and Non-consulting  Services.  The
following  methods,  other  than  International  Competitive  Bidding,  may  be  used  for
procurement  of goods,  works and  non-consulting  services  for those contracts  specified  in
the  Procurement  Plan:  (a)  National  Competitive  Bidding,  subject  to  the  additional
provisions  set  forth  in  the  Attachment  to  this  Schedule;  (b)  Shopping;  and  (c)  Direct
Contracting.

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services

Quality- and Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as otherwise provided  in paragraph 2  below,
consultants'  services  shall be procured  under contracts  awarded on the basis of Quality and
Cost-based Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services.  The following methods, other
than  Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection,  may  be  used  for  procurement  of  consultants'
services  for those contracts which are specified  in the Procurement  Plan: (a)  Quality-based
Selection;  (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (c)  Least Cost Selection;  (d)  Selection based
on  Consultants'  Qualifications; 
(e)  Single-source  Selection  of  consulting  firms;
(f)  Procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  5.2  and  5.3  of the  Consultant  Guidelines  for  the
Selection  of Individual Consultants;  and  (g)  Single-source  procedures  for  the Selection  of
Individual Consultants.

D. 

Review  by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth those contracts  which  shall  be subject to  the Bank's
Prior Review.  All  other contracts  shall be  subject to Post Review  by the Bank.

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in  accordance  with the provisions
of Article II of the General  Conditions, this  Section, and such additional instructions as  the
Bank  shall  specify  by notice  to  the Borrower  (including the "World  Bank Disbursement
Guidelines  for Projects"  dated  May 2006,  as revised from time  to time by the Bank and  as
made  applicable  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  such  instructions),  to  finance  Eligible
Expenditures  as set forth in the  table in  paragraph  2 below.

The  following table specifies  the categories  of Eligible  Expenditures that may be  financed
out of the proceeds  of the Loan ("Category"),  the allocation  of the amounts of the Loan  to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed  for Eligible Expenditures
in  each Category.

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1) Works  for Part  A of the 
Project

100,000,000 

-14-

120,000,000 

48,000,000 

2,000,000 

28,000,000 

40,000,000 

12,000,000 

(2)  Goods  and  works 
Parts B.1 
Project

for 
and  B.2  of  the

(3)  Goods  and  works  for 
Parts B.3  of the Project

(4)  Land  and 
Involuntary 
Resettlement  Compensation
for  Part B.3  and  C.1  of  the
Project

(5)  Goods and  works for Parts 
C,  D, and E of the Project

(6)  Consultants'  services 
(including  for audits)  for the
Project

(7)  Training and Incremental 
Operating  Costs  for the
Project

36%

36%

80%

100%

100%

100%

100%

(8)  Front-end  Fee 

975,000 

(9)  Interest  During 
Construction 

27,000,000 

(10)  Commitment  Charge 
during Construction 

3,500,000 

Amount payable pursuant  to
Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

Amount payable pursuant  to
Section 2.07  (c)  of the
General  Conditions  during
the Construction Period

Amounts payable pursuant  to
Section 2.04(a) of this
Agreement,  in accordance
with Section  2.04(b) of this
Agreement, during  the
Construction Period.

-15-

0 

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
(11) 
Interest  Rate Collar premium 

Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.08(c)  of this
Agreement

(12)  Unallocated 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

8,525,000

390,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall be made  for
payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount not to  exceed  $30,000,000  equivalent  may be made for payments  made
prior to this date  but on or after January  1, 2016  for Eligible Expenditures.

2. 

The  Closing Date is June 30,  2022.

-16-

ATTACHIEMENT  TO SCHEDULE  2

National Competitive  Bidding;  Additional  Provisions

The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods, works, and non-consulting services
under contracts  awarded  on the  basis of National  Competitive Bidding shall  be those  set out in  the
Borrower's applicable rules,  with the following additional  requirements  set forth below in order to
ensure  economy,  efficiency,  transparency  and broad  consistency with  the provisions of Section  I
of the  Procurement  Guidelines,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3.3  of said  Guidelines.  In  the  event  of a
conflict  between  the Borrower's  procedures  and the  additional  provisions  set out below, the  latter
shall  govern.

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii) 

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

(xii) 

(xiii) 

Invitations  to  bid shall be advertised  in  at  least one  (1) national  newspaper  with a
wide  circulation,  at  least thirty  (30)  days  prior to the deadline  for the  submission
of bids.

Bid documents shall be made available,  by mail or in person, to all who are willing
to pay the required fee.

Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no preference of any kind
shall be given to  national  bidders in the bidding process.

Bidding  shall  not be restricted  to pre-registered  firms.

Qualification  criteria  shall be stated  in the bidding  documents.

Bids shall be opened  in public,  immediately  after the deadline  for the  submission
of bids.

Single bids  shall also be evaluated.

Bids  shall  not  be  rejected  merely  on  the  basis  of a  comparison  with  an official
estimate without the prior written agreement  of the Bank.

Before  rejecting  all  bids  and  soliciting  new  bids,  the  Bank's  prior  written
agreement  shall be obtained.

Contracts  shall  not be awarded  on the basis of nationally  negotiated  rates.

Bids shall  be solicited and works  contracts  awarded on the basis  of unit prices and
not on the basis  of composite  schedule  of rates.

Contracts  shall  be awarded to  the  lowest evaluated  and qualified bidder.

Post-bidding  negotiations  shall  not  be  allowed  with the  lowest  evaluated  or  any
other bidder.

-17-

(xiv) 

(xv) 

(xvi) 

(xvii) 

(xviii) 

Draft contracts  shall  be  reviewed  by  the  Bank  in accordance  with  Prior  Review
procedures.

A  firm declared  ineligible by the Bank,  based on a determination by the Bank that
the  firm  has  engaged  in  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive,  coercive,  or obstructive
practices  in  competing  for  or  executing  a  Bank-financed  contract,  shall  be
ineligible  to  be  awarded  a  Bank-financed  contract  during  the  period  of  time
determined by  the Bank.

Each  contract  financed  from  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  provide  that  the
suppliers,  contractors,  and  subcontractors  shall  permit the Bank,  at  its request,  to
inspect  their accounts  and  records  relating to  the  performance  of the contract  and
to have said accounts  and records  audited  by auditors  appointed  by the Bank.  The
deliberate  and  material  violation  by  the  supplier, contractor,  or subcontractor  of
such provision  may amount to an obstructive  practice.

Borrower-owned  enterprises  shall  be  eligible  to bid only if they can  establish that
they  are  legally  and  financially  autonomous,  operate  under  commercial  law,  and
are not a  dependent  agency  of the Borrower.

The  Bank shall  declare  a  firm  ineligible, either  indefinitely  or for a  stated period,
to be awarded  a contract financed by the Bank  if it at  any time determines  that the
firm  has,  directly  or through  an  agent,  engaged  in  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive,
coercive,  or obstructive practices  in competing for or executing a contract  financed
by the Bank.

-18-

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

1. 

The following table sets  forth the Principal Payment  Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal  Payment  Date, the principal  amount  of the  Loan repayable by  the Borrower on
(a)
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying: 
Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount  to be adjusted, as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment  Date 

December  15,  2022 
June  15,  2023 
December  15,  2023 
June  15,  2024 
December  15, 2024 
June 15,  2025 
December  15,  2025 
June  15,  2026 
December  15, 2026 
June  15,  2027 
December  15,  2027 
June 15,  2028 
December  15,  2028 
June  15,  2029 
December  15,  2029 
June 15,  2030 
December  15,  2030 
June  15,  2031 
December  15,  2031 
June 15,  2032 
December  15,  2032 
June  15,  2033 
December  15,  2033 
January  15,  2034 
December 15,  2034 
June 15,  2035 
December  15,  2035 
June  15,  2036 

Installment Share
(Expressed as a  Percentage)
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
1.75%
1.75%
1.75%
1.75%.
3%
3.5%
4%
4%
4%
-/4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
5%
5%
5%
5%
5.5%
5.5%
6%
6%

-19-

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date shall be  determined as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment Date, the Borrower shall  repay the Withdrawn  Loan Balance as
of such date  in accordance  with paragraph  1 of this Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after the date  of such withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by the Bank  by multiplying  the amount of each such withdrawal  by a
fraction,  the numerator  of which  is the original  Installment  Share specified in the
table  in  paragraph  I of this  Schedule  for said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or after such
date,  such amounts  repayable  to be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment Date  shall,  for  the purposes  solely of calculating  the principal  amounts
payable  on any Principal  Payment  Date, be  treated  as withdrawn  and  outstanding
on the second Principal  Payment  Date  following the date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date following the date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a) of this  paragraph,  if at  any
time the Bank adopts  a  due date  billing system under which invoices  are issued on
or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing  system.

4. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I and 2  of this  Schedule,  upon a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved  Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date occurring during the  Conversion Period, shall be determined  by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency payable  by  the Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange  rate component  of the Screen Rate.

5. 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this  Schedule shall  apply separately to the amount denominated  in each  Loan
Currency,  so as to  produce  a separate  amortization  schedule  for  each  such amount.

-20-

APPENDIX

Section I. 

Definitions

"AIIB"  means Asian  Infrastructure Investment  Bank.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

"Annual  Work  Plan  and  Budget"  has  the  meaning  ascribed  to  in  in  Section  I.C  of  the
Schedule  to the  Respective  Project Agreements.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines  on Preventing  and Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by IBRD  Loans and  IDA Credits  and Grants",  dated
October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011.

"Bank Policies"  means,  collectively,  but  only  to  the extent  that  they are  applicable  to  the
Project  activities,  the  operational  policies  and  procedures  OP/BP  4.01  (Environmental
Assessment), OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP/BP 4.07 (Water Resources Management),
OP/BP 4.09  (Pest Management),  OP/BP  4.10  (Indigenous Peoples),  OP/BP 4.11  (Physical
Cultural  Resources),  OP/BP  4.12  (Involuntary  Resettlement),  OP/BP  4.36  (Forests),  and
OP/BP 4.37  (Safety  of Dams)  contained  in  the Bank's  Operational  Manual  which can  be
found on the Bank's  website  at www.worldbank.org.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Claim  Settlement  Commission"  has  the  meaning  ascribed  to  it  in  the  Original  Loan
Agreement,  and referred  to  in  Section I.A.2 of the WAPDA  Project Agreement.

"Co-financier"  means AIIB.

"Co-financing"  means,  for  purposes  of paragraph  16  of  the  Appendix  to  the  General
Conditions,  an  amount  equivalent  to $300,000,000  to  be provided  by the  Co-financier  to
assist in financing  the Project.

"Co-financing  Agreement"  means the agreement  to be entered  into between the Borrower
and the  Co-financier providing  for the Co-financing.

"Commitment  Charge during Construction" means  the commitment charge  accrued during
the  Construction  Period  (as  hereinafter  defined)  and payable  on  the  Loan  in  accordance
with the terms  set forth  or referred to  in Section  2.04 of this Agreement.

"Common  Organization"  has  the meaning  ascribed  to  it  in the Protocol  and  is referred  to
in  Section  I.A.1  of the  Schedule  to  the  WAPDA  Project  Agreement  and  to  the  NTDC
Project Agreement,  respectively.

"Construction  Period" means  the period  commencing on the Effective  Date and ending on
the  Closing Date, in relation to works under the Project.

-21-

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

"Consultant  Guidelines" means the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits and Grants  by World Bank Borrowers"  dated January
2011  (revised  July  2014)  or,  for  such  consultants  employed  earlier  than the  date  of this
Agreement as part of the Original  Project and also financed  from the proceeds  of the Loan,
the version  of those guidelines  applicable at the time of such employment.

"CPPAG" means  Central  Power Purchasing  Agency  Guarantee  Limited, the Borrower's
statutory  agency  responsible  for the  purchase  of hydroelectricity  from  WAPDA,  or  any
successor thereto.

"CPPA" means  the Borrower's  central  power purchasing  agency  at  the  time of signature
of the Escrow  Account Agreement  in accordance  with the provisions of the Original  Loan
Agreement.

"CS  Consultant"  means  the  consulting  firm  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.  1(c)(i)  of the
Schedule to WAPDA Project Agreement.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  any persons  who,  on  account of the execution  of the Project,
has experienced  or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:  (a) the
involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter;  (ii) loss of assets  or
access to assets;  or (iii) loss of income  sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such
person must move to another  location;  or (b)  the involuntary restriction or access to legally
designated parks and protected  areas, resulting  in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such
persons.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  means  the  environmental  and  social
management  plan included in the Borrower's  and Project Implementing Entities'  document
prepared  for  the  Project  entitled  "Environmental  and  Social  Assessment"  and  dated
February  2016. The  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan provides  directives  and
guidance  to  ensure  transparent  and  effective  monitoring,  prevention,  minimization,
mitigation,  off-setting  and  enhancement  measures  to  address  environmental  and  social
impacts  associated  with the Project,  and addresses  the  following  topics: (i) organizational
responsibilities  and  communications,  (ii)  management  and  monitoring  activities,  (iii)
training  and  awareness,  (iv)  record  keeping,  (v)  performance  monitoring,  reporting  and
auditing, and  (vi) grievance  mechanism.

"Escrow  Account"  has the meaning  ascribed  to it in  Section  I.A.3(c)  of Schedule 2  to this
Agreement.

"Escrow  Account  Agreement"  means  the  escrow  account  agreement  entered  in between
WAPDA and NTDC/CPPA  on June  12,  2013  with respect to the Original Project.

"Escrow  Amount"  has  the meaning  ascribed  to  it in  Section  I.A.3(c)  of Schedule 2  to  this
Agreement.

"General  Conditions"  means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
General  Conditions  for Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with the modifications  set  forth in
Section II  of this Appendix.

-22-

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

"GRM"  has the  meaning  ascribed  to  it  in the Original  Loan Agreement  and referred  to  in
Section  I.D.6  of Schedule  2  to  the  Loan  Agreement  and  in  Section  I.D.6  of Schedule  to
each of the Project Agreements.

"Improved  Arrangement"  means  the  improved  arrangement  for  implementation  and
procurement  activities described in the Protocol.

"Incremental  Operating Costs"  means the reasonable incremental  operating  costs under the
Project,  based  on the  Annual  Work  Plans  and  Budgets  and  incurred  by the Borrower  or
either  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entities  for  purposes  of  Project  management,
implementation,  and monitoring and evaluation,  on account  of utilities  and supplies, bank
charges,  Taxes payable on a  discrete basis (such  as those payable through  stamped paper),
communications,  vehicle  operation,  maintenance,  and  insurance,  office  space  rental,
building  and  equipment  maintenance,  public  awareness-related  media  expenses,
domestic and international  travel  and  subsistence,  and  salaries  and salary  supplements  of
contractual  and  temporary  staff  (including  those  incremental  to  either  of the  Project
Implementing  Entities  and  working  exclusively  on  the  Project),  but  excluding  salaries,
fees,  honoraria, bonuses,  and any other salary  supplements  of members  of the Borrower's
civil  service.

"International  Panel  of Experts"  has the  meaning  ascribed  to  it  in  in  Section  I.A.4 of the
Schedule to the WAPDA Project Agreement.

"Interest  During Construction"  means the interest  accrued  during.the  Construction Period
and  payable  on  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  terms  set  forth  or referred  to  in  this
Agreement.

"Land  and Involuntary  Resettlement  Compensation"  means the reasonable  compensations
and other assistance  to be paid in  cash to  Displaced Persons  pursuant  to the Resettlement
Action Plan(s),  as agreed  with the Bank,  on account  of:  (i)  the taking of their land and/or
their compulsory relocation  or loss  of shelter;  (ii) their loss of assets  or access  to  assets in
connection  with the above-referred  land takings/relocations;  (iii) the loss of income sources
or means  of livelihood, whether  or not such person  must move to  another location;  or (iv)
the  involuntary  restriction  or  access  to  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,
resulting  in  adverse  impacts on  the  livelihood of such person.

29. 

"Managing  Director NTDC"  means Managing Director of NTDC.

30. 

"MWP"  means the Borrower's  Ministry of Water  and Power, or any successor  thereto.

31. 

"NTDC" means  National  Transmission  and  Dispatch  Company  Limited,  an  electricity
transmission,  system operation and dispatch utility established  and operating under Section
32  of the Companies  Ordinance (1984)  of the Islamic  Republic  of Pakistan  and NEPRA's
license  No.  TIJL01/2002,  and  registered  with  the  Joint  Registrar  of  Companies  under
certificate  of incorporation  No.  L-09689, dated  Noiember 6,  1998.

32. 

"NTDC  Legislation"  means  NTDC's  Memorandum  and  Articles  of Association,  dated
November 6,  1998,  as  amended to  the date  of this Agreement.

-23-

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

"NTDC  Project  Agreement"  means the  Project  Agreement  between  the  Bank and  NTDC
with respect  to the Project.

"NTDC Subsidiary Agreement"  means the agreement referred  to in Section I.B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement  pursuant to  which the  Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Loan available  to  NTDC.

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  loan  agreement  for  a  Tarbela  Fourth  Extension
Hydropower Project betweenthe Borrowerand the Bank, dated April 12, 2012, as amended
to  the  date of this Agreement  (Loan No.  8144-PK).

"Original  Project"  means  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  the  Original  Loan
Agreement.

"Pakistan  Rupees"  means the lawful currency  of the Borrower.

"PM&E  Consultant"  means  the  consulting  firm  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1(c)(ii)  of the
Schedule to the WAPDA Project Agreement.

"PMU' has the meaning ascribed  to it in the Protocol  and referred to  in Section I.A. 1(b)  of
the Schedule to the WAPDA Project.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and
Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA  Credits  and  Grants by World Bank
Borrowers"  dated January  2011  (revised July 2014) or, for such contracts for goods, works
and non-consulting  services  entered  into earlier than  the date of this Agreement  as  part of
the  Original  Project and  also financed from  the proceeds  of the Loan, the version of those
guidelines  applicable at the time  of such contracting.

"Procurement  Plan"  means the  Borrower's procurement  plan for the Project,  dated August
4,  2016  and  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.18  of the  Procurement  Guidelines  and  paragraph
1.25  of  the  Consultant  Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
accordance with  the provisions  of said paragraphs.

"Project  Agreements"  means,  collectively, the  WAPDA Project Agreement  and the NTDC
Project  Agreement.

"Project  Director"  has the meaning  ascribed to  it  in the  Protocol and  referred to  in Section
I.A.1(a)  of the  Schedule  to  the  WAPDA Project  Agreement  or  in  Section  I.A.(b)  of the
Schedule to  the NTDC  Project Agreement,  as  the  case may be.

"Project  Implementing  Entities"  means  collectively  NTDC  and  WAPDA  and  "Project
Implementing  Entity"  means NTDC  or WAPDA,  as the  context  may  require.

"Protocol"  means  the  Procurement  and  Contract  Management  Protocol,  dated  August  3,
2016,  regarding  projects  implemented  or to be implemented  by  one or both of the Project
Implementing  Entities  and  financed  or to  be financed  by  the  Bank or the  Association,  as

-24-

the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  subject  to  the  agreement  of  the  Project
Implementing  Entities and the  Bank.

"PSC" means the  steering committee for the Project maintained  in accordance  with Section
I.A.2 of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Resettlement  Action Plan"  means  the  Resettlement  Action Plan to  be  prepared  or cause
to be prepared by the Borrower and NTDC  for the implementation  of Part B.3 of the Project
in accordance  with the provisions  of the Resettlement  Policy Framework.

"Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  means  the  Borrower's  and  the Project  Implementing
Entities'  document  entitled  "'Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Framework  for  the
Tarbela  Fifth  Extension  Transmission  Line"  and  dated  February  2016,  containing
guidelines,  procedures, 
timetables  and  other  specifications 
for  the  provision  of
compensation,  and  assistance  to  Displaced  Persons,  as  the  same  may be  amended  from
time to time in accordance  with Section I.D.4 of Schedule 2  to this Agreement  and Section
I.D.4  of the  Schedule to the NTDC  Project  Agreement.

49. 

"Respective Part  of the Project"  means:

(a) 

(b) 

in  respect of WAPDA:  the Project except Part B.3; and

in  respect of NTDC:  Part B.3 of the Project.

"Respective  Project  Agreement"  means  the  WAPDA  Project  Agreement  or  the  NTDC
Project  Agreement, as the context  shall require.

"Respective  Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  WAPDA  Subsidiary  Agreement  or  the
NTDC  Subsidiary Agreement,  as the context  shall  require.

the  Resettlement  Policy  Framework, 

"Safeguard  Documents"  means,  collectively,  the Environmental  and  Social  Management
the
Plan, 
recommendations  made  from time to  time by the International  Panel of Experts, as well as
other  safeguard  documents  related  to  the  Original  Project,  to  the  extent  that  they  are
applicable  to the Project.

the  Resettlement  Action  Plan, 

"Subsidiary  Agreements"  means, collectively, the  WAPDA  Subsidiary Agreement  and the
NTDC  Subsidiary Agreement.

"Tarbela  Dam"  means  the dam of such name  on the Indus  River  in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province  in  the northwest  of the Borrower's territory.

"Tarbela  Dam  Monitoring  Organization"  has  the  meaning  ascribed  to  it  in  the  Original
Loan Agreement,  and is referred to in Section I.A.3  of the Schedule to the WAPDA Project
Agreement.

"Training"  means  the costs of training  under  the Project, based  on the annual  work  plans
and budgets referred to in Section I.C of the Schedule to the Project Agreement as approved

46. 

47. 

48. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

56. 

-25-

by the Bank, and  attributable  to seminars,  workshops, and  study tours,  along with domestic
and  international  travel  and  subsistence  allowances  for  training  participants,  services  of
trainers,  rental of training  facilities, preparation  and reproduction  of training materials,  and
other activities  directly related  to  course  preparation  and implementation.

"Transmission  PMU"  means  the  Transmission  PMU  established  in  accordance  with
Section  I.A.(b)  of the  Schedule to the NTDC  Project Agreement.

"Tunnel  5"  means,  among  the  five  original  tunnels  of  the  Tarbela  Dam,  the  tunnel
identified  as Tunnel 5,  which is the one of the two tunnels  initially slated  for irrigation use
which has  not been developed  for hydropower  purpose  under the Original  Project.

"WAPDA"  means  Water and Power  Development  Authority,  the Borrower's entity,  under
MWP, established and operating  pursuant  to the WAPDA Legislation, and responsible  for
the  development  and  management  of the Borrower's  water  and  power resources,  or any
successor thereto.

"WAPDA  Authority"  means  the management  structure of WAPDA including a Chairman,
WAPDA Member  (Water),  WAPDA  Member (Power) and WAPDA  Member (Finance).

"WAPDA  Legislation"  means  the  Water and  Power Development  Authority Act  (1958),
as amended  from time  to  time until the date of this Agreement.

"WAPDA Member (Water)"  means the member of the WAPDA  Authority responsible for
WAPDA's  the Water  Wing.

"WAPDA  Project  Agreement"  means  the  Project  Agreement  between  the  Bank  and
WAPDA with respect to the Project.

"WAPDA  Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of
Schedule 2  to this  Agreement  pursuant to which the Borrower shall  make  the proceeds  of
the Loan available  to  WAPDA.

Section II. 

Modifications  to  the General Conditions

The General  Conditions  are  hereby modified  as follows:

In  the Table  of Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and Section  numbers
are modified to reflect  the  modifications  set forth in the paragraphs  below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as  follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

(a) 
specified  in the Loan Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan amount  at  the  rate

57. 

58. 

59. 

60. 

61. 

62. 

63. 

64. 

I. 

2. 

-26-

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

(b) 
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a  commitment  charge  on the Unwithdrawn Loan
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of the  Loan
Agreement  to the respective  dates  on which  amounts  are withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan  Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually
in arrears  on each Payment  Date."

In  the Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs
are  modified, as  necessary,  to reflect  the modification  set  forth in  paragraph 2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the subsequent paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the purpose of Section  3.01(b)."

In the renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally paragraph  48)  of the Appendix, the definition
of "Front-end Fee" is modified by replacing the reference  to Section  3.01  with Section 3.01
(a).

In the renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the definition
of the term "Loan  Payment"  is modified  to read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"68. 
pursuant  to  the Legal Agreements  or these General  Conditions,  including  (but not limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or early  termination  of a Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium payable  upon the  establishment  of
an Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest  Rate  Collar, and  any Unwinding  Amount  payable by  the
Borrower."

7. 

In the renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix, the  definition
of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the words  "and
Commitment Charge are"  after the  word "interest".

