OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER 8903-AR

Loan  Agreement

(Additional  Financing  for the Children and Youth Protection  Project)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

and 

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC
AND
BANK 
("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the  purpose  of  providing  additional  financing  for  the  Original
Project  (as defined  in  the Appendix to this Agreement).  The  Borrower and  the Bank hereby agree
as  follows:

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

INTERNATIONAL 

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General  Conditions (as defined  in the Appendix to this Agreement)  apply to and  form

part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the context  requires  otherwise,  the capitalized  terms used  in this Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank  agrees to  lend to the  Borrower the  amount of four  hundred  fifty  million United
States Dollars ($450,000,000),  as such amount may be converted  from time to time through
a Currency Conversion  ("Loan"),  to assist  in financing the project described  in  Schedule  I
to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the Loan  in accordance  with  Section  III of
Schedule  2  to this Agreement.  The Borrower's  Representative  for purposes  of taking  any
action  required or permitted  to be taken  pursuant  to this Section  is  its Minister of Treasury
or its Undersecretary  of International  Financial  Relations.

2.03.  The Front-end  Fee  is one quarter of one percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter  of  one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the

Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest  rate  is the Reference  Rate plus the Variable  Spread or  such rate  as may  apply
following a Conversion;  subject to  Section 3.02(e) of the General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment Dates are  March  I  and  September  I  in each  year.

2.07.  The  principal  amount of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  Schedule  3  to  this

Agreement.

ARTICLE M - PROJECT

3.01.  The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this end,  the
Borrower,  through  ANSES,  shall  carry  out  the  Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  V of the General  Conditions and Schedule  2 to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline is  the date ninety  (90) days  after the  Signature  Date.

ARTICLE  V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

Except  as  provided  in  Section 2.02  of this  Agreement,  the  Borrower's  Representative  is
its  Minister of Treasury.

5.02.  For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions: (a)  the Borrower's  address  is:

Ministry  of Treasury
Hip6lito  Yrigoyen 250
C1086AAB
Buenos Aires,  Argentina;  and

(b) the Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

E-mail:
secpriv@mecon.gob.ar

5.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:  (a)  the Bank's  address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America; and

(b)  the Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391 

jhentschel@worldbank.org

AGREED as of the Signature  Date.

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

twaws

Title:'W  N;Sn)  p6  j3PtG sDA

Date:  32*I

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Name:

Date:

Title: 

71

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (i)  expand  coverage  of the  Family  Allowances

Programs;  and (ii)  improve  transparency of social  protection  programs implemented  by ANSES.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

Part  1:  AUH  Program  Financing

Provision of AUH  Grants to AUH  Recipients.

Part 2:  Closing  the coverage  gaps of the AI}H Program

2.1. 

(a) 

2.2. 

Gathering missing  information  of AUH  beneficiaries,  through:

Collection  of data from  birth certificates of children  whose parents may be  eligible
to  receive AUH  Grants,  including: (i)  the  preparation of an action  plan containing
the  list  of  children  with  missing  family  information 
in  ANSES  ADP,  the
methodology  to  collect  said  missing  information,  timeline  for implementation  of
said  plan  and  expected  targets;  and  (ii)  the  update  of ANSES  ADP  through  the
transferring  of the data from  birth certificates mentioned herein to ANSES  by each
Participating  Registry;  and

carrying  out of coordination  activities  with the Borrower's  provincial  ministries  of
Education,  to complete  the reporting  on co-responsibilities  for children and youth
under  the  AUH  for  whom  there 
is  no  evidence  of compliance  of  said  co-
responsibilities on  ANSES's records.

the  provision  of support  to  Selected  Municipalities  to:  (i)  develop  a  municipal
territorial  action  plan  to  reach  families  with children  and  youth  with  no  evidence
of compliance  of  AUH  co-responsibilities  on  ANSES's  records,  and  those  that
were not identified  through Part 2.1  of the Project;  and (ii)  implement the pertinent
PAT,  including,  inter alia, the carrying  out  of field  work  to  collect  information
through  home  visits  using  the  address  information  on  record,  if available,  and
completing a Ficha Social; and

the carrying  out of activities to  support the field  work mentioned  in paragraph  (a)
(ii)  herein,  including, inter alia: (i)  the carrying out of communication  campaigns
and  preparation  of dissemination  materials;  (ii)  the  installation  of kiosks  in  key
spots,  such as in hospitals and  public  locations; and  (iii)  the provision of ANSES'
mobile units with connectivity.

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

2.3. 

Improving  access  to  AUH  for  indigenous  populations,  through  the  implementation  of
specific  actions,  as  described 
in  the  NIPP,  to  reach  out  to  indigenous  communities
including,  inter alia: (a)  the  design  of  special  field  arrangements  and  management  of
benefits  and  services  in  indigenous  communities'  areas;  (b)  the  carrying  out of training

workshops for indigenous leaders  on social security topics; (c) the provision of training to
allow  indigenous communities  to access  ANSES'  information  and  procedures  remotely;
and (d)  the  dissemination  of information  related  to the  Project  in  indigenous  languages,
including contents in indigenous radios programs  and non-indigenous programs  that reach
indigenous community areas, as well as in any other type of suitable telecommunication.

Part  3:  Institutional  Strengthening  of ANSES  on  Information  Procedures  and  Transparency  and
Proiect Mananement

3.1. 

Carrying  out  of  activities  to  improve  information  of  management  procedures  and
transparency,  including:

(a) 

the  development  of a  protocol  and  related  software  for  a  systemic  exchange of
information among ANSES,  RENAPER  and  the provincial civil registries; (b) the
carrying  out of training of provincial  civil registries  staff;  (c)  the  acquisition of
goods to strengthen the information technology capacity of Participating Registries
to support activities under Part 2.1  of the Project; (d) the design of mechanisms for
direct verification of compliance of co-responsibilities  under the AUH, including
the  improvement  of information  flow  among  ANSES,  MDS  and  the  provincial
Ministries  of  Health  and  Education;  (e)  the  provision  of support  to  improve
ANSES'  grievance  redress  mechanism  and citizen participation;  (f)  the carrying
out of data  exchange with other public stakeholders  at the  federal and provincial
levels;  (g)  the  carrying out of studies  and  preparation  of publications,  on  social
security  topics;  (h)  the  carrying  out  of dissemination  events  and  workshops to
improve transparency and access to information on  the Borrower's social security
programs;  (i)  the  implementation  of mechanisms  to  improve  the  verification of
compliance of co-responsibilities under the AUH, through information technology
applications  that  can  be  operated  directly  by  AUH  Recipients;  and  (j)  the
development and operation of an early alert system directed to Provinces, to avoid
the suspension of benefits to AUH Recipients.

Part 4: 
Management

4.1. 

3.2. 

The provision of support to the ANSES  PMT,  including the carrying out of Project audits.

Institutional  Strengthenina.  of  the  Ministry  of  Social  Development  and  Project

Strengthening  the  MDS's  capacity  on  planning, budgeting and  implementation  of social
protection programs  and  services, including:  (a)  the development  of an  integrated  social
protection network to promote the coordination of social protection programs and services
of the  Borrower's  national  and  sub-national  governments;  (b)  the  improvement  of the
design and the operational functions of MDS'  programs  and services; (c) the development
and implementation  of a plan for continuous training of civil servants;  and (d) the provision
of support  to the MDS  PMU.

4.2. 

(a) 

The  development  of tools  and  instruments  to  collect and  analyze data  on  MDS'
programs  and  social  policies;  and  (b)  the  strengthening  of MDS's  capacity  on
monitoring  and evaluation of social protection policies and programs  to generate

evidence-based  recommendations  and  guidelines,  including, 
inter  alia,  the
carrying  out  of an  impact  evaluation  of  AUH  and  evaluations  of other  social
programs.

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arraneements

Institutional Arrangements and Operational Manual

A. 

1. 

The Borrower,  through  ANSES,  shall:  (i)  operate  and maintain within  ANSES,  during the
execution  of the  Project,  a  Project  management  team  (ANSES  PMT)  with  functions  and
responsibilities  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  to  coordinate,  evaluate  and  manage  Project
implementation;  and  (ii)  staff said  team  with  a  coordinator,  technical  experts,  and  other
personnel, all  in  number and  with qualifications  and experience acceptable  to the Bank.

2. 

(a) 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  of Article  V of the General  Conditions,  the
Borrower,  through  ANSES,  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with  an
Operational  Manual, satisfactory  to the Bank,  containing,  inter alia

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

the terms  of reference  and  functions and  responsibilities  of the  personnel
of the ANSES  PMT;

(A)  the  criteria  for the  identification,  registration  and  selection  of AUH
Recipients; (B) the requirements  to be fulfilled  by AUH  Recipients  under
the  AUH;  (C)  the  mechanisms  for verification  of compliance  with  AUH
conditions and  co-responsibilities;

the procedures  for  the procurement  of goods  and  services,  as well  as the
procedures  for  financial  management,  audit  requirements  under  the
Project;

the  indicators  to  be  used  in  the monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  Project
(including the Disbursement-Linked  Indicators);

the  disbursement  arrangements  of  Loan  proceeds, 
reimbursement mechanisms  for the AUH  Grants;  and

including 

the

(vi) 

the National  Indigenous Peoples  Plan (NIPP).

(b) 

In case  of any conflict  between the  provisions  of this Agreement and those  of the
Operational  Manual,  the provisions of this Agreement  shall prevail.

B. 

Safeguards

The  Borrower,  through  ANSES  and  MDS,  shall  carry  out  the Project  in accordance  with
the NIPP.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting and Evaluation

The Borrower,  through ANSES,  shall furnish to the Bank each Project  Report not later than
forty-five  days after the end  of each  calendar semester,  covering  the calendar semester.

Section  m.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General.

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Article  II  of  the  General  Conditions  and  in
accordance  with  the Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the  Borrower may
withdraw  the  proceeds  of the Loan  to: (a)  finance  Eligible  Expenditures;  and  (b)  pay:  (i)
the  Front-end  Fee;  and (ii)  each  Interest Rate  Cap  or  Interest Rate  Collar premium;  in the
amount  allocated  and, if applicable,  up to  the percentage  set forth against each Category  of
the  following table:

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage of Expenditures
to be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  AUH  Grants 

448,875,000 

(2)  Front-end  Fee 

1,125,000 

100%  of the  amount  of each
AUH  Grant 
to
paragraph  B. I  and 2 below)

(subject 

Amount  payable  pursuant  to
this
2.03 
Section 
Agreement in accordance with
Section 2.07 (b)  of the General
Conditions

of 

Amount  due  pursuant 
to
Section 4.05 (c) of the General
Conditions

(3) 
Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate  Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

450,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal  Period.

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be  made for payments
made  prior to  the  Signature  Date, except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an aggregate  amount not
to  exceed  $90,000,000  equivalent  may  be  made  for payments made  prior  to the Signature
Date  (but  in  any  case,  within  twelve  months  prior  to  the  Signature  Date),  for  Eligible
Expenditures, provided  that the pertinent  obligations/conditions  set forth in this Agreement
and  in the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  as applicable  to each  Eligible
Expenditure,  have been complied  with  in a manner  acceptable to  the Bank.

2. 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  set  forth  in  paragraph  I  above,  withdrawals  under
Category  (1)  shall  be  governed  by the following  provisions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

Withdrawals  up  to  $90,000,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that  the  Borrower  shall
have  furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  the  First  Set  of Target
Indicators  have been met.

Additional  withdrawals  up to  $50,000,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower  shall have  furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  that the  Second
Set of Target Indicators  have  been met; and  (B) any  said withdrawal  shall not take
place prior to three  months after the Signature  Date.

Additional  withdrawals  up  to $50,000,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower shall  have  furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  that the  Third
Set of Disbursement  Indicators  have  been met;  and (B)  any  said  withdrawal  shall
not  take place  prior to six  months after the Signature  Date.

Additional  withdrawals  up  to  $50,000,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower  shall have  furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,  that the Fourth
Set  of Disbursement  Indicators  have been  met;  and (B)  any said  withdrawal  shall
not take  place prior to nine months  after the Signature  Date.

Additional  withdrawals  up  to  $50,000,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower shall have  furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Fifth Set
of Disbursement  Indicators  have been  met;  and (B)  any  said withdrawal  shall not
take  place prior to twelve  months after the Signature  Date.

Additional  withdrawals  up  to $50,000,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower  shall  have  furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  the  Sixth
Set  of Disbursement  Indicators  have been  met;  and  (B)  any said  withdrawal  shall
not take  place prior to  fifteen months after the  Signature Date.

Additional  withdrawals  up  to $50,000,000  shall  be made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower shall have furnished  evidence, satisfactory to  the Bank,  that the Seventh
Set of Disbursement  Indicators  have  been met; and  (B)  any  said withdrawal  shall
not take place prior to  eighteen months  after the Signature  Date.

Additional  withdrawals  up  to $58,875,000  shall  be  made,  provided  that:  (A)  the
Borrower  shall  have  furnished  evidence,  satisfactory  to the  Bank, that the  Eighth
Set of Disbursement  Indicators have  been met;  and (B) any said  withdrawal  shall
not take place  prior to twenty-one months  after the Signature  Date.

3. 

The Disbursement-Linked  Indicators  shall be  as follows:

Disbursement Indicators 

Number of children 
under 18 years old  with 
complete  records in 
ANSES  ADP 

Number of AUI Reports
(cumulative  since  the
Signature Date of the
Original Loan) published
and publicly  accessible

First Set  of Target Indicators 

Second  Set of Target Indicators 

Third  Set of Target Indicators 

Fourth  Set of Target  Indicators 

Fifth  Set of Target Indicators 

Sixth  Set of Target Indicators 

Seventh  Set of Target Indicators 

Eighth Set of Target Indicators 

12,930,329 

12,948,254 

12,976,178 

13,009,103 

13,037,028 

13,069,952 

13,097,877 

13,125,801 

10

13

16

19

22

25

28

31

4. 

Without  limitation  to  the  provisions  set  forth  in  the  Disbursement  and  Financial
Information  Letter,  if at  any time,  the  Bank  determines  that  any  portion of the  amounts
disbursed  by the  Borrower under Category  (1)  were  made: (a)  for expenditures  which  are
not  eligible  under the Project;  or (b)  not in compliance  with  the provisions of this  Section
III.B; the  Borrower shall promptly  refund  any such  amount  to the  Bank as the  Bank shall
specify  by  notice to  the Borrower.

5. 

The Closing  Date is December  31, 2020.

Section  IV.  Other Undertakings

A. 

The  Borrower  and  the  Bank  hereby  agree  to  amend  the  Original  Loan  Agreement  as
reflected  in  Schedule  4 to this Agreement.

SCHEDULE 3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization  Repayment  Schedule

The following  table sets forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates of the  Loan  and  the percentage  of the
total principal  amount of the  Loan  payable  on each  Principal  Payment Date ("Installment  Share").

Level Principal  Repayments

Principal  Payment Date 

Installment Share

On each  March  I  and  September  1
Beginning  March  1,  2026 
through  September  1, 2050

2%

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

SCHEDULE  4

Amendments  to  the Original Loan Agreement

Paragraph  3.1  (a) under  Part 3 of the Project in Schedule  I  is hereby amended to  read in  its
entirety  as set  forth  in  paragraph  3.1  (a)  under Part  3  of the  Project  in  Schedule  I  of this
Agreement.

Paragraph  (a) of Section I.A.  I  of Schedule  2 to the  Loan Agreement  is hereby  amended to
read  as follows:

"(a) 

through  ANSES,  shall:  (i)  operate  and  maintain  within  ANSES,  during  the
execution  of  the  Project,  a  Project  management  team  (ANSES  PMT)  with
functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the Bank,  to  coordinate,  evaluate  and
manage  Project  implementation;  and  (ii)  staff  said  team  with  a  coordinator,
technical  experts,  and other  personnel,  all  in number  and  with  qualifications  and
experience  acceptable to the Bank."

Any references to "ANSES  PMU" are  hereby  replaced  with  "ANSES  PMT".

Any  references  to  "consultants'  services"  and  "Non-Consultant  Services"  are  hereby
replaced,  respectively,  with "consulting services"  and  "non-consulting  services".

5. 

Section  III of Schedule  2  is hereby  amended to  read  in its entirety as follows:

"All  goods,  works,  and  services  required  for  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth or
referred to  in the Procurement  Regulations  and the provisions  of the Procurement  Plan."

The  phrase  "(in  thousands)"  in  the  heading of the second  column  of the table  in  Section
IV.B.3  of Schedule  2  to the Loan Agreement  is hereby  deleted.

The definition of "Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  in  the corresponding paragraph  of Section
I of the Appendix is hereby amended to  read in its entirety as set forth in the corresponding
paragraphs  of Section  I  of the Appendix to  this Agreement.

The definition of "Procurement  Regulations"  is hereby added  to Section  I of the Appendix
(in  its  corresponding alphabetical  order) to read  in  its entirety  as set forth in paragraph  28
of Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement  and the subsequent paragraphs  renumbered
accordingly.

9. 

The definition  of "Procurement  Plan" is hereby amended  in its entirety to  read  as follows:

"Procurement  Plan  means  the  Borrower's  procurement  plan  for  the Project,  provided  for
under Section  IV  of the Procurement  Regulations,  as such  plan  may be updated  from time
to time with the  Bank's approval."

10. 

The definitions  of "Consultant  Guidelines", "Non-Consultant  Services", and "Procurement
Guidelines",  set forth in Section  I of the Appendix  are  hereby deleted  in  their entirety  and
the subsequent  paragraphs  renumbered  accordingly.

I. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

"ANSES"  means Administracidn Nacional de la Seguridad Social, the  Borrower's  social
security  administration,  established pursuant to the Borrower's  Decree  No. 2741/ 1991,  as
said Decree  has been amended  to the date  of this Agreement,  as a decentralized  agency  of
the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Labor, or any successor thereto  acceptable to  the  Bank.

"ANSES  ADP"  means  Administrador  de  Personas,  ANSES'  main  database  for
individuals.

"ANSES  PMT"  means  the  team  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement,  or any successor thereto acceptable  to the Bank.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the Appendix  to the
General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing and  Combating Fraud and  Corruption
in Projects Financed  by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and  Grants", dated October  15, 2006
and  revised in January  2011  and as  of July  1,  2016.

"AUH"  means Asignacidn Universal por Hyo para la Proteccidn Social, the  Borrower's
non-contributory  component  of the  Family  Allowances  Programs,  created  through  the
Borrower's  Executive  Decree  No.  1602/09  (which  amended  the  Family  Allowances
Programs),  dated  October 29,  2009,  and  published  in the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on
October 30, 2009.

"AUH  Grant"  means  a  grant  made  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  by  the  Borrower,
through  ANSES,  to the  bank account  of the AUH  Recipient.

"AUH  Recipient"  means an  individual  who  meets the criteria set  forth  in the Operational
Manual  to receive  an  AUH  Grant.

"AUH  Report"  means  the statistical  report  on  AUH  prepared,  in the  form  and  substance
specified to  that effect  in the Operational  Manual,  and  published  every month  by ANSES.

"Category"  means a  category  set forth  in  the table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

"Disbursement-Linked  Indicators"  means  the  indicators  set forth  in  the table  in  Section
III.B.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Eighth  Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set forth in the table  in Section
III.B.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Family  Allowances  Programs" means Asignaciones Familiares, the Borrower's programs
established  pursuant to Articles 6 (a) and 6 (i)  of the Borrower's  Law No. 24,714, published
in the  Borrower's  Official  Gazette on  October  18,  1996,  as  amended  by  the  Borrower's

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

executive decree  No.  1602/09  dated  October 29,  2009,  and  published  in  the  Borrower's
Official Gazette on  October 30, 2009.

"Ficha Social" means  a  form  containing  socioeconomic  information  of households  with
children  under AUH.

"First  Set of Target Indicators" means  the target  indicators set forth  in the table in Section
III.B.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Fourth  Set  of Target  Indicators"  means the  target  indicators set  in  the table  in  Section
III.B.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Fifth  Set of Target Indicators" means the target indicators set in the table in Section  Ill.B.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

"General  Conditions" means the "International  Bank  for Reconstruction and Development
General  Conditions  for IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project  Financing", dated  July  14,
2017.

"ISO"  means  International  Organization  for  Standardization,  an  international  standard-
setting  body composed  of representatives  from  various  national standards  organizations
which issues world-wide proprietary industrial and commercial standards for products.

"MDS"  means the Borrower's Ministry of Social  Development.

"MDS  PMU" means the unit referred  to in Section  l.A. 1  (b)  of Schedule 2 to the Original
Loan Agreement  or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank.

"Municipality"  means a  political sub-division within  any of the Provinces.

"National  Indigenous  Peoples  Plan"  or "NIPP"  means  the  framework  prepared  by  the
Borrower,  published  in  the  Borrower's  territory  on  April  29,  2016  and  in  the  Bank's
external  website  on  May  2, 2016, describing  the  specific measures  and  implementation
arrangements  to be undertaken to guide the interventions and consultations with indigenous
peoples under the Project.

"Original  Loan Agreement"  means the loan agreement  for the Original Project  between the
Borrower  and the  Bank, dated  September 30,  2016, as amended  as of the  Signature  Date
(Loan  No.  8633-AR).

"Original  Project"  means  the  project  described  in  Schedule  I  to  the  Original  Loan
Agreement.

"Operational  Manual"  means the  manual  dated  May  23,  2016, approved  by  the Bank  on
the same date, and referred to in Section  I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same
may  be  amended  from time to  time by agreement  between  the  Borrower and the Bank.

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

"Participating  Registry"  means  any  provincial  or  municipal  registry  which  meets  the
criteria to  participate  in  the implementation  of Part  2.1  (a)  of the  Project.

"PAT"  means  Plan de Acci6n Territorial, any municipal  territorial  action  plan  referred to
in  Section 22 (a)(i) of the Project.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix  to the
General  Conditions,  the "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF Borrowers",  dated
July  2016, revised November 2017.

"Province"  means  any  political  subdivision  of the  Borrower  as  per  Title  Two  of the
Borrower's  Constitution,  and  the  Autonomous  City  of  Buenos  Aires,  and  the  term
"Provinces"  means all  said  political subdivisions.

"RENAPER"  means Registro Nacional de las Personas, the Borrower's  civil registry.

"Second  Set  of Target  Indicators"  means the  target  indicators  set forth  in  in  the table  in
Section  III.B.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Seventh  Set of Target  Indicators"  means the  target indicators  set  forth in  in the table  in
Section  III.B.3 of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

"Signature  Date"  means the  later  of the  two dates  on which the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
signed  this Agreement  and such  definition applies  to all references to "the date of the Loan
Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

"Sixth  Set of Target Indicators"  means the target indicators set forth  in the table in Section
III.B.3  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Third  Set of Target  Indicators" means the target indicators  set forth in the table in Section
III.B.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

