OFF-C-AL
DOCUMENTS

口口■■■■■■■■■■■■口一 口■■口口口■口■■■■■■■■口口 自■■口口口口口口口■■■■■■口口口口口口口口口口口 口口口口口口口口口口口口口目口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口■口口■■■口■口口口口口口■■口口個口口口口口口口口口口■
口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口■口口口口口口口■■■■■■■■■口口■口圈口口口口口口口目■■■■口口口口口■■■■口口口■口目口口口■■口口口口口口口口口口口■口口口圈口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口圈口口口口口口口■口開口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口口

LOAN  NUMBER  8828 一IN

Loan  Agreement

(Meghalaya  Community 一Led Landscapes  Management  Project)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNAT10NAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCT10N
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8828-IN

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of the  Signature Date  between INDIA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The  Borrower and the  Bank hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as defined  in the Appendix  to this  Agreement)  apply to
and form part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the  capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the  General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank agrees  to lend to the Borrower the  amount of forty-eight  million Dollars
($48,000,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  I  to this Agreement  ("Project").
a

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the  Loan in  accordance with  Section

III of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

The Front-end Fee  is one  quarter  of one percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.03. 
2.04.  The Commitment  Charge is one  quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum  on the

Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The interest  rate is the Reference  Rate plus the Variable  Spread or such rate as may
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

The Payment  Dates  are May  15  and November  15  in each year.

2.06. 
2.07.  The principal amount  of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Schedule  3 to

this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

If  on  any  given  day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit (as said terms  are  defined in sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this
Section),  the Borrower shall pay  to the Bank a  surcharge at the  rate  of one

-2-

half of one  percent  (0.5%)  per annum  of the  Allocated  Excess  Exposure
Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)  of this  Section)  for  each  said
day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)  shall  be
payable  semi-annually  in arrears  on  each Payment  Date.

(b) 

For purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount"  means for each  day  during
which  the Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure Limit,
the product  of:  (A)  the total  amount  of said  excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio  of all (or,  if the  Bank  so  determines,  a portion)  of the  Loan
to  the aggregate  amount  of all (or the  equivalent  portions)  of the
loans  made by  the Bank  to  the Borrower,  and to  other borrowers
guaranteed  by  the  Borrower  that  are  also subject  to  an  exposure
surcharge,  as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to  time by the Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if  exceeded,
would subject  the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge,  as determined
from time to time  by the  Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure  to  the Borrower,  as reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01.  The  Borrower declares  its commitment  to the objective  of the Project.  To this  end,
the Borrower  shall cause  the  Project to be  carried out by the Project Implementing
Entity,  acting  through  Meghalaya  Basin  Management  Agency  (MBMA), 
in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  V  of the  General  Conditions,  Schedule
2 to  this Agreement  and the Project Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date ninety (90)  days  after the Signature  Date.

ARTICLE V  - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  any  of the  following  officials:  The  Secretary,
Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary  or  Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic  Affairs  of the Ministry  of Finance of the
Borrower.

5.02.  For  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of  the  General  Conditions:  (a)  the  Borrower's

address is:

-3-

Secretary
Department of Economic  Affairs
Ministry  of Finance,  Government  of India
North Block
New Delhi  110001,  India;  and

(b) the Borrower's Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

secy-dea@nic.in

91-11-2309  4075 
For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:  (a)  the Bank's  address
is:

5.03. 

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America;  and

(b)  the Bank's Electronic  Address is:

'Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  as of the  Signature  Date.

-4-

INDIA

By

Auth 

zed Representative

Name:  gAM6,C. 

K 

/*- c

Title:  VD11T7

Date:  A/P/L 

/b 

.0;g-

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Authori 

Representative

Name:  R/SH0qf A5

Title:  A"/"6f 

/UORAJV,  &e? 

/AlblA

Date:  A PR1-  /C4./

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of  the  Project 

is 

to  strengthen  community-led 

landscapes

management  in selected  landscapes  in the  state of Meghalaya.

The Project  consists  of the following parts:

Part 1:  Strengthening  Knowledge  and Capacity for Natural Resource  Management

1.A 

1.B 

1.C 

Promotion  of traditional  knowledge,  grass-roots  innovations  and  communication
by supporting activities  such as: (i) conducting state  and regional  level workshops
traditional  NRM;  (ii)  developing  a  knowledge  management  strategy  and
on 
network  including an  on-line  platform  for sharing NRM  related  knowledge  to the
Beneficiary(ies)  covered under the Project;  (iii) promoting  and piloting grassroots
innovations  for  sustainable  NRM  products  and  services  through  Innovation
Grants;  and  (iv)  enabling  the  carrying  out  of  catalytic  activities  to  encourage
adoption of community-led  NRM  approach  to Villages  not covered  under Part 2
of the Project.

Training  and  capacity  building  for  the  various  Project  stakeholders  and
Beneficiaries by the Participating Training Agencies  through activities that include
for example:  (i) training on community leadership  and management  of community-
led NRM plans;  (ii)  developing training  facilities  at the block  level EFCs;  and (iii)
conducting  national and international  study cum  exposure visits.

Preparation  of strategies,  research  and  development  by  supporting  consultancies
to  develop  plans  and  strategies  in  certain  identified  areas  including  in:  (i)
developing  a  strategy  and  action  plan  for  promoting  the  development  of  an
innovation  and
institution/agency  of  excellence 
communications;  (ii)  conducting  an  institutional  development  study  for  the
IBDLP;  and (iii)  conducting studies on baseline, deforestation  and natural resource
degradation  as  well as  on rehabilitation  of populations  displaced due  to  mines.

in  knowledge  management, 

1.D  Monitoring,  learning  and  reporting  by  supporting  the  development  of  an  MIS
system designed  by MBMA  to cover  the  entire  state  for tracking  the performance
and implementation  of the Project.

Part 2:  Community-led  landscape  planning  and implementation

2.A 

Provision  of Village  Grants  to VNRMC in  selected Villages  for the preparation  of
community  landscape  plans:  (i)  optimizing  the  synergies  between  programs  and
funding  streams;  and (ii)  planning holistically  to  improve  management  of natural

-6-

resources  under  their  stewardship  as  provided  for  in  the  Community  Operations
Manual.

2.B 

2.C 

Provision  of  Village  Grants 
to  VNRMC 
the
implementation  of  community  landscape  plans  addressing:  (i)  soil  and  water
conservation measures;  (ii)  agro forestry and community forestry;  (iii)  spring  shed
development  and  water  management  plans;  (iv)  afforestation  and regeneration  of
natural  forests;  and  (v)  rehabilitation  of lands  affected by  shifting cultivation  and
mining and  any other natural resource  management  interventions.

in  selected  Villages 

for 

Implementation  support on community  landscape planning and  implementation by
the  SPMU  to  the  Villages  for  the use  of geo-spatial  data  and  other tools  for the
purpose of data collection and mapping to inform  the planning and implementation
of the community-led  NRM  plans.

Part 3:  Project Management  and Governance

the  strengthening  of  the 

Supporting 
institutional  capacity  and  knowledge
management  of the  MBMA  through  activities,  such  as:  (i)  establishment  of the
SPMU  and provision  of administrative  support  to  selected  DPMUs  including  the
appointment  of  relevant  technical  and  support  consultants;  (ii)  financing  of
incremental  operating  costs;  (iii)  provision  of administrative  support  to  selected
BPMUs;  and  (iv)  provision  of  technical,  fiduciary,  safeguards  expertise  and
supervision of Project activities  in the  field.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

2. 

1. 

Section 

.

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements
To  facilitate  the carrying  out of the Project,  the Borrower shall  make  the proceeds
of the  Loan available  to  Meghalaya  in  accordance  with  the Borrower's  standard
arrangements  for developmental assistance  to the states of India.
Notwithstanding  paragraph  1  above,  in  the  event  that  any  provision  of  this
Agreement,  including  the  instructions  that  the  Bank  shall  have  specified  to  the
Borrower pursuant to  the Disbursement  and Financial Information  Letter, were to
be found inconsistent with the Borrower's  standard arrangements for development
assistance to the  States of India, the provisions of this Agreement shall  govern.
The  Borrower  shall  protect  its  own  interests  and  the  interests  of  the  Bank  to
accomplish the purpose  of the  Loan.

Section H. 

Project Monitorin2 Reportin2 and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall,  through Meghalaya,  furnish  to  the Bank each  Project Report
not  later than  forty-five  (45) days  after the  end of each calendar  quarter,  covering
the calendar  quarter.
The  Borrower  shall  cause  Meghalaya  to  carry  out  a  comprehensive  mid-term
Project  review  under terms  of reference  satisfactory to  the Bank;  and  furnish  to
the  Bank  a mid-term  Project  progress  report,  satisfactory  to the Bank by  no  later
than June  30,  2021  counted  from  the Effective  Date.

Section  II.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

Without  limitation upon the provisions of Article  II of the  General  Conditions and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  and (b) pay:  (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate  Collar premium;  in the  amount allocated  and, if applicable,  up to  the
percentage  set forth against  each  Category  of the  following table:

-8-

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

18,000,000 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
60%

5,000,000 

24,880,000 

100%

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consulting
services,  Incremental
Operating  Costs and
Training under Part  I
(excluding Innovation
Grants  under Part  1  of the
Project),  Part 2.C,  and Part
3  of the  Project

(2) Innovation  Grants 
under  Part 1.A  of the
Project

(3)  Village  Grants  under 
Part  2.A  and  2.B  of the
Project

(4) Front-end Fee 

120,000 

(5)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Interest 
Rate 
Collar 
premium 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

0 

48,000,000

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement  in  accordance
with Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant 
Section  4.05 
General  Conditions

to
(c)  of  the

2. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraph  1  above,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for payments  made prior to the  Signature  Date,  except that withdrawals up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  eight  million  Dollars  ($8,000,000)
may be made for payments  made  prior to this date but  on  or after April  1,
2017  for Eligible Expenditures.

for payments  under Category  3  above,  unless  the Community Operations
Manual  has  been  prepared  and  adopted  by  the  MBMA  in  a  manner
satisfactory  to the Bank.

3. 

The Closing  Date is  June  30,  2023.

-9-

SCHEDULE  3

The  following table  sets forth the  Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Principal Payment Date 

Installment Share

On each May  15  and November  15

Beginning May  15,  2023 
through November  15,  2032

5%

-10-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means, for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA  Credits  and Grants",
dated  October  15, 2006  and revised  in January  2011  and  as of July  1,  2016.

"Beneficiary"  means (i) each  recipient of training under Part I.A  or Part I.B of the
Project  respectively;  (ii)  each  eligible recipient  of an  Innovation  Grant under Part
1.A  of the Project;  and  (iii)  each  eligible  VNRMC  recipient  of a  Village  Grant
under Part  2.A  and Part 2.B  of the  Project.

"Block"  means  the administrative  sub-division  of a District in Meghalaya.

"Block  Project Management  Unit"  and the acronym  "BPMU" mean  each existing
unit  established  at  the  Block  level  for  assistance  in  carrying  out  the  Project
activities  in such block,  headed  by the  Block development  officer  and officials  of
the relevant  departments  of the  state.

"Category"  means a category  set  forth in the table in Section III.1  of Schedule  2  to
this  Agreement.

"Community  Operations Manual"  means the  manual to be  adopted by the MBMA
*as set  forth in  Section I.B. 1  of the Schedule  to the  Project Agreement.

"District"  means  any  of the  seven  (7)  administrative  sub-divisions  of Meghalaya
benefitting from the activities  of the Project as agreed between Meghalaya and the
Bank, as well as any other District incorporated  from time to time, within the scope
of the Project  subject to the prior  written  concurrence  of the  Bank.

"District  Project  Management  Unit"  and  the  acronym  "DPMU"  mean  each  unit
established  under  the  MBMA  in  each  District  for  assisting  in  carrying  out  the
Project in such District by leading the coordination  efforts with the SPMU,  BPMUs
and VNRMCs.

"Enterprise  Facilitation  Centre"  and  the acronym  "EFC" mean  the  center in each
Block  established  by  the  MBMA  for  supporting  the  VNRMCs  to  plan  and
implement the community-led  NRM plans.

10. 

"Environmental  Management  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "EMF"  mean  the
Project  Implementing  Entity's  environmental  management  framework,  disclosed
on  August  17,  2017,  setting  forth  the  guiding  policies/principles,  acceptable
standards and procedures for:  (a) the  screening  of Project investment activities  and
the  identification  of  any  adverse  or  positive  environmental  impacts  caused,  or
expected  to  be  caused,  on  account  of their  implementation,  arising  from  the

-11-

the  preparation  of  their  prescribed
carrying  out  of  such  activities; 
environmental management  plans, if required; and (c) the draft technical  guidelines
addressing  the  environmental  concerns  for  the proposed  interventions  in  relation
implementation;  as  such  framework  may  be  revised,  updated  or
to  the 
supplemented  from time  to time  with the prior written  concurrence  of the  Bank.

(b) 

"Expression  of Interest"  and  the acronym  "Eol"  mean  the  expression  of interest
prepared  and  submitted  by  each  VNRMC  to  the  BPMU  for  screening  by  the
DPMU  for consideration  for its  inclusion as  an eligible Village  under the  Project.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated July 14,  2017.

"Implementing  Agency"  means the MBMA  or any successor  thereto.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  incremental
operating  expenditures  incurred  during the  implementation  of the  Project,  which
expenditures  would not have  been  incurred  absent  the Project,  including,  costs  of
operation,  rent  and  maintenance  of offices  and  IT  related  equipment,  hiring  and
maintenance  of  vehicles,  communication  costs,  salaries  of  contractual  staff,
salaries of government  staff on deputation to the Project, the costs of training staff,
to  Project
and 
implementation,  coordination,  and  monitoring,  but  excluding  the  salaries  of civil
servants  of the Borrower.

travel  allowances  of  Project  staff  incurred  with  respect 

"Innovation  Grants" means  grants made or proposed to be made  by the MBMA to
the eligible  Beneficiary(ies)  out of the proceeds of the  Loan to finance  the carrying
out  of the  activities  under  the  terms  of the  Innovation  Grant  Agreement  and  in
accordance  with  the selection criteria  and  the procedures  set forth in the  PIP.

"Innovation  Grant  Agreement"  means  the grant  agreement  to be  entered into  by
and between the Implementing Agency and an eligible Beneficiary,  in accordance
with the PIP.

"Integrated  Basin  Development  and  Livelihood  Promotion  Program",  and  the
acronym "IBDLP" mean the program  of Meghalaya  to develop community-led  and
community-owned plans for creation  and management of natural  assets and being
implemented by the MBMA.

"MBMA"  means  the  Meghalaya  Basin Management  Agency,  a  limited company
incorporated  under Section  8  of the Borrower's Companies  Act (2013)  having its
registered  office  at  House  No  L/A-56,  Lower  Nogrim  Hills,  Shillong-793003,
Meghalaya,  India,  being  the  Implementing  Agency  for the  Project,  which  shall
include its successors  and permitted  assigns.

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

-12-

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

"MIS" means  management  information  system.

"Meghalaya"  means  the  Borrower's  State  of Meghalaya.

"NRM"  means  natural resource  management.

"Participating Training Agencies"  means the technical training institutes identified
under the Project  for the purposes  of Part  1.B  of the Project,  namely the Meghalaya
the
Institute  of  Natural  Resource  Management, 
Department  of Science  and Technology, the  State Institute  of Rural  Development
(SIRD),  the  Forest  Training Institute  (FTI - Tura)  and the  Conservation  Training
Institute of the Soil and  Water Conservation  Department  (CTI).

Institute  of  Governance, 

"Procurement  Plan"  means,  for  purpose  of paragraph  84 of the  Appendix  to  the
General  Conditions,  MBMA's  procurement  plan for the Project  dated  January  16,
2018,  as  updated/supplemented  by  MBMA  from  time  to  time,  pursuant  to  the
Procurement  Regulations.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph 85  of the  Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for
Borrowers  under Investment  Project Financing",  dated  July 1,  2016  .

"Project  Implementing Entity"  means Meghalaya.

the  project
"Project  Implementation  Plan"  and  the  acronym  "PIP"  mean 
implementation  plan  dated  October  2017  prepared  by  the  MBMA  including  the
time-bound action plans,  procedures  and  criteria agreed  with the Bank  for Project
implementation  (including the  criteria  of the selection of villages  under the Project
and the  guidelines  for the  disbursal of the  Innovation  Grants)  as the same  may be
revised,  updated  or  supplemented  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
concurrence  of the  Bank.

"Safeguard  Documents"  means, collectively  the EMF  and the SMF.

"Signature  Date" means the  latest of the two  dates on  which the Borrower and the
Bank  signed  this Agreement  and  such  definition  applies  to  all  references  to  "the
date  of the Loan Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

"Social  Management  Framework"  and  the  acronym  "SMF"  mean  the  Project
Implementing  Entity's  social  management  framework  cum  indigenous  peoples
development  plan,  disclosed  on  August  17,  2017,  setting  forth  the  guiding
policies/principles,  acceptable  standards  and procedures  for:  (a)  the  screening  of
Project investment activities  and the  identification of any adverse  or positive social
impacts  caused,  or  expected  to  be  caused,  on  account  of their  implementation,
arising  from  the  carrying  out  of  such  activities;  (b)  the  preparation  of  their
prescribed  social  impact  assessments;  and (c);  grievance redress  mechanisms;  as

-13-

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

such  framework  may be revised,  updated  or supplemented  from time  to time  with
the prior written concurrence  of the Bank.

"State  Project Management  Unit" and the  acronym "SPMU" mean  the state project
management  unit established  within  the MBMA  pursuant  to Notification Number
MDBA-384/2013/621  of March  2,  2017  for implementing  the  Project.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of training,  workshops  and  conferences
conducted  in the territory of the Borrower or overseas,  subject to the  Bank's prior
agreement, organized  or attended by the Project Implementing Entity's staff and/or
the  staff of the  MBMA,  SPMU,  DPMUs, BPMUs  and the  VNRMCs,  all  in direct
relation  to  the  Project,  which  costs  include,  inter alia, training  institutions'  and
courses'  fees,  logistics  expenses,  rental  of  training  facilities,  purchase  and
publication of training materials,  and travel  and subsistence  allowances  for trainers
and/or trainees.

"Village"  means  any  of  the  four  hundred  villages  within  Meghalaya  located  in
'critical'  or  'very  critical'  landscapes  as  identified  as  per  the  agreed  criteria
between the  Bank  and the  Project Implementing  Entity.

"Village  Grant"  means  the  grant  made  or proposed  to be  made  by the MBMA  to
the eligible VNRMCs  out  of the  proceeds  of the Loan to  finance  the  carrying  out
of the activities under the terms of the Village Grant Agreement  (as defined below)
and in  accordance  with the  criteria and  the procedures  set  forth in the  Community
Operations  Manual.

"Village  Grant  Agreement"  shall  mean  each  such  agreement  to  be  entered  into
between  the  VNRMC  and  the respective  DPMUs  in  accordance  with  the policies
and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Community  Operations  Manual  under  which  the-
Village  Grants  are  provided,  and  which  agreement  shall  include  the  criteria  set
forth in  Section I.E  of the  Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement,  together  with  any
other  addenda  or annexures,  as the  same may be amended from time  to time.

"Village  Natural  Resource  Management  Committee" and the acronym "VNRMC"
mean  the  committee to  be  constituted in  each Village,  comprising  the adult males
and  females  in the  selected  Villages  which will  submit  the Eols,  as per an agreed
template  to the respective  BPMUs  for being considered  for inclusion  under Part 2
of the  Project.

