OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

Loan Agreement

LOAN  NUMBER  8660-GT

(First Improved  Governance  of Public Resources  and  Nutrition  Development Policy Loan)

REPUBLIC  OF  GUATEMALA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated 

JLA 

, 201_

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

into  between  REPUBLIC  OF
L/  40  ,  201,,  entered 
Agreement  dated 
GUATEMALA  ("Borrower"  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  for the  purpose  of providing  financing  in  support  of the  Program  (as
defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).  The  Bank has  decided  to  provide  this financing  on
the  basis, inter alia, of:  (i)  the actions  which the Borrower  has already taken  or supported  under the
Program  and  which  are  described  in  Section  I  of  Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement;  and  (ii)  the
Borrower's  maintenance  of an adequate macroeconomic  policy framework.  The  Borrower and the
Bank therefore  hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  constitute  an
integral  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower,  on the  terms and  conditions  set forth or referred
to  in  this Agreement,  the  amount  of two  hundred  fifty  million  Dollars  ($250,000,000),  as
such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  in
accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  2.08  of this Agreement  ("Loan").

2.02.  The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  support  of the  Program  in

accordance  with Section  II  of Schedule  1  to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent
(0.25%),  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment  Charge  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one

percent (0.25%) per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest  payable  by the  Borrower  for each  Interest  Period shall  be  at a rate equal  to the
Reference  Rate for the Loan Currency  plus the Fixed Spread;  provided,  however, that the
interest  payable  shall  in  no  event  be  less  than  zero  percent  (0%)  per  annum;  and
provided  furthermore that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal  amount
of the  Loan,  the  interest payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on  such
amount  shall be determined  in  accordance  with the relevant  provisions  of Article  IV of the
General Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan
Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-payment  continues  for  a period  of thirty
days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  shall  instead  be  calculated  as  provided  in
Section  3.02  (e)  of the  General  Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment Dates are  March  15  and  September  15  in each  year.

-2-

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the  amortization
schedule  set forth  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

The  Borrower  may  at  any  time  request  any  of the  following  Conversions  of the
terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:  (i)  a change  of
the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the  Loan,
withdrawn  or unwithdrawn,  to an  Approved  Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest
rate basis  applicable  to: (A)  all  or any  portion  of the  principal  amount  of the Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  from  a Variable  Rate to  a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;  or
(B)  all  or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and  the  Variable
Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all  of the principal  amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate
based  on  a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the  setting of limits on  the  Variable  Rate  or the
Reference  Rate applicable  to all  or any  portion of the  principal amount  of the  Loan
withdrawn  and outstanding  by the  establishment  of an  Interest Rate Cap  or Interest
Rate  Collar on the  Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion requested  pursuant to paragraph  (a) of this Section that is accepted
by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in  the  General
Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article  IV
of the  General  Conditions and  of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

Promptly  following  the  Execution  Date  for an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar for which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that the  premium  be  paid  out  of the
proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf of the  Borrower,  withdraw  from
the  Loan  Account  and  pay  to  itself the  amounts  required  to  pay  any  premium
payable  in  accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)  of the  General  Conditions  up  to  the
amount  allocated  from  time  to  time  for  the  purpose  in  the  table  in  Section  II  of
Schedule  I  to  this Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

2.09. 

Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.08  of  this
Agreement  and unless otherwise  notified  by the Borrower to the Bank  in accordance  with
the  provisions  of  the  Conversion  Guidelines,  the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to
consecutive  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  which  in the  aggregate  equal  or exceed
three million  Dollars  ($3,000,000)  shall  be  converted  from  the  initial  Variable  Rate  to a
Fixed Rate  for the  full  maturity  of such  amount  in accordance  with  the provisions  of the
General Conditions  and  of the Conversion  Guidelines.

2.10.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  5.08  of  the  General  Conditions
(renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  Section  II  of  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement  and  relating  to  Cooperation and Consultation), the  Borrower  shall  promptly
furnish  to the Bank  such  information relating to the provisions  of this Article II  as the Bank
may,  from  time to  time, reasonably  request.

-3-

ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its commitment  to the Program  and  its implementation.  The  Loan,
provided in  support of the  Program,  may serve to finance  all  budgeted expenditures  of the
Borrower,  except  for Excluded  Expenditures,  as set  forth in  this Agreement.  To  this  end,
and  further  to  Section 5.08  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank shall  from time  to  time, at the  request  of either  party,
exchange  views  on  the  Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy  framework  and  the
progress achieved  in  carrying out the Program;

prior  to  each  such  exchange  of views,  the Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  for
its  review  and  comment  a  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the
Program,  in such  detail as the  Bank shall reasonably  request;  and

without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of this  Section,
the  Borrower  shall promptly inform  the Bank  of any  situation that would have  the
effect  of materially  reversing  the  objectives  of the  Program  or  any  action  taken
under the Program  including any action  specified in Section  I  of Schedule  I  to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event of Suspension consists  of the  following,  namely, that a situation  has
arisen  which  shall  make  it improbable  that the  Program,  or a significant  part of it,  will be
carried  out.

4.02.  The  Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that  the  event
specified in Section 4.01  of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60  days
after notice  of the  event has  been given by  the  Bank to  the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01.  The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following:  namely,  that he Bank
is  satisfied  with the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out  the  Program  and
with  the adequacy  of the Borrower's  macroeconomic  policy framework.

5.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is August 9,  2018.

ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its Minister of Public  Finance.

-4-

6.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministerio  de Finanzas  Publicas
8a  Avenida y 21  Calle
Centro  Civico,  Zona  I
Guatemala,  Guatemala

Facsimile:
(502)  23742690

6.03. 

The  Bank's Address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  CLk(ok  CA C4j 1!Re9A1qi  .
first above  written.

t( 

(,\At 

av\j A, as  of the  day  and  year

REPUB 

OF GUATEMA

By

Name: 

e  ent  tive

LO 

r-

Title: 

A168ACY- 

YLAu4Iic~ lhCvve

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRU  TION AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

Name: 

Title: 

Authorized  Representative

ftma~-  lacikvci i-KicAk(
V4  V  M  &  c

.
-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Program Actions;  Availability  of Loan Proceeds

Section  I. 

Actions  under the Propram

Actions  Taken  Under  the  Program.  The  actions  taken  or  supported  by  the  Borrower
under the Program  include  the  following:

The  Borrower,  through  MSPAS,  has  created  a new  primary  health  care  model,  including
the  expansion of an essential  package  of nutrition and  health  services,  as  evidenced  by  the
Borrower's  Ministerial  Decree  (Acuerdo  Ministerial) No.  261-2016,  dated  August  29,
2016,  duly published  in  the  Borrower's  official gazette  on September  5,  2016.

The  Borrower  has  established  a  policy  framework  to  reduce  malnutrition  through:  (a)  the
creation  of the  Presidential  Commission  for  the  Reduction  of Chronic  Malnutrition,  as
evidenced by the Borrower's Executive Decree  (Acuerdo Gubernativo) No. 45-2016,  dated
February  22, 2016,  duly published  in the  Borrower's official  gazette  on February  26, 2016;
and  (b)  the  approval  of  a  strategy  to  reduce  chronic  malnutrition,  which  prioritizes  the
implementation  of said  strategy  in  the  7  neediest  sub-national jurisdictions  (departments),
as evidenced by  CONASAN's  Resolution No.  02-2016,  dated  March  3,  2016.

The  Borrower,  through  MIDES,  has  adopted  a  geographical  targeting  methodology  for
MIDES'  programs  and  projects  with  a  view  to  enhance  the  targeting to  the  poor and  the
efficiency  of social  spending, as  evidenced  by the Borrower's  Ministerial  Decree (Acuerdo
Ministerial) No.  DS-42-2016,  dated August  29,  2016.

The  Borrower,  through  MIDES,  has restructured  the  Food-CCT (Transferencia Monetaria
CondicionadaparaAlimentos) by replacing the  in-kind transfer mechanism with a periodic
conditional  transfer  mechanism  that  is:  (a)  provided  with  better  targeting  to  poor  and
extreme  poor  households  enrolled  on the  basis  of socioeconomic  indicators;  (b)  provided
through  a  debit  card  to  be  used  in  pre-identified  food  establishments;  and  (c)  geo-
referenced  to  beneficiary  household  data,  all  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Ministerial
Decree (Acuerdo Ministerial) No. DS-24-2016,  dated  May  5,  2016.

The Borrower  has amended  the  SAT  Organic  Law and  Related Laws,  including provisions
to  limit  bank  secrecy  embedded  in  said  Related  Laws,  to  improve  the  governance  of the
SAT  and  enhance tax  collection  compliance,  all as evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Law No.
37-2016,  dated  July  19,  2016,  duly  published in  the  Borrower's  official gazette  on  August
23,  2016.

SAT  has established an internal  affairs/investigation  unit, with a view to strengthen  internal
accountability,  as evidenced by  SAT's Board Resolution No. 009-2016,  dated June 6, 2016,
duly published  in the  Borrower's  official gazette  on July 25,  2016.

in  procurement
For  purposes  of  increasing  competition  and  limiting  the  discretion 
including  procurement  procedures  for  public  trusts  (fideicomisos),  the
procedures, 
Borrower  has:  (a)  amended  the  Procurement  Code,  as  evidenced  by  the  Borrower's  Law

1  .

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

A. 

B. 

-6-

No.  9-2015,  dated  November  17,  2015,  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette
on  December  8,  2015;  and  (b)  issued  the  corresponding  regulations,  as  evidenced  by
MINFIN's  Executive  Decree  (Acuerdo Gubernativo) No.  122-2016,  dated  June  15,  2016
and No.  147-2016,  dated  July  29,  2016,  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette
on June  16,  2016  and  August  1,  2016, respectively.

For purposes  of enhancing  payroll  controls of public  sector  employees,  the  Borrower  has
mandated:  (a)  the  carrying  out of a  public  sector  workforce  census;  and  (b)  the  use  of its
integrated  system  of human  resources  administration  and  of  its  unified  payroll  system
(Guaten6minas),  all  as  evidenced  by 
the  Borrower's  Executive  Decree  (Acuerdo
Gubernativo) No.  180-2016,  dated  September  12,  2016,  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's
official  gazette  on September  21, 2016.

The  Superintendence  of Banks  has strengthened  its supervision  of financial  transactions  of
High  Risk  Clients,  including  significant  transactions  with  public  sector  entities,  by
mandating:  (a)  financial  institutions  to  carry  out  enhanced  due  diligence  of  business
relationships  with  State  Contractors,  including  bank  accounts;  and  (b)  all  Regulated
Entities to comply  with procedures  for managing  and  addressing the risks  related to money
laundering  and  financing  of terrorism,  all  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Legislative  Decree
No.  67-2001,  dated  December  17,  2001,  as  amended  to the date  of this Agreement,  and  as
evidenced  by  the  Special  Verification  Intendent's  letter No.  3654-2016  dated  September
30,  2016.

The  Borrower  has  strengthened  the  independence  and  capacity  of the  Public  Ministry  to
combat corruption  through:  (a) the amendment of the Public  Prosecution Law, as evidenced
by  the  Borrower's  Legislative  Decree  No.  18-2016,  dated  February  23,  2016,  duly
published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette  on  March  18,  2016;  and  (b) the  creation  of a
Disciplinary  Commission  (Junta Disciplinaria), as  evidenced by letter No.  DRHMP- 1671-
2016,  dated  October 3,  2016,  from the human  resources  director of the Public  Ministry.

Section  II. 

Availability  of  Loan Proceeds

General.  The  Borrower may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of  this  Section  and  such  additional  instructions  as  the  Bank  may  specify  by
notice  to the  Borrower.

Allocation  of  Loan  Amounts.  The  Loan  except  for  amounts  required  to  pay  the  Front-
end  Fee,  is  allocated  in  a  single  withdrawal  tranche,  from  which  the  Borrower  may  make
withdrawals  of the  Loan  proceeds.  The allocation  of the  amounts  of the  Loan  to this  end
is  set out in  the table below:

Allocations 

Amount  of the Loan
Tranche
Allocated
(expressed  in Dollars)

(1)  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche 
(2)  Front-end  Fee 
(3)  Amount due  pursuant to  Section  2.08(c)  of this Agreement 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 

249,375,000
625,000
0
250,000,000

-7-

C. 

1. 

D. 

1. 

2. 

E. 

Withdrawal Tranche Release  Conditions.

No  withdrawal  shall  be  made  of  the  Single  Withdrawal  Tranche  unless  the  Bank  is
satisfied:  (a) with the Program  being carried out by the Borrower; and (b)  with the adequacy
of the  Borrower's macroeconomic  policy framework.

Deposits  of Loan Amounts.  Except  as the  Bank may  otherwise  agree:

all  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  shall  be  deposited  by  the  Bank  into  an  account
designated  by  the Borrower and  acceptable  to the  Bank;  and

the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  ensure  that upon  each  deposit  of an  amount  of the  Loan  into  this
account  an  equivalent  amount  is  accounted  for  in  the  Borrower's  budget  management
system,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (b)  provide  the  Bank  with  a  written
confirmation within thirty (30)  days  of each  such  deposit  mentioned  in (a)  herein.

Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower  undertakes  that the proceeds of the Loan shall not
be  used  to  finance  Excluded  Expenditures.  If the  Bank  determines  at  any  time  that  an
amount  of the  Loan  was  used  to  make  a  payment  for  an  Excluded  Expenditure,  the
Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,  refund an amount equal to the amount
of such  payment  to  the  Bank.  Amounts refunded  to  the  Bank  upon  such  request  shall  be
cancelled.

F. 

Closing Date.  The Closing Date is  September 9,  2019.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Amortization Schedule

The  following table  sets  forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the  percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the Loan  have been  fully withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  determined  by 
the  Bank  by  multiplying:
(a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance as  of the  first Principal  Payment Date;  by  (b)  the  Installment
Share for each  Principal Payment  Date,  such repayable  amount to be adjusted,  as necessary,
to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency
Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On  each  March  15  and  September  15

Beginning  March  15,  2024
through  March  15,  2036 

On  September  15,  2036 

Installment Share
(Expressed  as  a Percentage)

3.85%
3.75%

2. 

If the proceeds  of the Loan  have  not been  fully withdrawn  as of the first  Principal  Payment
Date,  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date  shall be  determined  as  follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To  the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  have  been  withdrawn  as  of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date, the  Borrower  shall repay  the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance as
of such  date in  accordance  with paragraph  I  of this  Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be  repaid  on
each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling after the  date  of such  withdrawal  in amounts
determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying the  amount  of each  such  withdrawal  by  a
fraction,  the  numerator of which  is  the  original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the
table  in  paragraph  1  of this  Schedule  for  said  Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original
Installment  Share")  and  the  denominator  of which  is  the  sum  of all  remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable to  be  adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any amounts
referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this  Schedule,  to  which  a  Currency  Conversion
applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts of the  Loan  withdrawn within  two calendar months prior to any Principal
Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the  principal  amounts
payable  on any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as  withdrawn  and  outstanding
on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall
be  repayable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second
Principal  Payment  Date following  the  date of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this paragraph,  if at any
time the  Bank adopts a  due date billing  system  under  which  invoices  are  issued on

or  after  the  respective  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  provisions  of  such  sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  I  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon a  Currency
Conversion of all or any portion  of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance  to an Approved Currency,
the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is  repayable  on  any  Principal
Payment  Date occurring  during the Conversion Period,  shall be determined  by the Bank by
multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of  denomination  immediately  prior  to  the
Conversion  by  either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal  in  the
Approved  Currency  payable  by the  Bank  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating
to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if the  Bank  so  determines  in  accordance  with  the  Conversion
Guidelines,  the  exchange  rate component  of the  Screen  Rate.

If  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is  denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan  Currency,  the
provisions  of this Schedule  shall apply separately  to the amount  denominated in each  Loan
Currency,  so as to  produce  a separate amortization  schedule  for each  such  amount.

-10-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

"CONASAN"  means  Consejo  Nacional de  Seguridad Alimentaria y  Nutricional, the
Borrower's  National  Council  for  Food  Security  and  Nutritional,  created  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's  Legislative  Decree  No  32-2005,  dated  April  6,  2005,  duly  published  in the
Borrower's  official  gazette  on  May  2,  2005.

"Disciplinary  Commission"  means Junta Disciplinaria, a disciplinary  commission  created
pursuant to the Public Prosecution  Law, in  order to review allegations and impose  sanctions
to  prosecutors  in  accordance  with the  requirements of the Public  Prosecution  Law.

3. 

"Excluded  Expenditure"  means  any  expenditure:

(a) 

(b) 

for goods or services  supplied  under a contract  which  any national  or international
financing  institution or agency  other than the  Bank or the Association has financed
or agreed  to  finance,  or which  the  Bank  or the  Association  has  financed  or agreed
to  finance  under another  loan,  credit, or grant;

in  the  following  groups  or  sub-groups  of  the  Standard
for  goods  included 
International  Trade  Classification,  Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.3),  published  by  the
United  Nations in  Statistical  Papers,  Series M,  No.  34/Rev.3  (1986)  (the SITC),  or
any  successor  groups  or  subgroups  under  future  revisions  to  the  SITC,  as
designated  by the  Bank  by  notice to  the Borrower:

Group 
112 
121 

122 

525 

667 

718 

728 

897 

Sub-group 

718.7 

728.43 

897.3 

Description  of Item
Alcoholic  beverages
Tobacco,  un-manufactured,
tobacco  refuse
Tobacco,  manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco  substitutes)
Radioactive  and  associated
materials
Pearls,  precious  and
semiprecious  stones,
unworked  or worked
Nuclear reactors,  and parts
thereof;  fuel elements
(cartridges),  non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
Tobacco processing
machinery
Jewelry  of gold, silver or
platinum  group metals
(except watches  and watch
cases)  and  goldsmiths'  or

-11-

971 

silversmiths'  wares
(including  set gems)
Gold,  non-monetary
(excluding  gold ores  and
concentrates)

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

for  goods  intended  for  a  military  or  paramilitary  purpose  or  for  luxury
consumption;

for  environmentally  hazardous  goods,  the  manufacture,  use  or import  of which  is
prohibited  under the laws of the Borrower or international  agreements to which the
Borrower  is  a  party;

on account  of any payment prohibited by a  decision of the United Nations  Security
Council taken  under Chapter  VII  of the Charter  of the United  Nations;  and

with  respect  to  which  the  Bank  determines  that  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or
coercive  practices  were  engaged  in  by  representatives  of the  Borrower  or  other
recipient  of the  Loan  proceeds,  without  the  Borrower  (or  other  such  recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate  action satisfactory to the Bank to address  such
practices  when  they occur.

"Food  CCT"  means  Transferencia  Monetaria  Condicionada para Alimentos,  the
Borrower's  Conditional  Cash  Transfer  for Food  program,  created  pursuant to  Ministerial
Decree  (Acuerdo Ministerial) No. 02-2012  dated  May  7, 2012.

"General  Conditions"  means  the "International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
General  Conditions for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with the  modifications  set forth  in
Section  II  of this Appendix.

"High  Risk Client"  means  any client of a  Regulated  Entity that  has a high  risk of engaging
in  money  laundering  or corrupt  activities.

"MIDES"  means  Ministerio de  Desarrollo Social,  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Social
Development

"MINFIN"  means  Ministerio de  Finanzas Pfiblicas, the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Public
Finance.

"MSPAS" means Ministerio de SaludPtblicay Asistencia Social, the Borrower's  Ministry
of Public  Health  and  Social  Assistance.

"Procurement  Code"  means  the  Borrower's  Legislative  Decree  No.  57-92,  dated  May  10,
1992  on  public  acquisitions  (Ley  de  Contrataciones del Estado),  duly  published  in  the
Borrower's  official  gazette  on  October 27,  1992,  as  said law  has been  amended  to the date
of this Agreement.

"Program"  means  the  program  of actions,  objectives  and  policies  designed  to  promote
growth  and  achieve  sustainable  reductions  in  poverty  and  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

-12-

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

letter  dated  October  12,  2016  from  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank  declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment  to  the  execution  of the  Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from the  Bank  in
support of the  Program during  its  execution.

"Public  Ministry"  means  Ministerio Puiblico,  the  Borrower's  Public  Ministry  created
pursuant  to the  Public  Prosecution  Law.

"Public  Prosecution  Law" means the Borrower's  Legislative  Decree No. 40-94, dated May
2,  1994  duly published  in  the Borrower's  official gazette  on May  13,  1994  as said law  has
been  amended to  the date  of this Agreement.

"Related  Laws"  means  the  Borrower  Laws Nos.  19-2002,  6-91,  90-2005  and  2-70,  dated
April 29,  2002, January  9,  1991,  November 23,  2005  and April  9,  1970,  respectively,  duly
published  on  May  15,  2002,  April  3,  1991,  December  21,  2005  and  June  22,  1970,
respectively,  as  said  laws  have  been  amended  to  the  date of this  Agreement,  which  laws
regulate  banks  and  financial  groups,  taxpayer  rights  and  obligations,  citizen  registry,  and
commerce,  respectively.

"Regulated  Entity"  means any  entity,  including banks,  financial  institutions,  and offshore
entities,  set  forth  in  article  18  of the  Borrower's  Legislative  Decree  No.  67-2001,  dated
November  28,  2001,  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette  on  December  17,
2001  as amended to  the  date of this Agreement.

"SAT"  means  Superintendencia de  Administraci6n  Tributaria, the  Borrower's  Tax
Administration  Superintendence,  created  pursuant to  the  SAT  Organic  Law.

"SAT  Organic  Law"  means  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  1-98,  dated  January  12,  1998  duly
published  in the  Borrower's  official  gazette  on  February  13,  1998,  which  established  the
SAT  and  governs  its  operations,  as  said  law  has  been  amended  to  the  date  of  this
Agreement.

"Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  means  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  the  category
entitled  "Single  Withdrawal  Tranche"  in  the  table  set  forth  in  Part  B  of  Section  II  of
Schedule  I  to  this Agreement.

"State  Contractor"  means  any  individual  or legal  entity  that enters  into  a contract  above  a
threshold  of Q900,000  with  the  Borrower  or any  of the  entities  set forth  in  article  I  of the
Borrower's  Law  No.  57-92,  dated  October  5,  1992  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's
official  gazette  on  October  27,  1992,  as  said  law  has  been  amended  to  the  date  of this
Agreement,  for  purposes  of providing  services,  goods  and/or  works  to,  or  engaging  in
leasing  with, the  Borrower and/or said  entities.

20. 

"Superintendence  of  Bank's"  means  Superintendencia de  Bancos,  the  Borrower's
Superintendence  of Banks created  pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Legislative  Decree  No.  18-
2002,  dated  May  10,  2002,  duly  published  in  the  Borrower's  official  gazette  on  May  13,
2002,  as said  law has  been  amended to the  date of this Agreement.

-13-

Section  II.  Modifications  to the General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are hereby  modified  as  follows:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

In the  Table  of Contents, the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section  numbers
are modified to reflect the  modifications  set forth  in the  paragraphs  below.

The last sentence  of paragraph (a)  of Section 2.03  (relating to Applications  for Withdrawal)
is deleted  in  its entirety.

Sections  2.04 (Designated Accounts)  and  2.05  (Eligible Expenditures) are  deleted  in  their
entirety,  and the  remaining  Sections  in  Article II  are  renumbered  accordingly.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank a  front-end  fee  on the  Loan  amount  at  the  rate

(a) 
specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement (the "Front-end  Fee").

The Borrower  shall pay the  Bank a  commitment charge  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan
(b) 
Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the  "Commitment  Charge").  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date  of  the  Loan
Agreement to the  respective  dates on which amounts  are withdrawn  by  the Borrower  from
the  Loan  Account  or cancelled.  The Commitment  Charge  shall  be payable  semi-annually
in  arrears  on each  Payment Date."

Sections  5.01  (Project Execution Generally) and  5.09  (Financial Management; Financial
Statements; Audits) are  deleted  in their  entirety,  and  the  subsequent  Sections  in  Article  V
are  renumbered  accordingly.

Paragraph  (a)  of  Section  5.05  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above  and
relating to  Use of Goods,  Works and Services) is  deleted  in  its entirety.

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.06  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified to  read  as follows:

"Section  5.06.  Plans; Documents; Records

(c) 

The Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
bills, receipts  and  other  documents)  evidencing  expenditures  under  the  Loan until
two  years  after  the  Closing  Date.  The  Borrower  shall  enable  the  Bank's
representatives  to  examine  such  records."

-14-

9. 

10. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

8. 

Paragraph  (c)  of  Section  5.07  (renumbered  as  such  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  above)  is
modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  5.07.  Program Monitoring and Evaluation

(c) 

The Borrower  shall  prepare,  or  cause to  be  prepared,  and  furnish
... 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such  scope
and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on  the  execution  of the
Program,  the  performance  by  the  Loan  Parties  and  the  Bank  of their  respective
obligations  under the  Legal  Agreements  and  the  accomplishment  of the purposes
of the  Loan."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  references  to  Section  numbers  and  paragraphs  are
modified, as necessary,  to reflect the  modifications  set  forth  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with the  following  definition
of "Commitment  Charge",  and  renumbering  the remaining  paragraphs  accordingly:

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the  Loan

"19. 
Agreement  for the  purpose  of Section  3.01(b)."

11. 

Renumbered  paragraph  37  (originally  paragraph  36)  of  the  Appendix  ("Eligible
Expenditure")  is modified to read  as follows:

"Eligible  Expenditure"  means  any  use  to  which  the  Loan  is  put  in  support  of the

"37. 
Program,  other than to  finance  expenditures  excluded pursuant  to the  Loan Agreement."

Renumbered  paragraph  44  (originally  paragraph  43)  of  the  Appendix  ("Financial
Statements")  is deleted  in  its entirety.

In  paragraph  48  of the  Appendix,  the  definition  of  "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by
replacing  the  reference  to  Section 3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In paragraph  67  of the  Appendix, the  definition of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is modified to
read  as follows:

"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the  Bank
"67. 
pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions,  including (but  not  limited
to)  any  amount  of  the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance,  interest,  the  Front-end  Fee,  the
Commitment  Charge,  interest  at  the  Default  Interest  Rate  (if  any),  any  prepayment
premium,  any  transaction  fee  for a  Conversion  or  early  termination  of a  Conversion,  the
Variable  Spread  Fixing Charge  (if any),  any  premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of
an  Interest Rate  Cap or  Interest  Rate Collar,  and any  Unwinding  Amount  payable  by the
Borrower."

15. 

In paragraph  72  of the  Appendix,  the definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified by deleting
the  word  "is"  and  inserting  the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are"  after  the  word
"interest".

-15-

16. 

The defined term  "Project"  in paragraph  75  of the Appendix  is modified to read  "Program"
and  its definition  is  modified to read  as follows (and  all references  to "Project"  throughout
these  General  Conditions are deemed  to be references  to  "Program"):

"75. 
which  the  Loan  is  made."

"Program"  means  the  program  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement  in  support  of

