OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8795-IN

Loan Agreement

(Tamil Nadu  Rural  Transformation  Project)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8795-IN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date,  between  INDIA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The Borrower  and the  Bank hereby  agree as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as  defined  in the Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply  to
and form part  of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to  them in the General  Conditions  or in the Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred  million United
States  Dollars  ($100,000,000)  ("Loan"), as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from
time to  time through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the
project described  in  Schedule  I  to this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in accordance with Section

III  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  is  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan

amount.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge is equal to one quarter of one percent  (0.25%) per annum

on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05.  The  interest  rate  is the  Reference  Rate  plus  the Variable  Spread  or such  rate  as
may  apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of the  General
Conditions.

2.06.  The Payment Dates  are  March  15 and  September  15  in each year.

2.07.  The principal  amount of the Loan  shall be repaid  in accordance  with  Schedule 3 to

this Agreement.

2.08 

(a) 

If on  any  given day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (bXii)  and  (b)(iii)  of
this Section),  the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the rate of

-2-

one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure  Amount (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i) of this Section)  for
each  said  day ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall be payable semi-annually  in arrears  on each Payment Date.

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the meanings  set
forth  below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated Excess  Exposure Amount" means for each day during
which the  Total Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the total  amount  of said  excess;  and  (B) the
ratio  of all  (or,  if the  Bank  so determines,  a portion) of the  Loan
to  the aggregate  amount  of all (or the equivalent portions)  of the
loans  made by the Bank to  the Borrower  and to other  borrowers
guaranteed by  the  Borrower that  are  also  subject  to  an exposure
surcharge,  as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined from
time to  time by the Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower which,  if exceeded,
would subject  the Loan to the Exposure Surcharge,  as determined
from time to time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure to  the Borrower,  as  reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01.  The Borrower declares  its commitment to the objectives of the Project To this end,
the  Borrower  shall cause the Project to be  carried  out by the  Borrower's State  of
Tamil Nadu (Tamil Nadu or Project Implementing  Entity) through the Tamil Nadu
Rural  Transformation  Society  ("TNRTS"),  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
Article V of the General  Conditions,  Schedule  2  to this Agreement  and  the Project
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional  Event of Suspension  consists  of the  following:

(a) 

The  legal framework  (including the Memorandum  of Association and  the
Bylaws) for TNRTS has been amended, suspended,  abrogated, repealed or
waived  so as to  affect materially  and adversely the ability  of the TNRTS
to perform  any of its obligations  under the Project Agreement.

-3-

(b) 

The  legal  framework  (including  the Memorandum  of Association  and/or
the  Bylaws)  for  5  or more  of the  District  Societies  has been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as to  affect  materially  and
adversely  the  ability  of the  District  Societies  to  perform  any  of their
obligations  under the District Participating  Agreement.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Effectiveness Deadline  is the date  ninety (90)  days after the Signature  Date.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01.  The Borrower's Representative  is  any  of the  following officials  acting  severally:
the  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,  Director,  Deputy  Secretary,
or  Under  Secretary  of the  Department  of Economic  Affairs  of the  Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.

6.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the Borrower's  address is:

Secretary
Department  of Economic  Affairs
Ministry  of Finance
Government  of India
North  Block
New  Delbi I10  001, India;  and

(b) 

the Borrower's  Electronic  Address is:

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

91-11-23092611 

secy-dea@nic.in

6.03. 

For purposes of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Bank's address  is:

International Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America;  and

(b) 

the Bank's Electronic Address  is:

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

1-202-477-6391 

jahmad@worldbankorg

AGREED  as of the  Signature  Date.

-4-

INDIA

By

By

Date:

Authorized Representative

Name:  SA%4,r 

*x4rrvt~,~ni~

Title: 

/AJlScr$  y

Date:  -~~4*j,5  ao.Avoq'

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authorized Representative

Name:  dIAj*,,& 
Title:  4 %,Arnax  A1,.ec*z#e.,,  IAJ,A

k*vPa-e 

A-A4A-

-5-

SCHEDULE  I

Project Description

The  objective of the Project  is  to  promote rural  enterprises, access  to  finance  and

employment  opportunities  in selected blocks  of Tamil Nadu.

The Project  consists  of the following parts:

Component  I.  Rural Enterprise Ecosystem  Develooment

1.(a) 

Inclusive  Strategic Investment Analytics  and  Planning

Carrying out a set of studies,  diagnostics,  investment analysis  and planning  of the
business  ecosystem  in the Project  areas,  identifying and prioritizing  sectors,  sub-
sectors, and commodities for project investments,  including,  inter alia: (i) a district
diagnostic study  (DDS)  to identify  and prioritize  major  sectors,  sub-sectors,  and
commodities for enterprise promotion;  (ii)  value-chain  analysis  (VCA)  studies for
prioritized commodities and sub-sectors, to inform enterprise promotion strategies;
and  (iii)  participatory  growth  plans  (PGPs)  facilitated  by  the District,  Block  and
MaKaMai  teams  at  the  village,  Block,  and  District  levels.  These  activities  will
involve  preparing  Village  Investment  Plans  (VIPs),  Block  Investment  Plans
(BIPs), District Investment Plans (DIPs)  and  State Investment Plans (SIPs).

L.(b)  Enterprise  Development Support Services

Providing  business development  support  to  producer  collectives (PCs)  and  small
enterprises  under  the  Project  through  community-led  service  delivery  by
MaKaMai(s)  and  one stop facilities  (OSFs), including,  inter alia: scope enterprise
promotion;  business  conceptualization;  business  plan  development;  support  to
initiate  the  business;  facilitation support  to access  required  finance,  technology,
skills,  licenses and other  regulation compliances;  market intelligence,  information
and  linkages;  and mentoring.

1.(c)  Enterprise Promotion, Value  Chain Strengthening and Partnerships:

(i) 

Promoting  individual  enterprises  (nano,  micro  and  small  enterprises  -
NMSEs)  engaged  in  prioritized  sub-sectoral  value-chain  activities  and
enhancing  their  capacity  through,  inter alia:  (a)  identifying  a  set  of
aspiring  entrepreneurs;  (b)  providing  technical  and business development
services through  OSFs to develop  business plans; and (c) linking selected
enterprises  to financial  institutions  for business  plan  financing  and  other
financial  services.

-6-

(ii) 

Promoting  collective  enterprises  (enterprise  groups  (EGs),  producer
groups  (PGs),  and  PCs)  engaged  in  prioritized  sub-sectoral  value-chain
activities and enhancing their capacity  through, inter alia: (a) mobilization
of producers  (primarily  women  SHG  members),  involved  in  a  specific
commodity  and  sub-sector  clusters  into  PGs  or  EGs;  (b)  providing
technical  assistance  and  hand-holding  by  technical  support  agencies,
providing  customized  training  for  group  management,  production  and
quality  enhancement,  value-addition,  franchise  management,  business
plan  development,  planning  and  monitoring;  and  (c)  development  of
market integration mechanisms.

(iii) 

Providing  Start-Up  Fund  Grants  to  PGs,  EGs,  and  PCs  to  finance
collective  procurement,  productive  infrastructure,  and/or their day-to-day
operations and  marketing.

Component 2. Enterprise Business  Plan Financin

2.(a)  Facilitating Business  Plan Financing

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

Providing  Matching  Grants  to  Beneficiaries  for  the  implementation  of
Business  Plans.

Implementing  a technical  assistance  program  for the PFIs involved in  the
Project through hands-on training in, inter alia, practical  application  of the
Matching  Grants,  assessment  and  effectiveness  of Business  Plans,  and
mitigation of the related risks.

2.(b) 

Innovation Promotion

Supporting  the  design,  promotion,  and  implementation  of transformational  ideas
that use technology,  innovation, and partnerships to tackle development  challenges
in Tamil  Nadu, including:

the  Tamil  Nadu  Rural  Transformation  Marketplace,  a  platform  to  be
to  identify  and  showcase
developed  and  administered  by  TNRTS 
innovations  with the  potential  to impact rural  economic  growth  in Tamil
Nadu such as scalable  models and innovative  solutions  for the poor, and

Induced  thematic  innovations  to  be  piloted  with  specific  targets  (with
initiatives,  women  enterprise,  and  local
focus  on  green  enterprise 
innovations).

-7-

Component 3: Skills  and  Job Opportunitles

3.(a) 

Pre- and Post-Training Services to Enhance Employment Outcomes

Providing  pre-  and  post-training  services  to  poor households'  youth, including,
inter  alia:  identification  and  mobilization  of  target  youth,  development  of
information  packages  on  available  trainings  and  training  schedules,  and  hand-
holding services  in destination  areas.

3.(b)  Community-based  Training and  Skilling Provision

Establishing community skills  schools delivering  demand-based training services
at the  village  level, increasing  access  to  training  for the  poor, women,  and  other
marginalized  groups.

3.(c)  Entrepreneurship  Development

Enhancing  the skills of service providers,  entrepreneurs,  and producer households
in focus  value chains,  leading to improved income and employment  outcomes.

Comonent 4: Project Manauemept.  Result  Monitoria  and Implementation
Support Switems

4.(a) 

Implementation  Support Systems

Providing  support  services  and  systems  for  Project  administration,  financial
management,  procurement,  safeguards management, human  resource management
and  ICT.

4.(b)  Monitoring, Evaluation,  and Grievance Redress

(i) 

(ii) 

Providing support to monitoring and evaluation activities, including, inter-
alia:  (A)  monitoring of the Project  activities'  progress;  (B)  monitoring of
(D)
Project  processes; 
participatory  monitoring  and  evaluation  activities;  (E)  thematic  studies
and  case studies;  and (F) impact  evaluation.

(C)  monitoring  of  intermediate  outcomes; 

Establishing  grievance  redress  mechanisms  for  the  Project,  including,
inter-alia: online  e-services  and  offline/manual  services,  an  operating
procedure  for the handling of unresolved  grievances, and a single database
to monitor the performance of DPMUs.

-g-

4.(c) 

Information Communication  and Technology  (ICT)

Carrying  out  ICT-based  and  digital  solutions  for planning,  data  analytics,  results
monitoring,  business  processes,  decision support  systems, and  reporting.

4.(d)  Knowledge,  Communication, and Learning  Systems

(i) 

(ii) 

Gathering  and  disseminating  the  knowledge  generated  in  the  Project  to
reach  out to external  and internal  audiences;  and

carrying  out  short  process  studies,  establishing  beneficiary  feedback
systems,  and  implementing  rapid  surveys  to  get  information  on  specific
aspects  that  needs  Project  management  attention  for  regular  decision
making.

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section 

.

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

1. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

1. 

To facilitate the carrying out of the  Project,  the Borrower shall  make the  proceeds
of the  Loan available  to  Tamil Nadu in  accordance  with the  Borrower's standard
arrangements  for developmental  assistance to the States of India.

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  in  the event that any  provision  of this Agreement
were  to  be  found  inconsistent  with  the  Borrower's  standard  arrangements  for
development  assistance  to  the  States  of India,  the  provisions  of this  Agreement
shall  govern.

The  Borrower  shall  at  all times  protect  its  own  interests  and  the  interests  of the
Bank to accomplish  the purposes of the  Loan.

Section 11. 

Project Monitoriny-  Reportine and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower shall cause Tamil  Nadu to  fumish to the Bank each Project  Report
not later than 45 days after the end of each  calendar quarter,  covering the calendar
quarter.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  Tamil  Nadu to  carry  out  a comprehensive  mid-term
Project review  under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to the  Bank,  and  funish to
the Bank  a mid-term  Project progress report,  satisfactory to the  Bank by no later
than  the  second  quarter  of the  fourth  calendar  year  of  implementation  counted
from  the Effective Date.

Section  m.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article  II  of the  General Conditions and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  and  (b)  pay:  (i)  the  Front-end  Fee  and  (ii)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  premium;  in  the  amount  allocated,  if applicable,  up  to  the
percentage  set forth against  each  category of the following table:

- 10  -

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

1.(a)  Goods,  works,  non-
consulting  services,  consulting 
services,  Operating  Costs,
Training  and  Workshops  for 
the Project

75,210,000

70%

L.(b)  Start  Up  Fund  Grants 

9,110,000

(2)  Matching  Grants  under 
Component II  of the Project

15,430,000 

70%

(3)  Front-end Fee 

250,000 

(4) Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar  premium 

0 

_____________ 

___________General 

TOTAL AMOUNT  -

100,000,000 

Amount payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of
the General  Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant  to
Section  4.05(c)  of  the
Conditions
Geneal_ondiion

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  I  above,  no  withdrawal  shall  be

2. 
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  twenty  million
dollars  (US$  20,000,000)  may be made for payments made on or after July
1,  2017,  for Eligible  Expenditures  under sub-Categories  1.  (a)  and  1.  (b)
of the Project; or

for payments made  under Category  (2)  unless  Tamil  Nadu has submitted
evidence acceptable  to the Bank confirming that:  (i) the  Fund Manager  for
the Matching Grants has been hired in a manner, under terms  of reference,
and  with  experience  and  qualifications  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and  (ii)
Tamil  Nadu has  adopted  the Matching  Grants  Manual,  in  a manner  and
substance satisfactory to the Bank and endorsed by the TNRTS'  Executive
Committee.

3. 

The  closing Date is November  30,  2023.

SCHEDULE  3

The following table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment  Dates of the Loan and  the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Commitment Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date 
15Ma2023 
Sp2023 
I 5Mar2024 
Sep24 
1SMar2025 
15Sep2025 
15Mar2026 
15Sep2026 
15Mar2027 
15Sep2027 
15Mar2028 
15sep2028 
15Mar2O29 
15Sep2029 
15Ma030 
15Sep2030 
15Mur2031 
15ep2031 
15Mar2032 
MSep2032 
tSMar2033 
15S2033 
15Mar2034 
15Sp2034 
15Mar2035 
15p2035 
15Ma2036 
l5cp2036 
15Mar2037 
ISp2037 
15Mas238 
15Sep2038 
15Ma2039 
15Sep2039 
15Mar2040 
2
040 
15Sep
15Mar2041 
15S,p2041 
15Mer2042 
15Sep2042 
15Mar2043 
15Sep2043 
15Mar2044 
SeDp2044 
ISMar2O45 
15S2045 
15Mar2046 

Installment Share
1.03000
1.06000
1.08000
1.11000
1.14000
1.17000
1.19000
1.22000
1.26000
1.29000
1.32000
1.35000
1.39000
1.42000
1.46000
1.49000
1.53000
1.57000
1.61000
1.65000
1.69000
1.73000
1.77000
1.82000
1.86000
1.91000
1.96000
2.01000
2.06000
2.11000
2.16000
2.22000
2.27000
2.33000
2.39000
2.45000
2.51000
2.57000
263000
2.70000
2.77000
2.84000
2.91000
2.98000
3.05000
3.13000
3.21000

' 

12

(cid:20) s 
(cid:20) sм
l5 

047 

з .г 9г
з .з
2.%WO

о
а
ь
ю
о
(cid:20)
т
э
а
о
о
- 13-

APPENDIX

Section  1. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

to  be  set  up  by  the  Project
"Advisory  Committee"  means  the  committee 
Implementing  Entity  to  provide  advice  to  the  GB  &  EC,  pursuant  to  Section
I.A.L(c)  of the  Schedule to the Project Agreement  and  the Project  Irnplementation
Plan.
"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means, for purposes of paragraph 5  of the  Appendix
to the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and Combating  Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans  and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15,  2006 and revised  in January  2011  and  as of July  1, 2016.

"Beneficiary"  means:  (i)  an  eligible  individual  entrepreneur,  PC,  EG,  PG,
beriefitting from Start-Up Fund Grants; and/or (ii) eligible collective organizations,
EGs, or NMSEs, benefitting  from Matching Grants.
"Block" means the  administrative  sub-division  of a District in Tamil Nadu.
"Block  Investment  Plans"  and the  acronym  "BIPs"  mean  the  plans comprised  of
the consolidated  VIPs (as defined  hereinafter)  for each Block, and approved by the
DPMU  of their respective  District.
"Block Project  Management  Unit"  and  the  acronym  "BPMU'  means  each  unit
established  within  each  block  level  for  assisting  in  carrying  out  the  Project
activities  in  such  block  consisting  of  a  sub-group  of  designated  staff  of  the
respective  District Society.
"Business  Plan"  means:  (i)  in  the  case  of Matching  Grants,  a plan  prepared  by
collective  organizations,  EGs  or NMSEs  in accordance  with  the procedures  and
formats prescribed  in  the Matching Grants Manual  and  approved  by the  PF1  and
DPMU[s;  and  (ii) in the can of Start Up  Fund Grants,  a plan  prepared by a PC or
an  EG  or  PG  in  accordance  with  die  procedures  and  formats prescribed  in  the
Prcject Implementation  Plan and approved  by the DPMUs.
"Category"  means a  category set forth  in the table  in  Section III. I  of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement
-CPs"  means community professionals  identified and retained by  the MaKaMai(s)
involved  in activities  at the Block level,  such  as: (a)  forming  and  strengthening  of
PGs;  (b)  identifying  of  target  beneficiaries;  (c)  ensuring  inclusion  into  group
enterprises;  (d)  identifying  youth  for skilling;  and  (e)  community-level  financial
management.

-14-

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

"Co-Financing  Cooperation  Agreements"  means,  collectively, 
the  written
agreements to  be  entered by and  between  the  Fund Manager  and  each  of the PFIs
screened  and  pre-selected  as prospective/eligible  co-financiers  of Business  Plans,
and  endorsed by the  TNRTS'  Executive  Committee,  pursuant  to Section  I.E.1  of
the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement;  as  such  agreements  may  be  revised,
amended  or supplemented from time  to time with  the prior written  concurrence  of
the  Bank.

"DDS" means the  district diagnostic  study provided for  in Component  1.  (a) (i)  of
Schedule  I  to this Agreement.

"District" means  any of the  twenty-six (26)  administrative  sub-divisions  of Tamil
Nadu  benefitting  from  the  activities  wnder  the  Project  as  agreed  with  between
Tamil Nadu and  the Bank,  as well  as any other District  incorporated  from time  to
time to the Project  subject  to the prior written  concurrence of the  Bank.

"District  Investment  Plans" and the acronym "DIPs" mean  the plans  comprised of
the  consolidated  BIPs  for  each  District,  as  endorsed  by  the  relevant  line
departments and  approved by the District  Society.

"District Project Management  Unit" or "DPMU" means the unit established within
each District  Society  for assisting  in  the  carrying  out  of the  Project  activities  in
such district.

"District  Society"  means  a  society  established  or  to  be  established  in  Project
districts, and registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act,  1975, (as
amended) to operate  in accordance  to its Memorandum  of Association  and Bylaws
in the State of Tamil  Nadu.

"District Participating Agreement"  means an agreement to be entered  into between
the  TNRTS  and  a  District  Society  setting  up  the  terms  of conditions  of their
participation  in  the  implementation  of  Project  activities,  in  accordance  with
Section  I.A.2  (b)  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  and  the  Project
Implementation  Plan.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of the
Project,  have experienced  or would experience  direct economic and social impacts
caused  by-  (a)  the  involuntary  taking of land, resulting in:  (i) relocation  or loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or
means  of livelihood,  whether  or not  such persons  must move  to another  location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction  of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas,  resulting in  adverse  impact  on the livelihoods  of such persons.

- 15  -

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

"EGs" means  enterprises  groups, a  collective  of individuals organized around
a common economic  activity registered  as a society or such  other registered  body
pursuant to the  applicable law of Project  Implementing Entity/the  Borrower.
"ESMF"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  environmental  and  social
management  framework  dated May  18,  2017  and disclosed  by  the Bank's portal
on June  12,  2017,  setting  forth  the:  (i)  policy  framework,  principles,  standards,
processes  and institutional  arrangements to be applied to assess potential  adverse
environmental  impacts  associated  with  Project  activities  and the  ways  to avoid,
minimize,  mitigate  or  offset  them,  including  public  consultation,  disclosure  and
reporting;  and  (ii)  social  impact  assessments  and  mitigation  procedures  and
arrangements  and grievance  redress  procedures  for assessing  and addressing  any
Project social impacts;  as such framework may be amended from time to time with
the prior concurrence of the  Bank.
"FM  Manual"  means  the  TNRTS's  "Financial  Management  Manual",  dated
September  28,  2017, setting forth the operating  procedures  for the carrying  out of
the  financial management  requirements  under the Project,  including inter alia: (i)
accounting  principles,  practices,  methods  and  procedures;  (ii)  budgeting  and
planning; (iii)  fund flow mechanism, internal control and  financing reporting; and
(iv) audit arrangements;  as such  manual may  be amended from time to time with
the prior concurrence  of the  Bank.
"Fund Manager"  means a financial  institution or a  firm to be selected and hired by
TNRTS  to manage  the  transactions related to the Matching Grants, liaise with the
PFIs  for the provision of said grants to selected  Beneficiaries,  and  liaise with the
SPMU  for the respective reporting.
"GB  & EC" means the  governing body  and executive  committee  to be  set up  by
the  Project Implementing Entity pursuant to  Section  LA.  1(b) of Schedule  2 to the
Project Agreement  and the Project Implementation Plan.
"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Development  General  Conditions 
Financing",  dated July  14,  2017.

"GoTN"  means  the govenment,of Tamil Nadu.
"HR  Manual"  means  the  TNRTS'  human  resources  manual,  setting  forth  the
guidelines and processes for the carrying out of the human resources activities such
as  recruitment,  on-boarding,  capacity  development  under  the  Project,  as  such
manual may be amended  from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
"ICT"  means  information  and communication  technologies.

- 16  -

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

"MaKaMai"  means, in Tamil Nadu's  local language, a community resource center
registered  under  the  Tamil  Nadu  Societies  Act,  operating  at  the  District  and/or
Block  levels  with  the  objective  to  nurture  and  grow  village  level  community
institutions.

"Matching Grant" means  a grant awarded  by the  Fund Manager  through the PFI to
an eligible  Beneficiary,  out  of the proceeds  of the Loan,  for the financing  of the
Beneficiary's  Business  Plan,  pursuant  to  Section  E  of the Schedule  to the Project
Agreement  and  the  selection  criteria  and  procedures  set  forth  in  the  Matching
Grants  Manual.

"Memorandum  of  Association  and  Bylaws"  means  the  constitutive  documents
governing  the rules  and procedures  for the  management  and the functioning  of the
TNRTS  and each  District Society pursuant  to Tamil Nadu's  legislation.

"Matching  Grants  Manual"  means  the  manual,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  be
adopted  by  TNRTS,  setting  forth,  inter alia, the  criteria  for the  selection  of the
PFIs,  the  terms  and  conditions  for selection of the  Beneficiaries,  as  well as  the
necessary  formats  for  application  for  Matching  Grants,  safeguard  requirements,
and  other necessary  guidelines for the Matching  Grants'  implementation.

"MSMEs"  means  micro,  small  and medium  enterprises, as  identified pursuant  to
the criteria and thresholds set out in  the Project Implementation  Plan.

"NMSEs"  means  nano, micro  and  small enterprises  as  identified pursuant  to the
criteria and  thresholds  set out  in the Project Implementation  Plan.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  incremental  expenditures
incurred  by TNRTS  on  account  of Project  implementation,  including,  inter alia:
costs  of  operation,  rent  and  maintenance  of  offices,  communication  costs,
incremental  staff salaries (including government staff on deputation to the Project),
training,  and  travel  allowances  of Project  staff related  to Project  implementation,
coordination,  and  monitoring  but  excluding  the  salaries  of civil  servants  of the
Borrower.

"OSFs"  means  one-stop-facilities  to  be  established  at  Block  level  to  provide
business  advisory/development  services to rural  entrepreneurs  and enterprises  for
business  facilitation  and/or incubation.

"Participating  Financial  Institutions" and  the acronym  "PFIs"  mean the  financial
institutions selected for the implementation  of the Matching Grants pursuant to the
eligibility  criteria  set out  in the Matching  Grants Manual.

"PFI  Loan"  means  the  financing  to  be  provided  by  PFIs  which  includes  the
Matching  Grant.

-17-

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

"PFI  Loan  Agreement"  means  each  of  the  legal  agreements  to  be  entered  into
between  a  PFI  and  a  Beneficiary  of the  MGP  pursuant  to  Section  I.E1  of the
Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  for purposes  of providing  financing  to  their
respective Business  Plan.
"PC" means  a producer  collective  being a collective  of PGs within  each  District
registered  as a society or such other registered body pursuant to the applicable  law
of Project Implementing Entity/the Borrower.

"PG" mean  a  producer  group  being  a  group  of individuals  organized  around  a
common economic  activity,  a cooperative  thereof and/or a registered body formed
for the purpose of enhancing business production (agriculture and non-agriculture)
and  access to services and markets.

"PGPs"  means  the  participatory  growth  plans  provided  for  under  Component
1. (a)(iii) of Schedule  1  to this Agreement.

"Procurement  Manual"  means  the  TNRTS's  manual  dated  September  28,  2017,
for purposes of the Project,  which provides detailed  guidance  on the procurement
procedures  to be  followed  at the  state,  District,  Block, and community  level  and
the preparation  of bidding  documents;  as such  manual may be amended from time
to time with the prior concurrence  of the Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes of paragraph  85 of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for
Borrowers under Investment Project  Financing", dated July  1,  2016.

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  of even date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be  amended  from
time  to time,  and such term includes all  schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project  Agreement.

"Project  Implementing Entity" means the Borrower's State of Tamil Nadu.
"Project Implementation  Plan"  means  the implementation plan of the TNRTS for
the  Project  dated  September  28,  2017,  including  the  time-bound  action  plans,
procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank for Project implementation (including
the criteria  for the selection of Districts under the Project and the guidelines  for the
disbursal of the  Start Up  Fund Grants) as the same  may amended from time to time
with the prior concurrence  of the Bank.
"Safeguard  Documents"  means,  collectively,  the ESMF,  the TDP,  as well  as  any
other plans and documents prepared or to be prepared, pursuant  to Section LC.2 of
Schedule  to the Project  Agreement.

-18-

47. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

56. 

"SHGs"  means  self-help groups  within a community,  generally consisting  of 12-
19 women members,  engaged  in thrift,  credit and  economic  activities.

"Signature  Date"  means the latest of the two dates on which the  Borrower and the
Bank signed  this  Agreement  and  such definition  applies  to all  references  to  "the
date of the Loan Agreement"  in  the  General  Conditions.

"State  Investment  Plan" and  the acronym  "SIP" mean  the  investment plan  for the
State of Tamil Nadu, comprising the consolidated DIPs.

"State  Project  Management  Unit"  and  the  acronym  "SPMU"  mean  the  unit
established within the TNRTS  for the  carrying out of Project activities pursuant to
Section I.A.1.(d)  of the Schedule  to the Project  Agreement.

"Start-Up  Fund Grant"  means  the  grant  awarded  by  the  DPMUs  to  an  eligible
Beneficiary,  out of the proceeds  of the Loan, for the financing of the Beneficiary's
Business  Plans, pursuant  to  Section D  of the  Schedule to  the  Project  Agreement
and the selection  criteria  and  procedures  contemplated  in the  guidelines  for Start
Up  Fund  Grants set forth in  the Project Implementation  Plan.

"Start-Up  Fund  Grant  Agreement"  means  the  legal  agreement  to be  entered into
between  the  DPMU  and  a Beneficiary,  pursuant  to  Section  LD.2  of the  Schedule
for  the
to  the  Project  Agreement, 
implementation  of Business  Plans.

for  purposes  of  providing 

financing 

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  committee  to  be  established  by  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  for purposes  of providing  policy guidance  and oversight for
the  Project  implementation,  pursuant  to  Section  1.A.I.(a)  of Schedule  2  to  the
Project  Agreement.

"Tamil  Nadu" means the  State  of Tamil  Nadu, which  is the  Project  Implementing
Entity  as set out in the Project  Agreement.

"Tamil  Nadu  Rural Transformation  Society"  and  the acronym "TNRTS"  mean the
society  established  under the Tamil Nadu Department  of Rural  Development  and
Panchayati  Raj  approved  by Government  Orders  No.  73  and  74  dated  June  30,
2017,  and  which  operates  according  to  its  constitutive  documents  including  its
Memorandum  of Association  and Bylaws.

"Training  and  Workshops"  means  the  reasonable  cost  of trainings,  seminars,
workshops, conferences and study tours, conducted in the territory of the  Borrower
or overseas  and  subject  to the  Bank's prior agreement,  organized  or  attended  by
the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  staff  and/or  the  staff of the  TNRTS,  SPMU,
DPMUs, BPMUs, the MaKaMais,  PFIs and the Fund Manager-,  all in direct relation
to  the  Project;  which  costs  may  include,  inter alia:  (a)  the  fees  of  training

-19-

57. 

58. 

institutions and courses;  (b) domestic  and  international travel costs, lodging  costs,
and  subsistence/per diem  allowances  both  for trainers and  trainees;  (c) the  rental
of training  facilities;  and  (d)  preparation,  purchase  or  reproduction  of training
materials.

"Tribal  Development  Plan"  and  the  acronym  "TDP"  mean  each  tribal  people's
development  plan to be prepared  under the Project, setting forth  the principles  and
procedures  designed  to  ensure  meaningful  consultation  with,  and  informed
participation  of,  Tribal  Groups  and  their  communities  in  the  design  and
implementation  of the  Project  activities,  as  well  as  their participation  in  the
envisioned culturally  appropriate  and  socially  inclusive benefits  thereof  as such
plans may be  amended  from time  to time with  the prior concurrence  of the Bank

"Tribal  Groups"  means  any  distinct, vulnerable,  social  and  cultural  group  within
the territory  of the Project Implementing Entity, that:  (i) self-identifies  as such and
claims,  and  is recognized  by others  as, having  a distinguishable  cultural  identity;
(ii)  has  collective  attachment  to  geographically  distinct  habits  or  ancestral
territories  in the  Project  area,  and  to  the  natural  resources  in  these  habitat  and
territories;  (iii)  has customary  cultural, economic,  social  and political  institutions
that  are separate  from  those  of the dominant  society and  culture;  and  (iv) has  an
indigenous  language,  often  different  from the  official  language  of the  Borrower
and/or the Project Implementing  Entity.

59. 

"Village  Investment  Plans" and  the  acronym  "VIPs" mean  the  PGPs prepared  by
a village/community  and validated  at the Block  level by the BPMU.

