OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN NUMBER  8829-tN

Loan Agreement

(Maharashtra  Project  on Climate Resilient Agriculture  (PoCRA)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8829-IN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

Agreement  dated  as  of the  Signature  Date,  between  INDIA  ("Borrower")  and
INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The  Borrower and  the  Bank hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as  defined  in  the Appendix  to  this Agreement)  apply  to
and  form  part of this Agreement

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms  used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed  to them  in the  General Conditions  or in the  Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE I  - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank  agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower  the  amount of four hundred  and twenty
million  United  States  Dollars  ($420,000,000)  ("Loan"),  as  such  amount  may be
converted from  time to  time through  a Currency  Conversion ("Loan"),  to assist in
financing the  project described  in Schedule  1  to this Agreement ("Project").

2.02.  The  Borrower may withdraw the proceeds  of the  Loan in  accordance  with Section

.111  of Schedule 2  to this  Agreement.

2.03.  The  Front-end  Fee  is  equal  to  one  quarter  of one  percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan

amount.

2.04.  The  Commitment Charge is equal to one  quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum

on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The  interest  rate  is  the  Reference  Rate plus  the  Variable  Spread  or  such  rate as
may  apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06.  The  Payment  Dates are  May  15 and November  15 in each year.

2.07.  The principal amount  of the Loan shall be  repaid in accordance  with  Schedule 3 to

this Agreement.

2.08 

(a) 

If on any given day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (bXii)  and  (bXiii)  of
this  Section), the Borrower shall pay to the  Bank a surcharge  at the  rate  of

-2-

one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure  Amount (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph (bXi)  of this  Section)  for
each  said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall be payable  semi-annually  in arrears on each Payment  Date.

(b) 

For purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth  below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated Excess  Exposure  Amount"  means  for each day during
which  the Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total  amount  of said excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio of all (or, if the Bank  so  determines,  a  portion) of the Loan
to  the  aggregate  amount of all (or  the equivalent portions)  of the
loans  made  by the Bank  to  the Borrower  and  to other borrowers
guaranteed  by  the  Borrower  that are  also subject to  an  exposure
surcharge, as said excess and ratio are reasonably determined  from
time to time  by the Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if exceeded,
would subject the Loan to the Exposure  Surcharge, as determined
from  time to time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure to the  Borrower,  as reasonably determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE M - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares its commitment  to the objective  of the Project. To this end,
the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project to be carried  out by the Borrower's  State  of
Maharashtra (Project  Implementing Entity), in accordance with the  provisions of
Article V of the General  Conditions, Schedule 2  to this Agreement  and the Project
Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01. 

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90)  days after the Signature  Date.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  any of the following officials acting severally:
The Secretary, Additional  Secretary, Joint  Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary,
or  Under  Secretary  of the  Department  of Economic  Affairs  of the  Borrower's
Ministry of Finance.

5.02. 

For purposes of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

-3-

(a) 

the Borrower's  address  is:

Secretary
Department  of Economic Affairs
Ministry  of Finance
Government  of India
North  Block
New  Delhi  110 001,  India;  and

(b) 

the  Borrower's  Electronic Address  is:

Facsimile:

+91-11-23095071

E-mail:

jsmi-dea@nic.in

5.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Bank's address is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States of America;  and

(b) 

the  Bank's Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile:

+1-202-477-6391

AGREED  as of the  Signature  Date.

-4-

INDIA

By

Aut 

d Representative

Name:  SA"f40t  4A  A4  Ocf-

Title: 

ol&xr

Date:  A PA- 

/ 

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Title: &jA 

Date:  A1

Authorized  Representative

Name:__r&_^_XA."_4a________t

te 

,  1eo=A

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the Project  is  to  enhance  climate  resilience  and  profitability  of

smallholder  farming  systems in selected  districts  of Maharashtra.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

Part A. 

Promoting Climate-resilient Agricultural  Systems

A. 1. 

A.2. 

A.3. 

Supporting  the  development  of:  (i)  evidence-based  Mini  Watershed Plans  (based
on a  participatory  micro  planning process  and  water  budgeting);  and (ii)  Cluster
Development and  Investment  Plans  (CDPs)  to  identify  a  set of priority  activities
to  be carried out under the  Project.

Promoting  the  transfer  of on-farm  climate  resilient  technologies  and  agronomic
practices  identified  in  the  Cluster  Development  and  Investment  Plans  through,
inter alia: (i)  the  design  and  implementation  of Farmer  Field  Schools  (FFS)  to
promote  the  demonstration  of  climate-resilient  varieties  of  field  crops;  (ii)  the
provision of matching grants  to eligible Individual Farmers to enable them to adopt
said  technologies and  practices  ("Individual  Farmer  Matching  Grants");  and  (iii)
the  design  and  implementation  of knowledge  sharing  and  learning  activities  on
climate-resilient  agricultural  technologies  for  stakeholders  from  villages  in  the
selected  districts.

Supporting  development  of catchment  areas  to  enhance  water  management  and
improve dryland  frmning through, inter alia: (i) the planning, technical  design, and
development of common  and  individual  assets  for longer term  impact  on  climate
resilience;  (ii)  the carrying  out of investments,  including  treatment  of catchment
areas  and  drainage lines, rejuvenation  of existing community-based  and individual
water  harvesting  structures/construction  of new  ones, and  construction  of aquifer
recharge  structures;  and (iii) the provision  of matching grants to eligible  Individual
Farmers  to strengthen  climate  resilience  ("Individual Farmer  Matching Grants").

Part B. 

Post-Harvest Mansement  and Value  Chain Promotion

B. 1. 

Supporting:  (i)  the  development  of a  Capacity  Enhancement  Needs  Assessment
(CENA) 
that  includes  a  comprehensive  diagnostic  as  well  as  a  capacity
development  program  for  Farmer  Producer  Organizations  (FPOs) 
to  be
implemented  under  the  Project;  and  (ii)  the  implementation  of  a  Capacity
Development  and  Coaching  Program  (CDC)  specially  focused  on  FPOs  to  meet
the needs  identified  in the  CENA.

-6-

B.2. 

B.3. 

C. I. 

C.2. 

C.3. 

Strengthening  emerging  value  chains  for  climate-resilient  commodities,  through
inter alia: the provision  of matching  grants to  FPOs ("FPO Matching  Grants")  to
implement selected  value chain  Subprojects,  and/or to  establish FPO-run custom-
hiring  centers  (CHCs) for agricultural  machinery.

Improving the performance  of the supply chain  for climate-resilient  seeds, through
inter alia: (i)  establishing  seed  hubs for the  production,  processing,  certification,
and  short-term storage of said seeds in strategic  locations;  (ii) promoting business-
oriented  partnerships  among  various  stakeholders,  including  from  the  private
sector,  to ensure  sustainability  of Project  investments  in  the  seeds  supply  chain;
and  (iii)  the provisions of FPO  Matching  Grants  and  Individual  Farmer Matching
Grants  for  the  engagement  in  seed  production  and  seed  multiplication  in  a
sustainable  and  financially  viable way.

Part C. 

Institutiopal  -Develgpment.  Knowledge  and  Policies  for  a  Climate-
Resilient  Arriculture

the  sustainability  and 

Supporting 
institutional  capacity  development  of
stakeholders  involved  in  activities  supported  by  the  Project,  from  the  central  to
local  level,  through  inter alia: (i)  the  updating  of crop  production  contingency
plans;  (ii)  the  revision  of  Strategic  Research  and  Extension  Plans  (SREPs)  to
mainstream  the  climate  resilience  agenda;  (iii)  the  implementation  of an  annual
Knowledge  Sharing  and  Learning  Plan  (KSLP)  for  all  out-of-state'  and
international  training activities (including exposure visits and study tours); and (iv)
the  design  and  implementation  of a  comprehensive  integrated  ICT  platform  to
support the Project's  knowledge agenda as well as some core Project management
functions.

feasibility 

Supporting 
and
operationalization  of the Maharashtra  Climate Innovation Center (CIC)  to support
local  private  sector  capacity  focused  on  emerging  technologies  and  business
models.

studies,  business  plans,  and  establishment 

Generating and  disseminating cutting-edge knowledge  on issues related  to climate-
resilient  agriculture and  providing analytical  underpinnings  to improve  the policy
and  strategy  framework  to enhance  resilience  in the  agri-food  systems  in the  State
of Maharashtra,  through  inter alia: (i)  the development  of state-of-the  art climate
and  agro-hydrological  models;  (ii)  the  promotion  of  stakeholder's  dialogue  on
policies  for climate resilience in  agriculture;  and  (iii)  the generation  of suitability
maps  for managed  aquifer recharge.

-7-

Part D.  Prolect Manauement

Providing support  for Project administration,  financial  management,  procurement,
safeguards  management,  human  resource  management,  monitoring  and  impact
evaluation,  and  financing incremental  operating  costs needed under the Project.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project  Execution

Section  L 

Ipplementation  Arraunements

Institutional  Arrangements

A. 

I. 

2. 

3. 

A. 

1. 

2. 

1. 

To facilitate  the carrying  out of the  Project,  the Borrower  shall make  the proceeds
of  the  Loan  available  to  the  State  of  Maharashtra 
in  accordance  with  the
Borrower's  standard  arrangements  for  developmental  assistance  to  the  States  of
India.

Notwithstanding the foregoing,  in the  event that  any provisions of this Agreement,
including  the  instructions  that  the  Bank  shall  have  specified  pursuant  to  Section
2.01(b)  or Section 2.04(b) of the General  Conditions, were to  be found inconsistent
with  the  Borrower's  standard  arrangements  for  development  assistance  to  the
States  of India,  the  provisions  of this  Agreement  and  related  instructions  shall
govern.

The  Borrower  shall  at  all  times  protect  its  own  interests  and  the  interests  of the
Bank to accomplish  the purposes  of the  Loan.

Section  H. 

Prolect Moultorine  Renortin  and Evaluation

Project Reports

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  State  of Maharashtra  to  furnish  to  the  Bank  each
Project Report  semi  - annually,  not later than forty-five  (45) days after the end  of
each calendar  semester,  covering  the calendar semester.

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the State  of Maharashtra  to  carry out  a comprehensive
mid-term  Project  review  under  terms  of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and
furnish to the Bank a mid-term Project progress report, satisfactory  to the Bank  no
later  than forty-two  (42)  months after the Effectiveness  date.

Section  Ell.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

Without limitation upon  the provisions of Article  II of the General  Conditions and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  and  (b)  pay:  (i)  the  Front-end  Fee  and  (ii)  Interest  Rate  Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  premium;  in  the  amount  allocated,  if applicable,  up  to  the
percentage  set forth  against each  category  of the following  table:

-9-

Category 

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

210,100,000 

70%

works, 

Goods, 

Operating 

non-
(1) 
consulting  services,  consulting 
Costs,
services, 
Training and Workshops  for the
financed
(except  as 
Project 
Individual  Farmers
through 
and  FPO
Matching  Grants 
Matching  Grants)

(2)  Individual  Farmer  Matching 
Grants

180,400,000 

(3)  FPO Matching Grants 

28,450,000 

700/

70%

(4) Front-end  Fee 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement  in  accordance
with Section 2.07 (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant 
Section  4.05(c)  of 
General  Conditions

to
the

1,050,000 

-0- 

420,000,000

(5)  Interest  Rate Cap  or Interest 
Rate Collar premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

2. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraph  I  above,  no  withdrawal  shall  be
made:

(a) 

(b) 

for payments  made prior  to the  Signature  Date of this  Agreement,  except
that  withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  USD
84,000,000  may be  made  for payments  made within  12  months  prior to
this date,  for Eligible  Expenditures, under Category  (1);  or

for  payments  under  Category  (3)  unless  the  State  of Maharashtra  has
submitted  evidence  to the Bank  confirming  that  the  FPO Matching  Grant
Agreement  format  has  been  finalized  and  approved,  under  terms  and
conditions  satisfactory to the  Bank.

3. 

The Closing Date  is June 30,  2024.

-10-

SCHEDULE 3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization  Repayment Schedule

The  following  table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment Dates of the  Loan  and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Level Principal  Repayments

Installment  Share

Principal  Payment Date 
On each  May  15 and  November  15

Beginning  May  15. 2024
through  May  15,  2041 

On  November  15,  2041 

2.78%

2.70%

-11-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines" means, including for purposes of paragraph 5  of the
the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Appendix  to 
Combating  Fraud  and Corruption  in Projects  Financed by  IBRD  Loans and  IDA
Credits  and Grants", dated  October  15,  2006  and revised  in January  2011  and  as
of July  1,  2016.

"Agriculture  Technology  Management  Agency"  or "ATMA"  means  a  registered
and  other
society  responsible 
agricultural extension services at the district level  in the State of Maharashtra.

technology  dissemination 

for  agricultural 

"Approved  Individual  Farmer  Matching  Grant  Application"  means  the  legal
into  between  the  PMU  and  an  Individual  Fanner
agreement  to  be  entered 
benefiting  from Individual Farmer Matching  Grant  pursuant to  Section I.E of the
Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement,  for  purposes  of providing  financing  for the
implementation of selected activities of the CDPs.

"Beneficiary"  means  either:  (i)  Individual Farmers benefitting from the Individual
Farmer  Matching Grants; and/or (ii) FPOs benefitting from FPO Matching Grants,
as the case may be.

"Category"  means a  category set  forth in the table in Section m.I  of Schedule 2  to
this Agreement.

"Capacity  Development  and  Coaching  Program"  or  "CDC"  means  the program
developed under the  Project to  strengthen the capacity of the FPOs,  referred  to in
Section B.1  of Schedule I  to the Loan Agreement.

"Capacity  Enhancement  Needs Assessment" or "CENA" means the  assessment  to
be  carried  out  under  the  Project  to  provide  the  diagnostic  basis  for  the  CDC,
referred to Section B.1  of Schedule  I  to the Loan Agreement.

Investment  Plans"  or  "CDPs"  means  the  plans
"Cluster  Development  and 
describing  the  roadmap  for  activities  and  investments  required  to  strengthen
climate  resilience  in  the  frming  systems  prevailing  in  a  particular  cluster  of
villages, referred to  in Section A.1  of Schedule  I  to the Loan  Agreement

"Custom  Hiring Centers"  or "CHC" means  the centers  referred to in Section  B.2
of Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement,  to  be  established  and  run  by  FPOs  to  make
available gender-sensitive farm machinery and equipment.

-12-

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

"Department  of  Agriculture"  or  "DOA"  means  the  State  of  Maharashtra's
Department of Agriculture  or any successor thereto.

"Displaced  Persons"  means  persons  who,  on  account  of  the  execution  of the
Project, have  experienced or would experience direct  economic and social impacts
caused by-  (a)  the involuntary taking  of land,  resulting in:  (i)  relocation  or loss of
shelter-  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or
means of livelihood,  whether  or not  such persons  must move  to another  location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated  parks and protected
areas,  resulting  in adverse  impact  on the livelihoods of such persons.

"District Project Committee" or "DPC" means the committee  referred to in Section
I.A.2(a)  of the Schedule  to the Project Agreement created to  facilitate coordination
of project activities among agencies represented  at district level.

"District Superintendent  Agriculture Officer"  or "DSAO"  means  the civil servant
from  the Department  of Agriculture,  responsible  for the planning, implementation
and monitoring of all the agriculture-related  interventions  in a district, except those
assigned  to  the  district  extension  services  and  the  district  rural  local  self-
government institution.

"Divisional  Project Management  Units  (DPMUs)"  or "DPMUs"  means the  units
referred  to in Section LA.3(a)  of the  Schedule to  the Project Agreement created to
provide  institutional coordination with  the districts in  their respective jurisdiction.

:'ESMF  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  environmental  and  social
includes  an  Integrated  Pest  and  Nutrient
management  framework  (which 
Management Plan)  dated  September  14, 2017, and  disclosed  by  the Bank's  portal
on October  31, 2017, setting forth.  (i) the policy  framework,  principles, standards,
processes  and  institutional  arrangements  to be  applied to assess potential  adverse
environmental  impacts  associated  with  Project  activities  and  the  ways  to  avoid,
minimize,  mitigate  or offset  them,  including  public  consultation,  disclosure  and
reporting;  and  (ii)  the  social  impact  assessments  and  mitigation procedures  and
arrangements  and  grievance  redress procedures  for assessing  and addressing  any
Project social impacts;  as such framework may be  amended from  time to time only
with  the prior written concurrence  of the Bank-

16. 

"Farmer  Field  Schools"  or "FFS" means  the participatory and  interactive  on-site
learning  approach  referred  to  in  Section  A.2  of Schedule  I  to  this  Agreement
created  to  emphasize  problem-solving  and  discovery-based  learning  for farmers
with focus  on the  demonstration  of climate-resilient  agricultural  technologies  and
agronomic  practices.

17. 

"Farmer  Producer  Companies"  or "FPCs"  means  registered  producer  companies
under  the  Borrower's  amended  Companies  Act  (1956)  with  a  minimum  share

-13-

capital  of Indian  rupees  500,000  and  run  by  their  members  through  a  board  of
directors.

"Fanner  Producer  Organizations"  or  "FPOs"  means  organizations  which  may
include  Farmer  Producer  Companies  (FPC),  or  other  farmers'  and  women's
focused groups  at the sub district or village  level  in the  State of Maharashtra.

"FI Loan  Agreement"  means each  of the  legal  agreements  to  be  entered between
an FI and a FPO for purposes of providing  financing to support implementation  of
activities  under an  approved  Subproject  Proposal,  referred  to in  Section  I.E.2  of
the Schedule to the  Project Agreement.

"FI  Loan"  means  the  financing  to  be  provided  by  Fis  to  an  FPO,  based  on  a
Subproject  Proposal endorsed  by the DPMU,  for purposes  of providing financing
to support implementation  of activities  under said Proposal.  referred  to  in  Section
I.E.2 of the Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement.

"Financial  Institutions"  and  the  acronym  "FIs"  mean  the  financial  institutions
chosen  by  the  Beneficiaries  of the  FPO Matching  Grants,  referred  to in  Section
1.E.2  of the  Schedule  to the Project Agreement.

"Financial  Management  Manual"  or  "FM  Manual"  means  the  manual  dated
January  18,  2018 setting  forth the operating procedures  for the carrying  out of the
financial  management  requirements  under  the  Project,  including  inter alia: (i)
accounting  principles,  practices,  methods  and  procedures;  (ii)  budgeting  and
-planning;  (iii) fund flow mechanism,  internal  control and financing  reporting;  and
(iv) audit arrangements;  as  such manual may be amended  from  time  to time  with
the  prior written concurrence  of the  Bank.

"FPO  Matching  Grant Agreement"  means  the  legal  agreement  to  be  entered  into
between  the  DPMU  and  a  Beneficiary  of the  FPO Matching  Grant,  pursuant  to
Section I.E.3  of the Schedule  to the Project  Agreement,  for purposes  of providing
financing for the implementation  of Subprojects.

"FPO  Matching  Grants"  means  the  grants  awarded  to  selected  FPOs  out  of the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  pursuant  to  Section  I.E  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement  and  to the selection  criteria and procedures  set  forth in the  PIP  and the
FM  Manual,  to be  disbursed only  after  verification  of successful  implementation
of the  FPO's Subproject  activities.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Investment  Project
Development  General  Conditions 
Financing", dated July  14, 2017.

for  I3RD  Financing, 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

-14-

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"Grant  Application"  means,  in the case  of Individual  Farmer  Matching Grants, an
application  submitted  by an individual  farmer  for an Individual  Farmer  Matching
Grant,  in  accordance  with the  procedures  and  formats  prescribed  in  the PIP  and
FM  Manual,  to apply for  a Matching  Grant.

"ICT" means  information, communication  and technology.

"Individual  Farmer"  means the individual  farmer  who owns  farm lands  in selected
villages  of  the  State  of  Maharashtra  and  who  has  been  selected  to  receive
Individual  Farmer Matching Grants  by the  VCRMC,  "Individual Farmers"  means
the  plural  thereof.

"Individual  Farmer  Matching  Grants"  means  the  grants  awarded  to  Individual
Farmers  out of the proceeds  of the  Loan pursuant to  Section  LE.  of the  Schedule
to  the  Project Agreement  and  to  the  selection  criteria  and  procedures  set forth  in
the  PIP  and  the  FM  Manual  to  promote  climate-resilient  technologies  and
agronomic  practices.

Individual  Farmer  "Subproject"  means  a  set  of  activities  under  approved
Subproject Proposal  to be carried  out by Beneficiaries  of FPO Matching  Grants.

"Knowledge Sharing  and Learning  Plan" or "KSLP"  means  the plan referred  to in
Section  C.1  of Schedule  1  to this  Agreement,  to be developed by the  PMU  based
on a needs assessment  for all out-of-state  and  international  training activities to be
funded under the Project and approved by the Project Steering Committee  and the
#Bank.

"Mini Watershed Plans" means  the comprehensive  diagnostic documents  resulting
from the  participatory  micro planning  process  to be prepared  in selected  villages,
referred  to in  Section A. I  of Schedule  I  to this  Agreement,  which  plans  capture,
at the village-cluster level, the  mapping of resources,  stakeholder's  analysis, water
budgeting,  specific  investments,  and  knowledge  gaps  to  strengthen  climate
resilience  in the  agriculture systems.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  costs  of  incremental  expenditures
incurred  by  DOA  and  other  Participating  Entities  on  account  of  Project
implementation,  including,  inter alia:  costs of operation,  rent and maintenance of
offices,  communication  costs, 
(including  public  awareness  and  outreach,
development  and  maintenance  of  a  comprehensive  project  web  site),  vehicle
hiring,  printing,  incremental  staff  salaries  (including  government  staff  on
deputation  to  the  Project),  training,  and  travel  allowances  of Project  staff related
to Project implementation, coordination, and monitoring  but excluding  the salaries
of civil  servants  of the Borrower.

-15-

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

"Participating  Entities"  means  the  list  of government  departments  and  agencies
involved  in technical  aspects  of Project activities  implementation,  and  for which
including  Water  Conservation
the  Project  shall  cover  Operating  Costs, 
Department,  Department  of  Water  Supply  and  Sanitation,  Forest  Department,
Department  of Marketing  and  Cooperation.  Department  of Animal  Husbandry,
Dairy  and Fish,  Yashwantrao  Chavan  Academy  of Development  Administration
(YASHADA),  Krishi Vigyan  Kendras  (KVKs),  as such  list may be  revised by the
Project Implementing  Entity from time to time.

"Procurement  Plan"  means  the  Project  implementing  Entity's  procurement  plan
for the  Project dated  January  18,  2018,  and provided  for under Section  IV  of the
Procurement  Regulations,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from  time  to  time  in
agreement with the Bank.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means, including  for purposes of paragraph  85 of the
Appendix to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank Procurement  Regulations
for Borrowers  under Investment  Project Financing" dated July  1, 2016,  and revised
in November  2017.

"Procurement  Manual"  means  the  manual  dated  January  18.  2018  prepared  in
accordance  with the Procurement  Regulations by the  Project Implementing Entity
in  a manner  and substance  satisfactory to Bank  for the purpose of carrying out the
inter  alia;  guidance  on
Procurement  activities  which  shall  comprise  of, 
procurement  arrangements,  processes  and  procedures  agreed  with  Bank  as may
be  amended  from  time to time with prior written concurrence  of the  Bank.

"Project  Advisory  Committee"  means  the  committee  to  be  set up  by the  Project
Implementing Entity to provide  advice pursuant  to Section  I.A. 1(b)  of Schedule  2
to the Project  Agreement  and the Project  Implementation  Plan.

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity of even  date  herewith,  as  the same  may  be  amended  from
time to time, and  such term includes  all schedules and agreements  supplemental  to
the Project Agreement.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  or "Maharashtra"  means  the  Borrower's  State  of
Maharashtra.

"Project  Implementation  Plan"  or  "PIP"  means  the  implementation  plan  of the
State  of Maharashtra  for the  Project,  dated January  18,  2018,  including  the  time-
bound  action  plans,  procedures  and  criteria  agreed  with  the  Bank  for  Project
implementation  (including  the  criteria  for  the  selection,  and  disbursement  of the
Individual  Farmers  Matching  Grants  and  FPO Matching  Grants)  as the same  may
amended  from  time  to time  with the prior written  concurrence of the  Bank

-16-

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

"Project  Management  Unit"  or  "PMU"  means  the  unit  established  under
Maharashtra's  Department  of Agriculture  for assisting  in the  carrying  out of the
Project  activities  and  coordination  with  other  stakeholders  and  Participating
Entities in the Project, referred to in Section  I.A.1(c)  of the  Schedule  to the Project
Agreement

"Project  Steering  Committee"  means  the  committee  to  be  established  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity,  for  purposes  of  providing  policy  guidance  and
oversight  for  the  Project  implementation,  pursuant  to  Section  I.A.1(a)  of  the
Schedule to  the Project  Agreement.

"Safeguard  Documents"  means, collectively,  the ESMF (environmental  and social
management  frameworks),  the  TPPF,  as  well  as  any other  plans  and  documents
prepared or to be  prepared, pursuant  to Section  I.C. of the  Schedule  to the Project
Agreement.

"Strategic  Research  and  Extension  Plans"  or  "SREPs"  means  the  district  plans
referred  to in  Section C.1  of Schedule  I  to this Agreement,  to be  developed under
the  leadership  of  ATMA  containing  recommendations  for  expanded  adaptive
research  to  introduce  innovations  in  technology  dissemination  to  cater  to  local
needs and  situations.

"Sub-division  Agriculture  Office"  or  "SDAO"  means  the  office  of the  DOA  in
sub-divisions  of the  State  of Maharashtra  responsible  for  the  implementation  of
annual  work  plan,  and  regular  monitoring  of activities  implemented  at the  sub-
Aivision  level.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  means  the  latest  of  the  two  dates  on  which  the
Borrower  and the  Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such definition  applied  to  all
references to  "the date  of the Loan  Agreement"  in  the General  Conditions.

"Subproject  Proposal"  means,  in  the  case  of FPO  Matching  Grants,  a proposal
submitted by an FPO in  accordance with the procedures  and formats  prescribed in
the PIP and FM  Manual  to apply  for an FPO Matching Grant.

"Training  and  Workshops"  means  the  reasonable  cost  of  trainings,  seminars,
workshops,  conferences and  study tours, conducted  in the territory  of the Borrower
or overseas  and  subject to  the Bank's  prior agreement;  all in  direct relation to  the
Project,  which costs may include, inter alia: (a) the  fees of training institutions  and
lodging  costs,  and
courses;  (b)  domestic  and 
subsistence/per  diem  allowances  both  for trainers  and  trainees;  (c)  the  rental  of
training  facilities;  and  (d)  preparation,  purchase  or  reproduction  of  training
materials.

travel  costs, 

international 

-17-

50. 

51. 

52. 

"Tribal  People  Planning  Framework"  or  "TPPF"  means  the  framework  dated
October  1,  2017,  which  sets forth,  inter alia: the  protocols  for.  (a)  screening  the
Project  activities and identifying and assessing any potential Project-related  social
impact  on Tribal  Groups;  and (b)  preparing  any  mitigation  actions  therefore;  as
well  as (c)  the  monitoring  and  reporting  requirements  in  relation  thereto;  which
TPPF may  be amended  from time  to time only with the prior  written concurrence
of the  Bank.

"Tribal  Groups"  means  any  distinct,  vulnerable,  social  and  cultural  group  within
the  territory  of the Project Implementing  Entity, that: (i)  self-identifies  as  such and
claims,  and  is  recognized by  others  as,  having a distinguishable  cultural  identity:
(ii)  has  collective  attachment  to  geographically  distinct  habits  or  ancestral
territories  in  the  Project  area,  and  to  the  natural  resources  in  these  habitat  and
territories;  (iii)  has customary  cultural,  economic,  social  and  political institutions
that  are separate  from  those  of the  dominant  society  and  culture;  and  (iv)  has  an
indigenous  language,  often  different  from  the  official  language  of the  Borrower
and/or the Project Implementing  Entity.

"VCRMC"  means  Village Climate Resilient Agriculture Management  Committee,
a  Committee created by the  State of Maharashtra  through Government  Resolution
dated  November  7,  2017,  headed  by the  Chairperson  of the  Village  Panchayat
(rural  local  self-government  institution  at the  village  level),  to carry  out planning
and execution  of community  works, referred  to in  Section I.A.4(a)  of the Schedule
to the  Project Agreement.

