OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8864-IN

Loan Agreement

(Additional Financing  for PMGSY Rural  Roads Project)

between

INDIA

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated as  of the  Signature Date  between  INDIA  ("Borrower")
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT
("Bank").  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General  Conditions  (as defined in  the Appendix to this Agreement)  apply

to and form  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in  this
Agreement  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them in the  General  Conditions  or
in  the Appendix to this Agreement.

ARTICLE H - LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower  the  amount  of five hundred  million
United  States  dollars  (USD  500,000,000),  as  such  amount  may be  converted
from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in
financing the project described in Schedule I to this Agreement  (the "Project").

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with
Section III of Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end Fee is  one quarter  of one percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.'  The Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter of one  percent  (0.25%) per  annum on

the Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05.  The interest  rate  is the Reference  Rate plus the Variable  Spread  or such  rate as
may apply  following  a Conversion;  subject to  Section  3.02(e)  of the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment Dates are June  15  and December  15  in each  year.

2.07. 

The principal  amount of the Loan  shall  be repaid  in accordance  with  Schedule
4 to  this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

If on any given day, the Total Exposure exceeds the Standard Exposure
Limit  (as said  terms  are  defmed  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and (b)(iii)
of this Section),  the Borrower shall pay to the Bank a surcharge at the
rate  of one  half  of one  percent  (0.5%)  per annum  of the  Allocated
Excess  Exposure  Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)  of this
Section)  for  each  said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure
Surcharge  (if any)  shall be payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on each
Payment Date.

(b) 

For purposes of this Section the following terms  have the meanings set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount"  means  for  each  day
the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard
during  which 
Exposure  Limit,  the product  of:  (A)  the total  amount  of said
excess;  and (B) the ratio of all (or, if the Bank so  determines,
a portion)  of the  Loan  to the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or  the
equivalent  portions)  of the  loans  made  by  the  Bank  to  the
Borrower, and  to other borrowers  guaranteed  by the  Borrower
that are also  subject  to an  exposure  surcharge,  as said  excess
and ratio  are reasonably  determined  from time  to time by  the
Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on the
Bank's financial exposure to the Borrower which, if exceeded,
would  subject  the  Loan  to  the  Exposure  Surcharge,  as
determined  from time to time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial exposure  to the Borrower,  as reasonably determined
by the Bank.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment to the objectives  of the Project.  To this
end,  the Borrower,  through  NRRDA,  shall:  (a)  carry  out  its  Respective  Parts
of  the  Project;  and  (b)  cause  the  Participating  States,  acting  through  their
SRRDAs,  to carry out their Respective  Parts of the Project,  in accordance with
the  provisions  of Article  V of the  General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional Events  of Suspension consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

any of the provisions of the Letters  of Undertaking has been amended,
waived or abrogated in a way that adversely and materially  affects:  (i)
a  Participating  State's  capacity  to  implement  its  Respective  Parts  of
the  Project  and  discharge  its  obligations  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  this  Agreement;  and/or  (ii)  the  achievement  of  the
Project's development  objectives;  and

as  a  result  of  an  event  which  has  occurred  after  the  date  of  this
Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall  have  arisen  which  shall
make  it improbable  that  any party  to  a  Letter  of Undertaking  will be
able:to perform  its respective obligations thereunder.

-3-

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  Signature

Date.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The  Borrower's  Representative  is  any  of  the  following  officials,  acting
severally-  the  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary,  Joint  Secretary,  Director,
Deputy Secretary,  or Under Secretary  of the Department of Economic  Affairs
in the  Ministry of Finance  of the Borrower.

6.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

the Borrower's address is:

Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry  of Finance
Government  of India
North Block
New  Delhi  110 001
India; and

(b) 

the Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile: 

E-mail:

+91-11-23094905 

jsmi-dea@nic.in

6.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the Bank's address is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America; and

(b) 

the Bank's Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED as  of the Signature Date.

-4-

By

Auorized  Representative

INDIRATINLBN 
Name:  SA"p- 

O
K*tA."kH 

AHJbee

Title:  4rVIAf"r 

Sgt4t!eCTz,F

Date: 

H 7 

-3/,  aO1g

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

Title: 

Date: 

Authorized  Representative

Name:  JvA 

T. 

H

I A,,  A

312l

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective of the  Project  is  to strengthen the  systems  and processes of the
national  PMGSY rural  roads program for the expansion and  maintenance of all-season
rural  access  roads,  resulting in enhanced  road connectivity  to economic  opportunities
and social services for beneficiary communities  in the Participating  States.

The Project consists  of the  following  Parts:

Part A: PMGSY Rural Roads Program Financing

1. 

2. 

3. 

1. 

Green and Climate Resilient Rural Roads: Constructing,  rehabilitating and/or
improving  about  5,500  lan  of priority  rural  roads  and  standalone  bridges  in
Selected  Participating  States  as  per  the  PMGSY  Guidelines,  incorporating
adequate  climate  resilience  and  road  safety  features  to  provide  all-weather
access,  of which 2,000  km incorporate green  concepts and new technologies.

Pilot Projects to Introduce New  Technologies: Piloting and demonstrating the
use  of  green  and  climate  resilient  road  designs,  innovative  bridges  and  new
technologies,  and  retrofitting  road  safety  and  climate-resilient  measures,  in
about  1,500 kn  of existing  Through Routes  and  Link Routes  identified in the
PMGSY District Rural Road Plans of Participating  States (approx.  150-200 km
per state). 

Rural Roads under the  Original Project: Completing  construction  of about
4,000  lan  of  new  all-weather  access  roads  to  unconnected  habitations  in
Selected  Participating  States,  including  bridges  and  necessary  cross  drainage
works,  financed under the  Original Project,  as per the PMGSY  Guidelines.

Part B:  Institutional Strengthening

Asset  Management:  (a)  Developing  and  implementing  state-level  assets
management  plans  in  Participating  States  to  prepare  prioritized  plans  for
capital  investments  and  assets  maintenance,  including  the  development  of a
road and bridge inventory and condition database; (b) refining PMGSY District
Rural Road Plans in  Participating  States, through  identifying missing links and
unlinked  habitations  through  the integrated  planning  of various  categories of
roads; (c)  developing innovative maintenance  contracts for the rural roads  core
network in Participating States,  including the use  of local communities  and/or
micro-enterprise  contractors;  (d)  providing  technical  assistance  to  study,
analyze  and  incorporate  surface  dressing  and  other  innovative  rural  roads
maintenance  technologies  in  Participating  States;  and  (e)  refining  state-level
maintenance  policies  in Participating  States.

2. 

Green &  Climate Resilient Rural Roads Strategy:  Developing  a  green  and
climate-resilient  rural  roads  strategy  for  PMGSY,  incorporating  green  and
climate resilient  concepts  and  supporting  their implementation  through  state-

-
-6-

level strategy replication  in Participating States,  including:  (a) the carrying out
of network level vulnerability  assessments;  (b) the revision of existing designs
and construction  standards for rural roads and bridges; and (c) the development
of  detailed  engineering  designs  to  pilot  retrofitting  climate-resilience  in
existing rural  roads and bridges  in Participating  States.

Skills  Development and Gender-Targeted Opportunities: Refining  PMGSY
training framework to develop  a comprehensive  human resources  professional
development  strategy  for  rural  roads  agencies  and  the  construction  industry
and  supporting  its  implementation,  including  the  creation  of  employment
opportunities  for the youth and women  self-help groups.

Road Safety  Management: Developing  state-level  rural  roads  safety  action
plans in Participating  States,  and  supporting their implementation, through:  (a)
the preparation  of road  safety  engineering  designs  for retrofitting  road  safety
measures  to  the  existing  rural  roads  network  (b)  the  strengthening  of  the
implementation capacity of,  and the  carrying out  of awareness  campaigns  for,
local  governments/agencies  and  communities  on  road  and work-zone  safety,
(c)  the  integration  of road  safety  planning  in the  Participating  States'  asset
management  systems; and (d)  the carrying  out of road safety audits  of priority
rural roads.

Program Management Strengthening: Supporting  system-wide improvements
for the PMGSY rural roads program,  incorporating international best practices,
through:  (a)  the  improvement  of  PMGSY  documentation  systems;  (b)  the
refinement  and  expansion  of the  OMMAS;  (c)  the  refinement  of PMSGY  e-
procurement  system  and  the  Procurement  &  Contract  Management  Manual;
(d)  the development  of a medium term rural roads  vision (strategy)  document;
(e)  the  implementation  of the  recommendations  of the PMGSY  Assessment
Report;  and  (f)  the carrying  out of studies on further evolution  of the PMGSY
rural roads  program and/or the management  of the rural  road sector.

Research  and  Development:  Establishing  centers  of  excellence  and  an
accelerated  testing facility  for,  and  facilitating  the  participating  of PMGSY's
technical agencies  in carrying  out: (a) research  and development on rural roads
cost-effective  designs, using local materials and new technologies;  (b) capacity
building  programs for rural  road agencies;  and  (c) performance  evaluations  of
new rural  roads technologies/innovations.

Outcome Monitoring- Carrying  out  outcome  monitoring  studies  of PMGSY
roads  including  their  contribution  towards  poverty  reduction,  employment,
income generation,  health and education  outcomes,  and the achievement  of the
Sustainable  Development  Goals, all  disaggregated  by gender.

Rural Transport Services and Agriculture Supply  Chain: (a)  Carrying  out
studies  on  prospective  cost-effective,  reliable  and safe  improvements  to rural
transport  services  through PMGSY  rural  roads network,  catering  to the  needs
of women  and the poor  and promoting  the  use of clean  fuel/electric  vehicles;
and  (b)  carrying  out  studies  on  possible trade  and  logistics  improvements  in

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

-7-

9. 

rural areas  to maximize the positive impact of rural roads on agricultural  supply
chains.

Engineering  Design,  Project  Management  and  Implementation:  (a)
Developing  cost-effective  climate-resilient  engineering  designs  for  PMGSY
rural  roads  and associated  surveys  and research,  (b)  carrying out engineering
supervision  of civil  works  and independent  quality  monitoring  of PMGSY
(c)  providing  project  management
rural  roads  in  Participating  States; 
(including  techno-financial)  support to NRRDA and the SRRDAs; (d)  carrying
out performance  auditing services  for the Project; and (e) providing equipment
support  for  office  communication,  research  and  monitoring,  planning  and
design,  IT tools/software,  and quality  assurance  systems  to NRRDA  and  the
SRRDAs  of Participating States,  for the carrying  out of the PMGSY rural roads
program.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

(a) 

through  MoRD,  provide 

the  oversight  and
The  Borrower  shall: 
coordination,  and approve requests for specific activities under the Project;  and
the  day-to-day  Project
(b) 
to  the
implementation  and  provide  overall  strategic 
Participating States and their  respective SRRDAs.

through  NRRDA,  manage  and  monitor 

technical  guidance 

At all  times throughout  Project implementation,  the Borrower  shall, and  shall
cause  the  Participating  States  to,  report  under  the  Program  of  Eligible
Expenditures,  through  the  receipts  and  payment  module  of  the  On-line
Management,  Monitoring  and  Accounting  System  ("OMMAS"),  the  civil
work  expenditures  incurred  under  its/their  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project
during the preceding six  (6) months.

For purposes  of Part A  of the  Project,  the  Borrower,  through  NRRDA,  shall
employ one or more independent  expert(s),  under terms  of reference and with
qualifications  and experience  acceptable  to the Bank, to carry  out performance
audits  on a quarterly or bi-annual  basis, as  the case  may be.  Said independent
expert(s)  shall certify the status  of meeting the conditions  of disbursement  set
out  in paragraph  B.1(b)  of  Section  M  of this  Schedule  2  (the  "Verification
Reports").  The  Borrower,  through  NRRDA,  shall  furnish  copies  of  the
foregoing  Verification  Reports,  including appropriate  certifications, prepared
by said independent  expert(s),  to the Bank on or before June  1  and December
I  of  each  year,  or  on  or  before  any  other  deadlines  and  with  any  such
periodicity agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, until completion  of the
Project.  Said certifications  shall serve  as  a basis  to determine the  amount  of
funds  eligible  for  the  Program  of Eligible  Expenditures  under-Part  A  of the
Project.

Project Documents

The Borrower shall, through NRRDA:

B. 

1. 

(a) 

implement  its  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project,  and  cause  the
Participating States to implement  their Respective Parts of the Project,
all  in  accordance  with  the  Operations  Manual,  the  Procurement  &
Contract Management  Manual  (as  eventually revised pursuant  to DLI
2.6  of Schedule  3 to this Agreement),  the  Revised Environmental  and
Social Management  Framework, the Environmental Codes ofPractice,
the Social Management  Framework and the Vulnerability  Framework;
and

-9-

2. 

C. 

1. 

(b) 

refrain,  and cause  the  Participating  States  to refrain,  from  materially
and/or substantially amending, revising, waiving, voiding, suspending,
interfering  and/or abrogating,  any provision of the Operations  Manual,
the  Revised
the  Procurement  &  Contract  Management  Manual, 
the
Environmental 
Environmental  Codes of Practice,  the Social Management  Framework
and/or  the  Vulnerability  Framework,  whether  in  whole  or  in  part,
without the prior written mutual agreement of the Bank.

Social  Management 

Framework, 

and 

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  any  of  the  provisions  of  the
Operations  Manual,  the  Procurement  & Contract  Management  Manual,  the
the
Revised  Environmental 
Environmental  Codes  of Practice,  the Social  Management  Framework  and/or
the  Vulnerability Framework,  and  those of this Agreement,  the provisions  of
this Agreement shall prevail.

and  Social  Management  Framework, 

Implementation Arrangements with Participating States

The  Borrower, through  NRRDA,  shall cause  each Participating State  and  its
respective  SRRDA to execute and furnish to NRRDA a Letter of Undertaking,
in a manner and substance  acceptable  to the  Bank, which shall provide,  inter
alia, that

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the Participating State and its SRRDA  declare their commitment to the
objective  of the  Project.  To  this  end,  the  Participating  State  and  its
SRRDA  shall  carry  out  their  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project  in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions,
and  shall provide,  promptly as  needed,  the  finds,  facilities,  services
and  other resources required  for their Respective  Parts of the Project;

the Participating  State shall carry out its Respective  Parts of the Project
through  its SRRDA  and  the respective  Program  Implementation  Unit
which shall be staffed with  qualified personnel,  in adequate  numbers,
to  be responsible for the  day-to-day implementation  of the Project in
such Participating  State;

the Participating State and its SRRDA shall  carry out their Respective
Parts  of the  Project  in accordance  with  the  Operations  Manual,  the
the  Revised
Procurement  &  Contract  Management  Manual, 
the
Environmental 
Environmental Codes of Practice, the Social Management  Framework,
the Vulnerability  Framework, and  the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;

Social  Management 

Framework, 

and 

prior  to  the  initiation  of  any  civil  works  for  any  Project-related
physical  infrastructure,  the  Participating  State  and  its SRRDA  shall
ensure  that  the  Detailed  Project  Reports  for  any  such  physical
infrastructure:  (i)  siall  have  been  screened  as  per  the  Revised
the
Environmental 
Environmental  Codes of Practice, the Social Management Framework,

Social  Management 

Framework, 

and 

-10-

(e) 

and  the  Vulnerability  Framework;  and  (ii)  shall  have  included  the
mitigation, remedial  and/or compensatory measures mandated by such
frameworks  and  codes  of practice  as  recommended  by  the  screening
and impact assessment carried out  thereunder;

prior  to  the  hiring/engagement  of  any  consulting  services  for  the
provision  of technical  assistance  for its Respective Parts of the Project
in  relation  to  the  construction,  rehabilitation,  improvement  of,  and/or
retrofitting of new designs and/or  technologies for any Project-related
physical  infrastructure, the  Participating  State  and its SRRDA  shall
ensure  that the  terms  of reference for  any such  consultants'  services
technical,
incorporate 
environmental  and social standards  set forth in  the Bank's Safeguards
Policies  then  in  force,  that might  be  relevant  to  the technical  support
provided,  or advice  conveyed,  through  such consulting services;  and

intemational  performance, 

the  applicable 

(f) 

the  Participating  State  and  its  SRRDA  shall  ensure  that  all  goods,
works  and  services  required  for  the  Participating  State's  and  its
SRRDA's  Respective  Parts  of  the  Project  shall  be  procured  in
accordance  with the provisions of the Procurement  Regulations.

2. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of paragraph  1  above,  the Borrower,  through
NRRDA,  shall  ensure  that, prior  to the  carrying  out  of any  pilot  civil works
under Part A.2  of the Project:  (a) the respective Participating  State  (other than
a Selected Participating State)  and its SRRDA and  the relevant Detailed Project
Report for the  proposed  civil  works,  shall have  been  appraised by  the Bank;
and  (b)  the  Bank  shall  have  confirmed,  in  writing,  its  no-objection  to  the
carrying  out  of such  activities  by said Participating  State  as per the submitted
Detailed Project Report.

Section  H. 

Project Monitoring  Reportine and Evaluation

The Borrower shall  furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later than forty-
five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar  quarter,  covering  the  calendar
quarter.

Section  M.  Withdrawal  of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General.

Without limitation  upon the provisions  of Article 11  of the General  Conditions
and in  accordance  with the Disbursement  and Financial  Information Letter,
the Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  and  (b)  pay:  (i) the  Front-end  Fee;  and  (ii)  each Interest  Rate
Cap or Interest Rate Collar premium; in the amount allocated and, if applicable,
up to the percentage  set forth against  each  Category of the following table:

-11-

Category 

Amount of the Loan 

Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures  to be
financed
(inclusive of Taxes)

(1) 

Program  of Eligible
Expenditures

(2)  Program  of Eligible 
Expenditures

Expeditres150,000,000 

348,750,000 

50%

50%

(3)  Front-end  Fee 

1,250,000 

(4) 

Interest  Rate  Cap  or 
Collar 
Interest  Rate 
premium 
-

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

500,000,000

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of
the General  Conditions

Amount  due  pursuant  to
Section  4.05  (c)  of  the
General Conditions

B. 

1. 

Withdrawal  Conditions;  Withdrawal Period.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made:

(a) 

(b) 

the  Signature  Date,  except 

that
for  payments  made  prior  to 
withdrawals  up to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  one  hundred
million  United States dollars  (USD  100,000,000)  may be made under
Category  (1) above,  for payments made prior to this date but on or after
for  the  financing  of  the  Program  of  Eligible
June  1,  2017 
Expenditures;  or

for the  Program  of  Eligible  Expenditure  under  Category  (2)  above
unless  and until the  Borrower has  furnished  to  the Bank  evidence,  in
form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  the  DLR(s)  with
respect  to  which  the  withdrawal  has  been  requested  has  been  fully
achieved,  including  the relevant  Verification  Report(s)  certifying:  (i)
the achievement  of the  such  DLR(s); (ii) the  Borrower's incurrence  of
payments,  and/or  reasonable  forecast  of payments  to  be  incurred,
consistent  with  the  Program  of  Eligible  Expenditures,  and  in
compliance  with  the  safeguards  and  procurement  arrangements
provided  for  in  this  Agreement,  the  Operations  Manual  and  the
Procurement  & Contract  Management  Manual;  (iii) the  construction,
rehabilitation  and/or retrofitting  of eligible rural roads  in accordance
with the relevant civil works  contract;  and (iv) in respect  of civil works
for Part  A  of the  Project,  the relevant  expenditures'  compliance with
the  eligibility  criteria  set  forth  in  paragraph  2  of  Section  I  of this
Schedule  2.

-12-

2. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part B.l(b)  of this Section m:

(a) 

if,  with  respect  to  any  DLR(s),  the  Bank  is  not  satisfied  that  such
DLR(s)  has/have been  fully  achieved  by  the  end  of the  DLR  Period
corresponding  to  such  DLR  in  the  table  in  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement, then the Bank may, at any time, by notice to the Borrower,
decide  to:  (i)  authorize  the  withdrawal  of  all  or  a  portion  of  the
unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  such  DLR(s),  at
such later date if and when the Bank shall be satisfied, on the basis of
evidence  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  that  such  DLR  has  been  fully
achieved prior to the Closing Date; (ii) reallocate  all or a portion of the
proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  such  DLR(s)  to  any  other
DLR(s);  and/or (iii) cancel  all  or a portion  of the proceeds  of the Loan
then  allocated to such  DLR(s); and

(b) 

if, at any time,  the Bank determines  that any amounts  of the Loan were
withdrawn without evidence of actual spending by the Borrower under
the  Program  of  Eligible  Expenditures  or  without  evidence  of
satisfaction  of other ciiteria set forth  in  this Agreement,  the Borrower
shall refund  any such amounts  to the Bank  as the  Bank shall  specify
by notice to the Borrower.

Any withdrawal  applications  made by the Borrower  for the reimbursement  of
payments  made,  and/or  the provision  of advance  amounts  for payment to be
made,  under the  Program  of Eligible  Expenditures  shall  be  first attributed to,
and drawn  down  from,  Category  (1)  of the table  set forth  in Section  HLA  of
this Schedule 2,  and then, upon  exhaustion  of the amount  allocated from time
to time to such Category  (1),  to/from Category (2)  of the aforementioned  table.
The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  any  such  withdrawal  applications  shall  be
netted  from  any  payments  under  the  Program  of  Eligible  Expenditures
previously reimbursed  and/or advanced  by any other financier contributing  to
financing  the same PMGSY  rural  roads program activities.

3. 

4. 

The Closing Date is December  15,  2020.

Disbursement Linked Indicators, Disbursement Linked Results  and Allocated  Amounts

SCHEDULE 3

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
INDICATORS 

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED
RESULTS

1.  Number of habitations  in 

Selected  Participating  States 
benefited with  improved 
connectivity  either through 
constructions of new  roads 
or the rehabilitation  of 
existing roads in  poor 
conditions 

Two thousand  (2000) benefited 
habitations 

2.1.  Number  of Districts which 
have established  GIS-based 
road  and bridge  inventory 
and condition database 
(including videography) 

Twenty (20) Disicts  with 
Tetablishe 
establis 

tbases 

USD  20 million upon achievement
of improved connectivity  to at least
four hundred (400) benefited
habitations,  and USD  5 million  for
each additional  one hundred (100)
habitations  with  improved
connectivity  thereafter,  up to  a
maximum  of USD  115 million

USD 4 million upon the
establishment of databases in  at
least four (4) Districts,  and  USD  I
million  for each  additional  District
with  an established database
thereafter,  up to  a maximum  of
USD  23  million

2.2.  Improved planning system 

USD  10 million

NRRDA has issued  a Project
Preparation Manual  for rural roads
with templates containing  the data
used  to prepare the detailed
engineering designs, and  the
SRRDAs  of at least  two  (2) 
Participating  States  have utilized
such  manual  in the preparation  of
detailed  engineering  designs for the
civil  works  of at least one rural road
under Part A. I  or A.2  of the Project

2.3.  Kilometers  of rural roads  in 
Selected  Participating States, 
constructed  using  green, 
climate-resilient  and new 
technologies 

Two thousand  kilometers  (2,000 
km) of green,  climate-resilient and 
new technologies 

2.4.  Kilometer of rural roads for 
which the SRRDAs of 
Participating States have 
undertaken (and completed) 
climate vulnerability 
assessments 

Five thousand kilometers  (5,000 
km) of rural roads assessed 

USD  10  million upon the
constructions  of at least four
hundred  (400) kIn  of green and
climate-resilient and new
technologies,  and  USD  5  million
for  every additional two  hundred
(200) km  built thereafter,  up to  a
maximum of USD  57 million

USD 4 million  upon the completion
of vulnerability  assessment in
Participating  States for  at least one
thousand (1000)  km  of rural  roads;
and,  and  USD  1  million for each
additional  two hundred  fifty (250)
nkm  of rural  roads  assessed

- 14  -

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
INDICATORS 

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
RESULTS

2.5.  Number of Participating 

States that have prepared and 
adopted  road safety action 
plans for their  rural roads 

Ten (10)  Participating States with 
adopted  road safety action plans 

2.6.  Revised  Procurement & 

Contract  Management 
Manual. 

NRRDA has  issued a revised
Procurement  & Contract
Management Manual  for the
Project, and the SRRDAs  of at least
five (5)  Selected Participating States 
have adopted  and utilized it in the
implementation  of civil works under
the PMGSY rural  roads program

ALLOCATED  AMOUNTS

thereafter, up to  a maximum  of
USD  23 million

USD 4 million upon the adoption  of
road safety action  plans  by at least
two (2) Participating  State; and
USD 2 million per additional
Participating State adopting such
plan thereafter, up to  a maximum of
USD  23  million.

USD  10  million

3.1.  Number of Participating 

States that have prepared and 
adopted  asset management 
plans for the operation  and 
maintenance of their rural 
roads. 

3.2.  Number of Districts which

have implemented 
performance-based/ 
community-based 
maintenance contracting 
(including those  implemented 
by women  self-help groups) 
for their respective rural 
roads.

3-3.  Number of Districts which 
have publicly disclosed in 
OMMAS  or SRRDA's 
websites their annual 
maintenance plans 

Ten (10)  Participating  States with 
adopted  asset management  plans 

Thrtyr 

(30) Districts withy 
performance-based/communmty- 
nancl  contracts  for 
based  m 

Twenty (20)  Districts with disclosed 
annual  maintenance plans for their 
rural roads 

USD 6  million upon the adoption of
asset  management plans  by  at least
two (2) Participating State, and
USD 3  million per additional
Participating States  adopting such
plan thereafter,  up to a maximum of
USD  34 million.

USD  5 million  upon the
performance-based/community-
based contracting by at least five
(5)  Districts, and USD  I  million for
each additional  District using such
contracting modalities  thereafter, up
to a maximum of USD  34 million

USD  4 million upon the disclosure
of annual  maintenance plan by at
least four (4) Districts;  and USD  I
million per  any additional District
disclosing such plans  thereafter, up
to  a maximum  of USD  23  million

4.1.  Number  of NRRDA  and 

SRRDA  staff which have been 
SRRD  stff  hic  hae ben accredited 
accredited  after completing  a 
minimum  of two (2)  training 

Two  thousand (2,000) staff 

hundred  (400)  staff;  and USD 

USD 4 million upon the training
accreditation of at least four

I

million per every  one hundred (100)
additional  staff accredited

-15-

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
INDICATORS 

DISBURSEMENT-LINKED 
RESULTS

ALLOCATED  AMOUNTS

modules under the PMGSY 
Training Framework- 

4.2. Number  of Districts which 

have prepared and disclosed 
their annual performance 
eOMM 
reports in 

O  MA 

S4S 

Twenty (20) Districts with disclosed 
annual  performance  reports  in 

thereafter,  up to a maximum  of
USD  23 million

USD  5  million upon the disclosure
of annual  performance  reports  by at
least five (5)  Districts; and USD  1
million per any additional District
disclosing such reports thereafter,
up  to a maximum of USD  23
million

SCHEDULE  4

Commitment-Linked  Amortization Repayment  Schedule

The  following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Principal Payment Date 
On each June  15 and December  15

Beginning June  15,  2021 
through  December  15,  2030

Installment Share

5%

-17-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Allocated  Amount"  means  the  amount  allocated  to  each  individual  DLR,  or
determined  for  each DLR pursuant  to the respective  formula set forth  in  the third
column of the table provided in Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means, for purposes  of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in Projects Financed  by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October  15,  2006 and revised  in January  2011 and  as of July  1,  2016.

"Bank's  Safeguards  Policies"  means 
the  Bank's  operational  policies  and
procedures  set  forth in  the  Bank's Operational  Manual  under OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04,
4.36, 4.10,4.11,  and 4.12,  as published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

"Category"  means  a  category  set forth in  the table  in  Section  I.A of Schedule  2
to this Agreement.

"Detailed  Project Reports" means each of the detailed engineering reports prepared
or  to be prepared  by a  Participating  State  and  its SRRDA,  in  respect of any rural
roads and bridges to be constructed, rehabilitated,  upgraded or retrofitted under the
PMGSY rural  roads program,  including  detailed survey and  investigations,  design
and  technology  of  choice,  as  well  as  social  and  environmental  impacts  and
mitigation measures  therefor,  all  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Chapter  6
(Project Preparation)  of the Operations  Manual.

"Disbursement-Linked  Indicator"  and  the  acronym  "DLI"  mean  each  of  the
disbursement-linked  indicators  set  forth  in the  first  column of the  table  provided
in Schedule  3  to  this Agreement.

"Disbursement-Linked  Result"  and  the  acronym  "DLR"  mean  each  of  the
disbursement-linked  targets/results  set  forth  in  the  second  column  of  the  table
provided in  Schedule  3 to this  Agreement.

"District" means  an administrative  subdivision of a Participating  State.

"DLR  Period"  means,  in  respect  of any  DLR,  the  period  specified  in  the  table
provided  in  Schedule  3  to  this  Agreement,  during which  such  DLR is  set to  be
achieved.

10. 

"Environmental  Codes  of Practice"  means  the  environmental  codes  of practice,
developed  and  approved  by the  Borrower  for the  implementation  of the PMGSY
rural  roads program, as  revised through March 22, 2018, providing guidance to the

- 18  -

Participating  States  to  avoid, minimize  and mitigate the  environmental  impacts of
Project  activities  during  their  implementation;  as  such  codes  may  be  amended,
updated and/or  supplemented  from  time to time  with the prior written concurrence
of the Bank.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated July 14,  2017.

"GIS" means  a geographical  information  system  capturing,  analyzing,  managing
and presenting spatial  and geographic data in respect of rural  roads in Participating
States.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  incremental  expenses  incurred  by
NRRDA and/or  the Participating  States, through their SRRDAs,  on account of the
management,  implementation,  monitoring  and/or  evaluation  of their  Respective
Parts  of the  Project,  including,  but  no  limited  to:  incremental  staff  salaries,  per
diem  and  allowances,  office rent,  office  supplies, utilities, conveyance,  travel and
boarding/lodging  allowances,  operating  and  maintenance  expenditures  of office
equipment  and  vehicles, bank  charges, insurance,  advertising,  media projections,
newspaper subscriptions, periodicals, and printing and stationary  costs incurred for
the purposes  of Project  activities;  but excluding  salaries,  fees, honoraria,  bonuses,
dand  any  other  salary  supplements  of  members  of  the  Borrower's  and/or  the
Participating States'  civil service.

"IT"  means  information technology.

"Letter of Undertaking"  means  each of the  letters to  be entered  by any state of the
Borrower as a requisite  for such state to become  a Participating  State, as prescribed
in  Section C. 1  of Schedule  2  of this Agreement.

"Link  Routes" means,  collectively,  the  rural  roads connecting  a single habitation
or a  group  of habitations  to  Through  Routes  or District roads  leading  to market
centers,  as defined in the paragraph  3.1.7 of Chapter 3 (Planning)  of the Operations
Manual.

"MoRD"  means the  Borrower's Ministry  of Rural  Development.

"MoRTIH"  means  the  Borrower's Ministry  of Road Transport  and  Highways.

"NRRDA"  means  the  Borrower's  National  Rural  Roads  Development  Agency
(now known as the National  Rural Infrastructure  Development Agency - NRIDA),
a  society  established  and  operating  in  good  standing  under  the  laws  of  the
Borrower,  and registered pursuant to the Borrower's Society Registration  Act  XX
of 1860, under registration  No.  S:41223  of 2002, of January  140, 2002.

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

-A

- 19  -

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

"On-line  Management,  Monitoring  and  Accounting  System"  and  the  acronym
"OMMAS"  mean  the  centralized  freely  and  publicly  accessible  web-based
database,  established  by the  Borrower  pursuant to Chapter 12 (Monitoring)  of the
Operations  Manual 
for  purposes  of  monitoring  and  providing  financial
management  information  related  to  the  release  and  utilization  of PMGSY  rural
roads program's  funds as well as  reporting on the  status of progress  of civil works
and the quality thereof.

"Operations  Manual"  means  the  operations  manual  for the  PMGSY  rural  roads
program,  dated February  2005  as revised  to  the  Signature  Date,  which  includes
detailed  guidelines  and  procedures  for  the  implementation,  supervision  and
monitoring of the Project, as the same may amended, updated and/or supplemented
from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written  concurrence  of the  Bank.  The  term
"Operations  Manual"  shall be  construed  to  include the  supplemental  manual  for
the  selection of external auditors.

"Original  Project"  means  the  PMGSY  rural  road  program-related  activities
described  in  Schedule  1  to  the  financing  agreement,  dated  January  14,  2011,
entered into between the Borrower and the International Development Association
for the provision  of two credits (Cr. No. 4848-IN and 4849-IN) for up to an amount
of six hundred thirty-six  million three  hundred thousand  Special Drawing  Rights
(SDR  636,300,000).

"Participating  State"  means  any of the  States of the  Borrower  which  has  entered
into  a Letter  of Undertaking  for purposes  of carrying  out  its Respective  Parts  of
the Project (including the  Selected  Participating  States).

"PMGSY" means  the Borrower's Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana rural  road
program,  launched  by the Borrower  in December 2000  to provide  connectivity  to
rural  habitations with population greater than  five hundred (500)  dwellers  (or 250
dwellers in hilly states, deserts or tribal and  backward Districts).

"PMGSY  Assessment Report"  means the assessment  report prepared by the Bank
for purposes  of further enhancing  the design  and implementation  of PMGSY,  and
accepted by NRRDA on February  26, 2018.

"PMGSY  District  Rural  Road  Plans"  means  the  compendium  of existing  and
proposed rural  road network system  in a given District, identifying  proposed  all-
weather  roads for  connecting  the  yet  unconnected  habitations,  to  be prepared  by
the  District  authorities  and  approved  by  the  relevant  local  and  state-level
governments,  pursuant  to  Chapter  3 (Planning)  of the Operations  Manual.

27. 

"PMGSY  Guidelines"  means Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana Programme
Guidelines issued by NRRDA on January  2015, as amended to  the Signature Date.

L

- 20  -

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

"PMGSY  Training  Framework"  means  the  training  framework  prepared  by
NRRDA  for  purposes  of  developing  the  institutional  capacity  of  rural  road
agencies,  and approved pursuant to the memorandum  of understanding entered into
by  and  between  NRRDA  and  the  National  Institute  of Rural  Development  &
Panchayati  Raj,  of MoRD  and  the  Indian  Academy  of  Highway  Engineers,
MoRTH,  dated February 2, 2017.

"Procurement  &  Contract  Management  Manual"  means  the  procurement  and
contract  management  manual  for  the  PMGSY  rural  roads  program,  dated
December  20,  2011,  as revised  to  the  Signature  Date,  as  the  same  may amended,
updated and/or supplemented  from time to time with the  prior written concurrence
of the  Bank.

"Procurement Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers", dated  July 2016,  revised November  2017.

"Program  Implementation  Unit"  means  each  of the  implementation  units  set up
within a SRRDAs,  operating at a District level in  a Participating  State, and referred
to in sub-paragraph  1(b)  of Section I.C  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

"Program of Eligible Expenditures"  means: (a)  all works  (as  certified through  the
OMMAS  pursuant to Section  I.A.2  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement),  goods, non-
consulting services, consulting  services, Training and Workshops  and Incremental
Operating  Costs  incurred  by NRRDA,  the  Selected  Participating  States  and their
SRRDAs  in  the  implementation  of their  respective  activities  under  Part  A. 1  the
Project;  (b)  all works  (as  certified  though the OMMAS  pursuant to  Section  I.A.2
of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement),  goods,  non-consulting  services,  consulting
services,  Training  and Workshops  and  Incremental  Operating  Costs  incurred  by
NRRDA, the Participating States and their  SRRDAs in the implementation  of their
respective  activities  under  Part A.2  the  Project;  (c)  all works  (as  certified  though
the  OMMAS  pursuant to  Section I.A.2  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement),  goods,
non-consulting  services,  consulting  services,  and  Training  and  Workshops
incurred  by NRRDA,  the  Selected Participating  States and their SRRDAs  which
the
have  entered  Letters  of  Undertaking  prior 
implementation  of their respective  activities under Part A.3  of the Project;  and (d)
all  goods,  consulting  services,  non-consulting  services,  Training  and  Workshops
and Incremental  Operating Costs incurred by NRRDA, the Participating  States and
their  SRRDAs  in the implementation  of their respective  activities  under Part B  of
the Project.

to  January  1,  2018, 

in 

33. 

"Project  Affected  Persons" means persons who,  on account of the  execution of the
Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic  and social impacts
caused  by: (a)  the involuntary  taking of land, resulting  in:  (i)  relocation or loss of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or

-21 

means  of livelihood,  whether or  not such persons must move  to  another location;
or (b)  the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas,  resulting  in adverse  impact  on the  livelihoods  of such persons.

34. 

"Project  Preparation  Manual"  means the preparation  manual for the PMGSY  rural
roads program  to be prepared  by NRDDA for the  Project,  which includes:  (a)  the
procedural  instructions  and  applicable  standards  for  the  carrying  out  of surveys
and  investigations  required for the designing of roads geometry, pavement,  culvers
and  bridges;  (b)  the  assessment  and  determination  of  necessary  road  safety
measures,  and green and climate  resilient technologies  to be employed; and (c) the
templates  to be utilized  in the presentation of design data  and detailed  drawing  for
any rural roads proposed  to be  financed under the  Project;  as such manual may be
amended,  updated and/or  supplemented  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
concurrence of the Bank.

35. 

"Respective  Parts of the  Project"  means:

for NRRDA,  Part B of the Project;

(a) 

(b) 

for each  Participating  State, Parts A.2,  and B of the  Project;  and

(c) 

for each  Selected  Participating  State, Parts  A  and B  of the Project.

36 

37. 

the
"Revised  Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  means 
environmental  and  social  management  framework  dated  March  22,  2018,  which
sets forth  a framework of social and environmental  actions,  measures  and policies
applicable  to the Project,  and designed  to maximize the benefits  thereunder,  avoid
or mitigate  any adverse  impacts, and in the  case  of the Project Affected  Persons,  if
such adverse  impacts  cannot be  avoided altogether, provide  such Project Affected
Persons  with  alternative  opportunities  to  enhance  or  restore their  livelihoods,  as
such framework  may be amended,  updated and/or supplemented  from time to time
with the prior written concurrence  of the  Bank.

"Selected  Participating  States"  means  each  of the Borrower's  Participating  States
of Bihar,  Jharkhand,  Himachal  Pradesh,  Meghalaya,  Punjab,  Rajasthan,  Uttara
Khand,  Uttar Pradesh,  and  Tripura, selected  by the  Borrower and appraised by the
Bank for the carrying  out activities under Part  A. 1  and Part A.3  of the Project, as
well  as any other  state of the  Borrower  selected  from  time  to  time  with  the prior
written concurrence of the  Bank, to  take part in such activities.

38. 

"Signature  Date" means  the later  of the two  dates on which the  Borrower  and the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such  definition  applies  to  all references  to  "the
date of the Loan Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

-
- 22  -

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

"Social  Management  Framework"  means the social management  (resettlement  and
participation)  framework,  dated  March  2018,  which  forms  part  of the  Revised
Environmental  and  Social Management  Framework,  and sets  forth the principles,
responsibilities  and  procedures  for  screening  Project  activities  and  surveying,
determining,  consulting,  engaging  and/or compensating,  as the  case  may  be,  the
Project  Affected  Persons  and/or  Tribal  Groups  impacted  by the  Project,  as such
framework  may  be  amended,  updated  and/or  supplemented,  from  time  to time,
with the  prior written concurrence of the  Bank.

"SRRDA"  means  each  of  the  Participating  States'  State-Level  Rural  Road
Development Agency, an autonomous agency/society  with distinct legal status, (to
be)  established  and  operating  under  the  laws  of the  Borrower,  and  registered
pursuant to the Borrower's  Society Registration Act XXI of 1860,  as prescribed  in
paragraph  2.2.3  of Chapter 2 (State Level  Institutional Structure) of the  Operations
Manual.

"Sustainable  Development  Goals"  means  the  collection  of seventeen  (17)  global
social  and  economic  sustainable  development  goals  established  by  the  United
Nations  pursuant  to  the  Resolution  A/RES/70/1  of  September  25,  2015,  and
proposed to be achieved by 2030.

"Through  Routes"  means,  collectively,  roads  which  collect  traffic  from  several
link  roads  or  a  long  chain  of habitations  and  lead  to  marketing  centers  either
directly  or  through  a  higher  category  of roads,  as  defined  in paragraph  3.1.7  of
Chapter  3 (Planning)  of the  Operations  Manual.

"Training  and Workshops"  means the reasonable  costs of training, workshops and
conferences  required for the Project and conducted in the territory of the  Borrower
and, subject to the Bank's prior approval, overseas,  including training institutional
and  course  fees,  logistics  expenses,  rental  of  training  facilities,  purchase  and
publication  of training materials, and travel and  subsistence  allowance for trainers
and/or  trainees.

"Tribal  Groups"  means  any  distinct,  vulnerable,  social and cultural  group  within
the  territory  of the  Borrower,  that:  (a)  self-identifies  as such  and  claims,  and  is
recognized  by  others  as,  having  a  distinguishable  cultural  identity,  (b)  has
collective  attachment  to geographically distinct  habitats  or ancestral  territories in
the  Project area, and to the natural resources  in these habitat and territories;  (c) has
customary  cultural,  economic,  social  and  political  institutions  that  are  separate
from those  of the  dominant  society  and  culture;  (d)  has  an indigenous  language,
often different  from the  official  languages  of the  Borrower  and/or  (e)  as defined
by the  Constitution of India.

45. 

"Verification  Report"  means  each  of the  reports  to be  prepared  by independent
expert(s)  pursuant to Section I.A.3  of Schedule  2 to this Agreement, in  accordance

- 23  -

with the verification protocol  agreed with the Bank,  for purposes  of certifying the
achievements  of DLI(s)/DLR(s)  and  the  incurrence  of expenditures  eligible  for
financing under the Program of Eligible Expenditures, which reports  shall serve as
the basis  for the processing  of Loan withdrawal  applications.

46. 

"Vulnerability  Framework"  means  the  framework  dated March  2018,  which  sets
forth  the  measures  designed  to  ensure  meaningful  consultations  and  informed
participation  of vulnerable population (associated  with gender, cast,  identification
in  the
with Tribal  Groups  and/or  other  vulnerable  and/or  minority  identities) 
design  and implementation of the PMGSY rural roads program's activities, as well
as their partaking  in the Project-derived  benefits,  all in  culturally appropriate  and
socially  inclusive  manner;  as  such  framework  may be  amended,  updated  and/or
supplemented,  from time to time, with the prior written  concurrence  of the Bank.

