OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8871-CG

Loan Agreement

(Support to Enterprise  Development  and  Competitiveness Project)

REPUBLIC  OF CONGO

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN NUMBER  8871-CG

LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  Republic  of  Congo
and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The  Borrower  and the  Bank hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as  defined in the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply to
and  form part of this  Agreement

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings  ascribed to  them in the  General Conditions  or  in the  Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of twenty  million  three
hundred  thousand  Euros  (E20,300,000),  as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from
time to  time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the
project described  in Schedule  1  to this  Agreement  ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may  withdraw  the proceeds  of the Loan  in accordance  with Section

III of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee is one quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  of the Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge  is one quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  per annum on the

Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest rate  is  the Reference  Rate  plus  the Fixed  Spread  or  such rate  as may
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment Dates  are April  15  and October  15  in  each year.

2.07. 

The principal  amount of the Loan shall be repaid in  accordance  with Schedule  3  to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment  to the objective of the Project.  To  this end,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project  through  the MPSRI in  accordance with the

-2-

provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01.  The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following:

(a) 

(b) 

The Borrower shall have established  the Steering Committee  in a form and
manner acceptable  to the Bank.

The  Borrower, 
Implementation  Manual  in  a form  and manner acceptable  to the Bank.

the  MPSRI,  shall  have  adopted  Project

through 

4.02.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the date  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  after  the

Signature  Date.

4.03. 

For purposes  of Section  9.05(b)  of the  General  Conditions,  the date on which  the
obligations  of the Borrower  under this  Agreement  (other than those providing  for
payment obligations)  shall terminate  is  ten (10)  years after the Signature  Date.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its minister responsible  of finance.

5.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the Borrower's  address  is:

Ministry  of Finance,  Budget and  Public Portfolio
Corner  of Blvd.  Denis  Sassou Nguesso  and Av.  Cardinal  Emile Biayenda
B.P.  2083
Brazzaville
Republic  of Congo

(b) 

the  Borrower's Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile:

242-022-814-145

5.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Bank's address  is:

International Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development

-3-

1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America;  and

(b) 

the  Bank's  Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  as  of the Signature  Date.

REPUBLIC  OF CON 

VIeA

By : 

r*

,ep  tptative

Name:

at 

Title: 
Date:  21  MIN

fg  ng.g

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEV  OPMENT

By:

Authorize  Representative

Name:

Title:

Date:

-4-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objective  of the  Project  is to  foster MSMEs'  competitiveness  in  the Targeted

Sectors and Targeted Geographic  Areas of the  Borrower's territory.

The Project  consists  of the following  parts:

Part 1:  Regulatory  and Institutional Support to  Strengthen the Enabling

Environment  for Private Sector Development

Promoting  investments  in  the  Targeted  Sectors  and  strengthening  the  enabling
environment  for private  sector development  through:

(a) 

Investment climate  reform  and public-private  dialogue

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Provision  of support  to:  (A)  identify policy,  institutional  or other
constraints  to  investment  climate  and establish an  action plan  for
related reforms;  and (B)  formulate  and implement  facilitation  or
corrective  measures  to  streamline  and  simplify 
investment
procedures.

Carrying out institutional, legal and regulatory framework reforms
to  strengthen  the  investment  climate,  including  in  the  following
areas: (A)  business startup; (B) dealing  with construction  permits;
(C)  access to  electricity:  (D)  property transfer;  (E)  paying taxes;
and  (F)  trading  across  borders,  through,  inter alia,  supporting
drafting  of 
stakeholder
consultations.

texts  and  carrying  out 

reform 

tool 

for  accelerating 

Supporting  the  improvement  of  public-private  dialogue  as  a
participatory 
identification  and
implementation  of  cross-cutting  and  sector-specific  reforms,
through  the  design  or  improvement  of  the  efficiency  and
performance  of the institutional  architecture of the public-private
dialogue process.

the 

(b) 

Targeted promotion of domestic  and foreign  trade investments

Building  institutional  capacity  of  institutions  involved  in  facilitating
investments  and enterprise  development,  through:  (i)  a capacity  building
program  for  the  development  and  implementation  of  an  investment
promotion  strategy  for  API  and  other  selected  Borrower  agencies;  and

-5-

(ii)  technical  assistance  on  the  implementation  of the  strategic  plan  for
ADPME.

(c) 

Transport  sector  and  industrial  infrastructure  management  and
development

Enhancing 
industrial infrastructure  sectors,  through:

the  management  and  development  of  the 

transport  and

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

provision  of support to  revise  and update  the legal  framework  for
industrial infrastructure  development;

carrying out an institutional  and operational  diagnostic of the One
Stop  Shop for  trans-border  trade;

carrying  out  a  feasibility  study for  the  creation  of a  multimodal
transport  observatory;

carrying  out  a  policy  and  regulatory  diagnostic  of  trade  transit
fluidity through  the Targeted  Geographic  Areas;

provision  of  technical  assistance  to  implement  the  policy  and
regulatory improvement  recommendations  from the diagnostic;

carrying out studies to determine  support  services required  for the
Targeted Geographic  Areas;  and

(A) 

provision  of  capacity  building  for: 
the  design  and
development  of the  institutional  framework  for special  economic
zones;  (B)  the development  of an integrated  investment  planning
and  asset  management  strategy;  and (C)  the  carrying  out  of pre-
feasibility  analyses  for  industrial 
infrastructure  and  tourism
development.

Part 2:  Direct Support to MSMEs  to  Enhance the Development  and

Competitiveness  of  Selected  Value  Chains

Promoting  entrepreneurship  and  enhancing  Beneficiaries'  development  and
competitiveness  of selected  value chains in the Targeted  Sectors through:

(a) 

Entrepreneurship promotion and development

Provision  of  support  to  Beneficiaries  to  improve  their  products  and
services,  and to  access  national  and regional  markets  through,  inter alia:
(i)  carrying out  an  awareness  and outreach  campaign  for a business  plan

-6-

competition;  (ii) provision of capacity building and technical assistance  on
the  design  of  business  plans 
(iii)  provision  of
entrepreneurship  promotion and development  grants  ("EPD  Grants")  for
the  implementation  of  Subprojects;  and  (iv)  provision  of  technical
assistance  on business  sustainability.

for  Subprojects; 

(b) 

Support and Development  Grants

Provision  of support  and development  grants  to  Beneficiaries  to  improve
their  operational  and 
technical  capabilities 
for:
(i)  contracting  business  development  services, 
including  capacity
building;  (ii)  purchase  of equipment  to  be used  in  production  processes
and  construction,  lease,  or  rehabilitation  of  shared  infrastructure;  and
(iii)  providing  technical  assistance  to  organize  and  structure  selected
value-chains,  associations  and  cooperatives,  and  promote  commercial
relations.

("SD  Grants") 

Part 3:  Project Implementation and Coordination

Provision  of support  for the implementation,  coordination  and supervision  of the
Project  through  financing  of  costs  relating  to  the  Project's  institutional  and
governance 
and  carrying  out 
and
communications,  and evaluation  and monitoring  studies.

stakeholder  outreach 

arrangements, 

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Borrower  shall  designate,  at  all  times  through  Project  implementation,  the
MPSRI  to  be responsible  for prompt  and efficient  management,  implementation
and supervision of activities  under the  Project,  and shall take all necessary  action,
including the  provision  of funding,  personnel  and other  resources  to  enable  said
MPSRI to  perform the aforesaid functions.

The  Borrower  shall  maintain,  at  all  times  throughout  Project  implementation,  a
Steering  Committee,  under  terms  of reference  and composition  acceptable  to  the
Bank, which shall be responsible for providing strategic guidance, inter-ministerial
coordination and oversight of implementation  of the Project,  as further detailed in
the PIM.

The Borrower  shall maintain  within  the  MPSRI,  at  all  times  throughout  Project
implementation,  a  PMU,  with resources,  functions and staff in  adequate  numbers
and with  experience  and  qualifications  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  be
responsible  for,  inter alia, overall  management,  monitoring  and  evaluation  and
coordination  of the implementation  of the  activities  under the  Project,  as  further
detailed in  the PIM.

4. 

Not later than  three  (3)  months  after the Effective Date,  the Borrower,  through the
MPSRI,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

recruit, based on terms of reference  satisfactory to  the Bank, and thereafter
maintain throughout  the implementation of the Project,  additional staff for
the  PMU in order to  strengthen its functional  and geographic  coverage,  as
further detailed  in  the PIM;

establish  technical  working  groups,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  for  the
following  areas:  business  startup,  dealing  with  construction  permits,
access  to  electricity,  property  transfer,  paying  taxes,  and  trading  across
borders,  to  be  responsible  for  identifying  and  formulating  the reforms  to
be implemented under Part  1  of the  Project;

recruit  a  service  provider  ("Service  Provider  1"),  in  accordance  with
Section 5.13  of the General Conditions,  to assist in the carrying out of Part
2(a) of the Project,  based on terms  of reference satisfactory  to  the Bank;

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

(j) 

recruit  a  service  provider  ("Service  Provider  2"),  in  accordance  with
Section 5.13  of the General  Conditions,  to  assist in  the carrying out  of Part
2(b)  of the Project, based  on terms of reference  satisfactory to  the Bank;

to  facilitate the implementation  of Part  2  of the  Project,  establish  a Grant
Selection Committee,  based on terms  of reference satisfactory  to the Bank,
to  be responsible  for the selection  of Beneficiaries  and Subprojects  under
Part  2 of the Project.

5. 

B. 

1 .

Before  the  Effective  Date,  the  Borrower,  through  the  MPSRI,  shall  recruit  one
environmental  specialist  and  one  social  specialist,  based  on  terms  of reference
satisfactory to  the Bank, to  be part of the  PMU.

Project Implementation  Manual

The  Borrower  shall adopt  and maintain a  Project  Implementation  Manual  during
the  implementation of the Project,  in form  and  substance satisfactory to  the  Bank,
which shall provide details of arrangements  and procedures  for the implementation
of the Project, including,  inter alia:

the  detailed  description  of  Project  implementation  activities, 
sequencing  and  the prospective  timetable;

their

the institutional  arrangements  for the implementation  of the Project;

the  Project  administrative,  procurement,  environmental  and  social,
financial  management and disbursement  requirements  and procedures;

the plan  for the monitoring,  evaluation  and supervision of the Project;

the performance  indicators  for the  Project;

the  criteria  for the selection of the  Beneficiaries  and the Subprojects;

the  Subprojects  manual,  which  shall  include,  inter alia, the  terms  and
conditions  of the  Grant  Agreements,  including  the  level  of counterpart
funding  from  Beneficiaries;

the ESMF,  Subproject  ESMPs,  Subproject  ESIAs,  IPMP, RPF and  RAPs;

the administrative,  financial  and  accounting  procedures manual;  and

such  other  technical  and  organizational  arrangements  and  procedures  as
shall be required  for the Project.

-9-

2. 

3. 

C. 

1 .

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with 
the  Project
Implementation  Manual.  Except as  the  Bank shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the
Borrower  shall  not  amend,  abrogate,  waive  or  otherwise  fail  to  implement  any
provision of the Project  Implementation  Manual.

In the  event of any conflict between  the provisions  of the Project  Implementation
Manual  and  the provisions  of this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of this  Agreement
shall  prevail.

EPD Grants and SD  Grants

The  Borrower  shall,  through  MPSRI,  make  EPD  Grants  and  SD  Grants  to
Beneficiaries  for  carrying  out  Subprojects  in  accordance  with  eligibility  criteria
and  procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall  include,  inter alia,  that
Beneficiaries  shall:

be involved or willing to be involved in  the Targeted  Sectors;

have  prepared 
satisfactory 
implementation  plan  for the  proposed  Subproject;  and

a 

financing  plan  and  budget  and

have  committed  to  finance  a  portion  of  the  total  estimated  cost  of the
Subproject  out of its own  resources,  as  further detailed  in the PIM.

2. 

The  Borrower shall make, through  MPSRI, each  EPD Grant  and SD  Grant under
a  Grant  Agreement  with  the  respective  Beneficiary  on  terms  and  conditions
approved by  the Bank,  which  shall include  the  following:

The  EPD  Grant  and  SD  Grant  may be made  in  FCFA or  Euro  up  to  an
amount  equivalent  to $250,000,  on a non-reimbursable  grant basis.

The Borrower shall  obtain rights adequate to protect  its interests  and those
of the Bank, including the  right to:

(i) 

suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  the  Beneficiary  to  use  the
proceeds of the EPD Grant  and SD  Grant, or obtain a refund  of all
or  any part  of the  amount  of the  EPD  Grant  and  SD  Grant  then
withdrawn,  upon  the  Beneficiary's  failure  to  perform  any  of its
obligations  under the  Grant Agreement;  and

(ii) 

require  each Beneficiary  to:

(A) 

carry  out its  Subproject  with due diligence and  efficiency
and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical,  economic,
financial,  managerial,  environmental  and social  standards

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

- 10  -

and  practices  satisfactory 
accordance  with 
Instruments  and the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines;

to  the  Bank,  including  in
the  Safeguard

the  provisions  of 

provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  resources  required  for
the implementation  of the Subproject;

procure  the  goods  and services  to  be financed  out of the
EPD Grant or SD Grant in accordance  with the provisions
of this  Agreement;

maintain policies  and procedures  adequate  to  enable  it to
monitor  and  evaluate  in  accordance  with  performance
indicators  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  progress  of  the
Subproject  and the achievement  of its objectives;

(1)  maintain  a financial  management  system  and prepare
financial  statements 
in  accordance  with  consistently
applied accounting  standards acceptable to the Bank, both
in  a  manner adequate  to  reflect  its  operations,  including
the  operations,  resources  and expenditures  related  to  the
Subproject;  and  (2)  at  the  Bank's  or  the  Borrower's
request,  have  such  financial  statements  audited  by
independent  auditors  acceptable 
in
accordance  with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards
acceptable 
the
statements  as  so  audited  to  the Borrower  and the  Bank,
and  permit  the  Bank  to  make  such  statements  as  so
audited  available  to  the  public,  along  with  the  Grant
Agreement;

to  the  Bank,  and  promptly  furnish 

the  Bank, 

to 

the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to 

enable 
inspect  the
Subproject,  its  operation  and  any  relevant  records  and
documents;  and

prepare and furnish to  the Borrower and the Bank all such
information as  the Borrower or the  Bank shall reasonably
request relating  to the foregoing.

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

(E) 

(F) 

(G) 

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  and carry  out  its  obligations  under  each
Grant  Agreement  in  such  manner as  to  protect  the interests  of the  Borrower  and
the Bank and to accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.

Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the Borrower  shall not  assign,  amend,
abrogate or waive  any Grant Agreement  or  any of its provisions.

- 11  -

D. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

E. 

1 .

Annual Work Programs and Budget

The  Borrower  shall,  not  later  than  December  31  in  each  calendar  year  during
Project  implementation,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its  review  and
approval,  after  approval  by  the  Steering  Committee: 
(a)  a  program  of Project
activities  that  will  be  implemented  during  the  following  calendar  year,  , which
includes  detailed disbursement  forecasts and  budgets ("Annual  Work Program and
Budget");  and (b)  annual  reports  of the previous  calendar year.

The Borrower shall exchange views with and seek approval  from the Bank on each
such  proposed annual  work program,  and shall thereafter  carry  out such  program
of  activities  for  such  following  year  as  shall  have  been  agreed  between  the
Borrower and the Bank.

The  Annual  Work  Program  and  Budget  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  to
include  new activities  with the prior and written  concurrence  of the Bank.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
Safeguard  Instruments.  To  this  end,  the Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the following
actions  are taken in  a prompt manner acceptable  to the Bank:

(a) 

If any Project  activity would, pursuant to the ESMF:

(i) 

(ii) 

require the carrying out of an ESIA,  the Borrower shall ensure that
the ESIA  for such  activity  is:  (A)  carried out,  in accordance  with
the requirements  of the ESMF  and furnished  to  the  Bank  for  its
prior review and written approval;  and (B) disclosed and consulted
upon, in a form  and manner acceptable  to the Bank  and

require the preparation  of an ESMP, the Borrower shall ensure that
such  ESMP  is:  (A)  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  ESMF  and
furnished 
its  review  and  approval;  and
(B)  disclosed  and consulted  upon,  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the
Bank.

the  Bank  for 

to 

(b) 

If any Project activity would,  pursuant to the RPF, require the  preparation
of a  RAP,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that:  (i)  such  RAP  is  prepared  in
accordance  with  the RPF  and  furnished to  the  Bank  for its  prior  review
and  written approval;  (ii)  such RAP is  disclosed  and consulted  upon, in  a
manner acceptable  to the Bank;  and (iii)  no civil works under said  activity
shall  be  commenced  until  all  measures  required  to  be  taken  under  said
RAP,  including  but  not  limited to  prior payment  of compensation  to  all

- 12  -

Project  affected  persons,  shall  have  been  taken  in  a  form  and  manner
acceptable to  the Bank.

2. 

3. 

In  the  event  that  the need  for Resettlement  arises  during Project  implementation
due  to  unforeseen  circumstances,  the  Borrower  shall pay  from  its  own  resources
any  Resettlement  compensation  required  under the  Project,  including  any costs
associated with land  acquisition  and  Resettlement required under the Project.

Without  limitation  to  excluded  expenditures  set  forth  in  the  PIM,  the  following
shall not be eligible to be carried  out and/or funded under the Project:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

any  activities  that  would  lead  to  conversion  or  degradation  of critical
natural habitats  or their supporting  areas;

any activities that would lead to conversion  or degradation  of critical forest
areas, related critical  natural habitats;

any activities  that  would  involve potential  pollution  of the  Congo  River
Basin; and

(d) 

land  acquisition.

4. 

Without  limitation  to  its  other  reporting  obligations  under  this  Agreement  and
under Section  5.08  of the General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall:

(a) 

include  in  the  Project  Reports  referred  to  in  Section  II  of this  Schedule
adequate information on the implementation of the Safeguard  Instruments,
giving details  of:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

measures  taken in furtherance  of such  Safeguard  Instruments;

conditions,  if any,  which interfere  or threaten to  interfere with  the
smooth implementation  of such  Safeguard  Instruments;  and

remedial  measures  taken  or required  to  be  taken to address  such
conditions  and  to  ensure  the  continued  efficient  and  effective
implementation  of such Safeguard  Instruments;  and

(b) 

afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  the
Borrower on such  Project Reports.

5. 

The Borrower shall ensure  that any terms of reference for any consultancies related
to  technical  assistance or  capacity  building  under the Project  shall  be satisfactory
to  the  Bank following its  review thereof and, to  that  end, such  terms  of reference

- 13  -

shall  duly incorporate  the requirements  of the Safeguards  Instruments  and that are
satisfactory  to  the Bank.

6. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  and  publicize  the  availability  of grievance  redress
mechanisms  to  hear and determine  fairly and in good  faith all  complaints raised  in
relation  to the implementation  of the Project  by Project  affected persons,  and take
all  measures  necessary  to  implement  the  determinations  made  under  such
grievance  redress  mechanisms  in  a manner  acceptable  to  the Bank.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reportin2  and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later  than  one
month after the end of each calendar  semester,  covering the calendar  semester.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A. 

General

Without limitation upon  the provisions of Article II of the General  Conditions  and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds  of the Loan to:

finance  Eligible  Expenditures;

refund  the Preparation Advance;  and

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

pay:  (i) the Front-end  Fee; and  (ii)  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or Interest Rate
Collar  premium;  in  the  amount  allocated  and,  if  applicable,  up  to  the
percentage set  forth  against each  Category  of the following  table:

- 14  -

Amount  of the Loan 
Allocated
(expressed  in Euro) 

7,500,000 

Percentage  of
eentre  ob

financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)
100%

3,249,250 

100%

6,400,000 

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods,  works,  non- 
consulting services,
consulting services,
Training,  and
Operating Costs  for
Parts  1  and 3 of the
Project

(2)  Goods, works, non- 
consulting  services,
consulting  services,
EPD Grants,  Training,
and Operating Costs
for Part  2(a) of the
Project

(3)  Goods, works, non- 
consulting services,
consulting  services,  SD
Grants,  Training,  and
Operating  Costs  for
Part 2(b)  of the Project

(4)  Refund of the 

Preparation Advance 

3,100,000 

(5)  Front-end  Fee 

50,750 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.07  (a)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement 
in  accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  due  pursuant  to
Section  4.05 
(c)  of  the
General  Conditions

(6)  Interest  Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
premium 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

0 

20,300,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1 .

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A above,  no withdrawal  shall be made:

(a) 

for payments made prior to the Signature Date;

- 15  -

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

under Categories  2  and 3 unless  the  Grant  Selection  Committee  has been
established  in  accordance  with  Section  I.A.4(e)  of  Schedule  2  to  this
Agreement;

under  Category  2  unless  Service  Provider 
accordance  with Section  I.A.4(c)  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement;  or

1  has  been  recruited  in

under  Category  3  unless  Service  Provider  2  has  been  recruited  in
accordance  with  Section I.A.4(d)  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

2. 

The Closing  Date is  May 30,  2023.

- 16  -

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization  Repayment  Schedule

The  following  table  sets forth the  Principal  Payment Dates  of the Loan  and the percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Level  Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date 
On each  April  15  and October  15 
Beginning April  15,  2025
through April  15,  2039

On October  15,  2039 

Installment  Share
3.33%

3.43%

- 17  -

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

"ADPME"  means  Agence  pour  le  ddveloppement  des  petites  et  moyennes
entreprises,  the  Borrower's  agency  for  the  development  of small-  and  medium-
sized enterprises,  or  any successor thereto.

"Annual  Work Program and  Budget"  means the annual  work program and budget
to  be prepared by the  MPSRI and approved by the Steering Committee,  as set  forth
in  Section I.D.  of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

"Anti-Corruption Guidelines"  means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in Projects Financed by  IBRD Loans and IDA  Credits and Grants",
dated October  15,  2006  and revised in January 2011  and as of July  1,  2016.

"API"  means  Agence  pour  la  Promotion  des  investissements,  the  Borrower's
agency  for the promotion  of investments,  or any successor  thereto.

"Beneficiary"  means  an  aspiring,  new or  existing  entrepreneur that  is an  MSME,
or an  association  of MSMEs,  to  whom  the  Borrower  has  extended  or will  extend
an EPD Grant or  an SD  Grant.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth in  the  table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement.

Impact  Assessment"  or  "ESIA"  means  an
"Environmental  and  Social 
environmental  and  social  impact  assessment  for  a  Subproject,  to  be prepared  by
the  Borrower  in  accordance  with  the  parameters  laid  down  in  the  ESMF  and
acceptable to  the Bank,  identifying and assessing the potential  environmental  and
social impacts  of the activities to  be undertaken  for the activities under the Project,
evaluating  alternatives,  and  designing  appropriate  mitigation,  management,  and
monitoring  measures,  and  including  the  actions  needed  to  implement  these
measures.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Borrower's  Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale, dated April  8, 2018,
in-country  on  April  10,  2018,  and  at  the  Bank's  website  on
disclosed 
April  11,  2018,  setting  forth  the  procedures  to  be  used  for  the  preparation  and
approval  of  a  site-specific  Environmental  and  Social  Impact  Assessment  and/or
Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan  for  any  site  where  there  exists
environmental  and/or  social  issues  of a  type  and  scale  sufficient  to  trigger  the
Bank's  safeguard  policies,  as  said  framework  may be revised  from  time  to  time
with  the prior approval  of the Bank.

- 18  -

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan"  or  "ESMP" means  a  site-specific
or  Subproject  environmental  and social  management  plan  to  be prepared  by  the
Borrower  in  accordance  with  the  parameters  laid  down  in  the  ESMF  and
acceptable  to  the  Bank,  setting  forth  a  set  of  mitigation,  monitoring,  and
institutional  measures to  be taken during  the implementation  and operation  of the
activities under the  Project to  eliminate adverse environmental  and social impacts,
offset them,  or reduce them  to  acceptable levels, and  including the actions  needed
to  implement these measures.

"EPD Grant"  or "Entrepreneurship  Promotion and  Development  Grant"  means  a
grant  to be made by the  Borrower,  through  the MPSRI,  out of the proceeds  of the
Loan to  a Beneficiary  for a  Subproject  under  Part 2(a)(iii)  of the Project.

"FCFA" means  franc  of the Central  Africa Economic  and  Monetary  Community,
whose common  central  bank  is the  Bank of Central  African  States.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated July  14, 2017.

"Grant  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  between  the  Borrower,  through  the
MPSRI,  and a Beneficiary  providing for a Grant.

"Grant  Selection  Committee"  means  the  committee  to  be  established  by  the
Borrower in accordance  to  Section  I.A.4(e)  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement.

"Integrated  Pest  Management  Plan"  or  "IPMP"  means  the  Borrower's  Cadre de
Gestion de Peste et Pesticides (CGPP),  dated  April  8,  2018,  disclosed in-country
on  April  10,  2018,  and  at  the  Bank's  website  on  April  11,  2018,  which:
(i)  addresses  the  concems  relating  to  the  Project  risks  associated  with  potential
increases  in  the  use  of pesticides  for agricultural  production,  intensification  and
diversification;  (ii)  sets  forth  mitigation  and  monitoring  measures  to  be  taken
during Project  implementation  and  operation  to eliminate  adverse  environmental
levels;
them,  or  reduce 
and  social 
(iii)  recommends  institutional  measures  to  strengthen  national  capacities  to
implement  the  mitigation  and  monitoring  measures;  and  (iv)  as  part  of  the
implementation  arrangements,  identifies national  agencies  and other partners that
could play a  vital role  in  the  success  of the Project,  as  said  Plan may be  revised
from time to  time with the prior  approval  of the  Bank.

impacts,  offset 

to  acceptable 

them 

"MPSRI"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Planning  Statistics  and  Regional
Integration  or any successor thereto.

"MSME" means  micro-,  small-  and medium-size  enterprise  as  defined  under the
Borrower's  MSME  Promotion  and Development  Law No.  046-2014.

- 19  -

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"One  Stop  Shop"  means  Guichet  Unique  des  Operations  Transfrontaliers,  the
Borrower's  entity in  charge of processing trans-border  trade procedures.

"Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  incremental  expenses,  based  on  annual
budgets  approved  by  the  Bank, incurred  by  the  Borrower  on  account  of Project
implementation,  management,  and  monitoring,  including  for office  space  rental,
utilities,  and  supplies,  bank  charges,  communications,  vehicle  operation,
maintenance,  and  insurance,  building  and  equipment  maintenance,  advertising
expenses,  travel and supervision,  salaries and statutory contributions of contractual
and  temporary  staff,  but  excluding  salaries,  fees,  honoraria,  and  bonuses  of
members  of the Borrower's  civil  service.

"Preparation  Advance"  means  the  advance  referred  to  in  Section  2.07  (a)  of the
General  Conditions,  granted  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  letter
agreement  signed  on  behalf of the  Bank  on  February  28,  2018,  and  on behalf of
the  Borrower on March  20, 2018.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers",  dated July 2016,  revised November  2017.

"Project  Implementation  Manual"  or "PIM"  means  the  manual  to  be  established
for the Project as referred  to  in  Section 4.0 1(b)  of this  Agreement.

"Project  Management  Unit" or "PMU" means  the unit established by the Borrower
within the MPSRI  to be in charge  of overseeing the day-to-day  implementation  of
the Project,  as  further detailed in the PIM.

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of  an  involuntary  taking  of  land  under  the
Project,  which taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have their:  (a)  standard  of living
adversely  affected;  or  (b)  right,  title  or  interest  in  any  house,  land  (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (c)  access  to  productive
assets  adversely affected, temporarily or permanently;  or (d)  business, occupation,
temporarily  or
work  or  place  of  residence  or  habitat  adversely  affected, 
permanently.

"Resettlement  Action Plan" or "RAP" means each  site-specific  resettlement action
plan prepared and to be prepared  pursuant to the RPF pursuant  to  Section I.E. 1.(b)
of Schedule 2  to this  Agreement,  for a set of activities  included under the  Project,
giving  details  of the  specific  actions,  measures  and policies  required  to  provide
compensation,  rehabilitation  and resettlement  assistance  to  any Project  affected
persons,  along with the procedural  and institutional measures needed to implement
such actions,  measures  and policies; and the term "RAPs"  or "Resettlement  Action
Plans"  means,  collectively,  all  such  plans.

- 20  -

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

"RPF"  means the  Borrower's  resettlement  policy framework  for the Project,  dated
April  8,  2018,  and  disclosed  in-country  on  April  10,  2018,  and  at  the  Bank's
website on  April  11, 2018,  containing the  guidelines,  procedures,  timetables,  and
other  specifications  for  the  preparation,  adoption,  and  implementation  and
monitoring  of  a  Resettlement  Action  Plan  or  Plans,  and  referred  to  in  Section
I.E.1(b)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  for  provision  of compensation  and
resettlement  assistance  for  any  Project  affected  persons,  as  the  same  may  be
amended from time to time with the prior written agreement  of the Bank.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means  collectively  or  individually  the ESMF,  the  RPF,
the IPMP, as well  as any ESIAs, and RAPs prepared in  connection to  the Project,
if any.

"SD  Grant" or "Support  and Development  Grant"  means  a grant to be made by  the
Borrower,  through the MPSRI,  out of the proceeds  of the Loan to a Beneficiary  for
a Subproject under Part  2(b)  of the Project.

"Service  Provider  " means the  service provider to be recruited in accordance  with
Section  I.A.4(c)  of Schedule 2 to  this Agreement.

"Service  Provider 2" means the service  provider to be recruited in accordance  with
Section  I.A.4(d) of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

"Signature  Date"  means the  later of the  two dates  on which the  Borrower  and  the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such definition  applies  to  all  references  to  "the
date  of the Loan Agreement"  in the  General  Conditions.

"Steering  Committee"  means  the  committee to be  established  by  the  Borrower  in
accordance  to  Section I.A.2  of Schedule  to this Agreement.

"Subprojects"  means  a  specific  subproject  under  Part  2(a)  of the  Project  to  be
carried out  by a Beneficiary  utilizing  the proceeds of a Grant.

"Targeted  Geographic  Areas"  means  areas  along  and  within  the  Point  Noire-
Brazzaville-Ouesso  corridor,  including the  urban  and  peri-urban  agglomerations
of Point Noire  and Brazzaville.

"Targeted  Sectors"  means,  inter  alia, agriculture  and  agribusiness,  tourism,
transport,  and  information  and communication technology.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  associated  with  training  and  workshop
participation  under  the  Project,  based  on  annual budgets  approved by  the  Bank,
consisting of travel and subsistence costs  for training participants,  costs associated
with  securing the  services  of trainers,  rental of training  facilities,  preparation  and
reproduction  of training  materials  and  other  costs  directly  related  to  course  or
workshop preparation  and implementation.

