OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8849-CN

Loan Agreement

(Jiangxi  Integrated Rural  and Urban  Water Supply and
Wastewater  Management Project)

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC  OF CHINA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8849-CN

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of the  Signature  Date  between  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
OF  CHINA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and the Bank hereby agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as  defined in the Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply to
and form  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have  the meanings  ascribed to  them  in the  General  Conditions  or in the Appendix
to  this  Agreement.

ARTICLE II- LOAN

2.01.  The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of two  hundred  million
Dollars  (USD  200,000,000),  as  such amount  may be  converted  from  time to time
through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project
described  in  Schedule  I  to  this Agreement ("Project").

2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw  the proceeds of the Loan  in accordance  with  Section

III  of Schedule 2 to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end Fee  is  one quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan amount.

2.04.  The Commitment Charge is  one quarter of one  percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the

Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread  or such rate as may
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06. 

The Payment  Dates are June  1  and  December  1  in each  year.

2.07. 

The principal  amount of the  Loan shall be repaid  in accordance  with  Schedule  3 to
this Agreement.

2.08. 

(a) 

If on  any given  day,  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of
this  Section),  the Borrower  shall pay to the Bank a surcharge  at the rate of
one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess

-2-

Exposure  Amount  (as defined  in sub-paragraph  (b)(i) of this Section)  for
each  said  day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall be payable  semi-annually in  arrears  on each  Payment  Date.

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount" means for each day  during
which the Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total  amount  of said  excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio  of all  (or,  if the  Bank  so determines,  a portion)  of the  Loan
to  the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or the  equivalent  portions)  of the
loans made  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower  and to  other borrowers
guaranteed  by  the  Borrower  that  are  also  subject  to  an exposure
surcharge,  as said excess and ratio  are reasonably determined  from
time to time by  the Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower  which,  if exceeded,
would subject  the Loan to  the Exposure  Surcharge, as determined
from time to  time by the  Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure  to  the  Borrower,  as  reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Project
Implementing Entity in accordance  with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions,  Schedule  2  to  this Agreement  and  the Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional  Event  of Suspension  consists of the following,  namely,  that any of
the  parties  to  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of their
respective  obligations  thereunder.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01. 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the  following,  namely,  that
the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  executed  on behalf  of Project  Implementing
Entity  and  Provincial  Water  Investment  Group  in accordance  with  Section  I.A.2
of the  Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement.

-3-

5.02. 

The Additional  Legal  Matter consists of the following,  namely,  that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been duly authorized  or ratified by the Project  Implementing Entity
and Provincial  Water Investment  Group, respectively,  and  is legally binding upon
the parties thereto  in accordance  with its  terms.

5.03. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and twenty  (120)  days  after
the Signature  Date.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is its  Minister of Finance.

6.02. 

For  purposes  of  Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:  (a)  the  Borrower's
address is:

6.03. 

For  purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:  (a) the  Bank's  address
is:

Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Xicheng District
Beijing  100820
People's Republic  of China;  and

(b)  the  Borrower's Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile: (86-10)  6855-2077

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America;  and

(b)  the Bank's Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED as of the  Signature  Date.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF  CHINA

-4-.

By

Name:

By

Name: 

Title: 

Date:

Authorized  Representative

Title: 

/ 

__ 

__

Date:____________

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT

Authoriz  Representative

- C 

I

(
-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The objectives  of the Project  are:  (a)  to  increase  access  to,  and improve operating
efficiency  of,  water  supply  services;  and  (b)  to  pilot  provision  of improved  wastewater
management in  selected  counties  in  Jiangxi  Province.

The Project  consists of the following parts:

Part  1:  Expansion,  Rehabilitation,  and Modernization  of Water Supply  System

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

(i)  Construction,  upgrade,  repair  and/or rehabilitation  of urban  and rural
water  supply infrastructure  including  water intake  works, water treatment
works  and water  distribution  works  such  as  pump  stations,  transmission
and distribution  pipelines  and  control  valves;  and  (ii)  installation  and/or
replacement  of urban  and rural  household  water service  connections  and
corresponding  water meters.

Design,  procurement,  installation  and  trial  operation  of a  Smart  Water
Supply Management  System.

Carrying  out  of  energy  audits  of  pump  stations  and  water  supply  and
treatment plants,  preparation of audit reports  and carrying  out of remedial
measures  recommended  in such reports.

Conducting  technical  studies  designed  to  inform  modernization  of rural
water supply management  in Jiangxi  Province,  including  studies  on rural
water  pricing  and  on  alternative  models 
for  rural  water  supply
management.

Design,  construction  and  trial  operation  of  wastewater  management
system  in  Zhajin  town  in  Xiushui  County,  such  a  system  to  comprise  a
treatment plant,  sewerage  pipelines, household  sewer connections,  as well
as  related  public  outreach  and  system  management,  operation  and
maintenance.

Conducting  technical  studies  designed  to  improve  rural  wastewater
management 
in  Jiangxi  Province  including  a  study  on  sustainable
mechanism  for rural  wastewater  management  and  a  feasibility  study  on
public-private partnership  approach  for rural wastewater management.

Part 2:  Demonstration of Rural  Wastewater  Management

-6-

Part 3:  Public Engagement  and Project Management

(a) 

(b) 

Carrying  out a  program  to  integrate  public  and community  participation
into  the  Project,  such  a  program  to  include  such  activities  as:  (i)  public
dissemination,  mobilization,  and training  (including media  outreach);  (ii)
establishment  of community  participation mechanisms;  (iii) promotion  of
women's  participation  in  Project  activities  through  inter  alia  gender-
sensitive  needs assessment;  (iv) participatory  design  for household sewers
connections;  (v)  participatory management  of local  water supply systems;
(vi) participatory  monitoring  of water quality;  (vii)  public participation  in
water  supply  and  wastewater  management 
system  operation  and
maintenance;  and  (viii) behavioral  change  campaigns.

Supporting  the  overall  capacity  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and
Project  Counties  to coordinate, manage  and supervise  the implementation
of the  Project  through  such  activities  as:  (i)  undertaking  preliminary  and
final  engineering  designs  and  preparing  bidding  documents; 
(ii)
construction  supervision;  (iii)  technical  review  of  studies  undertaken
under  the  Project;  (iv)  training  and  study  tours;  and  (v)  procurement  of
office  equipment and  vehicles.

(c) 

Establishment  and  operation  of  an  integrated  management  information
system and  a monitoring  and  evaluation  system.

-7-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Financing Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

For the purposes  of carrying out the Project,  the  Borrower shall make available  the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  under  terms  and
conditions  acceptable  to  the Bank, including the  following principal  terms:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  principal  amount  shall  be  made  available  in  Dollars  or  any  other
Currency  as  the  Loan  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a
Currency  Conversion  of  the  value  of  the  currency  or  currencies  so
withdrawn  (such principal  amount  determined  on the  date,  or respective
dates,  of withdrawal  from the  Loan Account).

The principal  amount so made available  (including an  amount equal  to the
fee  paid pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of this  Agreement)  shall  be recovered
over  a period  of twenty-nine  (29)  years,  inclusive  of a grace  period of six
(6) years.

Interest  shall  be  charged  on  such  principal  amount  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  time  to  time  at  a  rate  equal  to  the  rate  of  interest
applicable  from  time  to  time  to  the  Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
Section  2.05 of this  Agreement.

(d) 

A  Commitment  Charge  shall  be  charged  equal  to  one  quarter  of  one
percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on the Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing  Entity to: (a) manage, operate,
monitor,  transfer  and  reconcile  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  made  available  to  it
pursuant  to  paragraph  I  above  in  accordance  with  arrangements  and  procedures
acceptable  to the  Bank;  (b)  take all required  actions, including provision of timely
consents  and  approvals  as  may be  necessary,  to  facilitate  the  utilization  of said
Loan proceeds  and  the  implementation  of the  Project  and,  to  enable  the  Project
its  undertakings  under  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  to  comply  with 
Agreement;  and  (c)  maintain  all  relevant  records  and  documents  related  to  the
Loan  and the Project  and provide promptly such documents  and records, including
all other Project  related  information,  as  may be  requested by  the Borrower  or the
Bank  from time to time.

-8-

B. 

Safeguards  and Dam  Safety  Measures

The Borrower  shall take,  and  shall cause  the Project  Implementing Entity to  take,
all  measures  necessary  to  comply  with,  or  all  measures  necessary  to  enable  the
Project  Implementing  Entity to comply with,  the provisions  of Section  I.B  and I.C
of the  Schedule  to the  Project  Agreement.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reportina and Evaluation

The  Borrower shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to furnish  to  the  Bank
each  Project  Report  not  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  the  end  of each  calendar
semester,  covering  the calendar  semester.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of Loan  Proceeds

A. 

General

Without  limitation upon the provisions of Article  II of the General  Conditions  and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  (b)  pay the Front-end Fee;  in the amount allocated and,  if applicable,
up to  the percentage  set forth  against  each  Category  of the following  table:

Category 

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in 
USD)

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

199,500,000 

100%

(1)  Goods,  Works,  Consulting
services,  Training  and  Workshops, 
Incremental  Operating  Costs  and
Non-consulting  services  for 
the
Project
(2) Front-end  Fee 

500,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement 
in  accordance
with  Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions

TOTAL AMOUNT 

200,000,000

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the provisions  of Part A  above,  no withdrawal  shall be made  for
payments  made  prior  to  the  Signature  Date,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate amount not to exceed USD 40,000,000  may be made for payments made

-9-

prior  to this date but  on or after January  23,  2018  for Eligible  Expenditures  under
Category  (1).

2. 

The Closing Date is June  30,  2024.

-10-

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked Amortization  Repayment Schedule

The following  table  sets forth  the Principal  Payment  Dates  of the Loan  and the  percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment Share").

Principal Payment Date 

June  1,  2024 
December  1,  2024 
June  1,  2025 
December  1,  2025 
June  1,  2026 
December 01,  2026 
June  1,  2027 
December  1,  2027 
June  1,  2028 
December  1,  2028 
June  1,  2029 
December  1,  2029 
June  1,  2030 
December  1,  2030 
June  1,  2031 
December  1,  2031 
June  1,  2032 
December  1,  2032 
June  1,  2033 
December  1,  2033 
June  1,  2034 
December  1,  2034 
June  1,  2035 
December  1,  2035 
June  1,  2036 
December  1,  2036 
June  1,  2037 
December  1,  2037 
June  1,  2038 
December  1,  2038 
June  1,  2039 
December  1,  2039 
June  1,  2040 
December  1,  2040 

Installment Share
1.18%
1.21%
1.24%
1.27%
1.30%
1.34%
1.37%
1.40%
1.44%
1.47%
1.51%
1.55%
1.59%

1.63%

1.67%
1.71%
1.75%
1.80%
1.84%
1.89%
1.93%
1.98%
2.03%
2.08%
2.13%
2.19%
2.24%
2.30%
2.36%
2.42%
2.48%
2.54%
2.60%
2.67%

-11-

2.73%
2.80%
2.87%
2.94%
3.02%
3.09%
3.17%
3.25%
3.33%
3.41%
3.50%
3.78%

June  1,  2041 
December  1, 2041 
June  1,  2042 
December  1, 2042 
June  1,  2043 
December  1, 2043 
June  1,  2044 
December  1, 2044 
June  1,  2045 
December  1, 2045 
June  1,  2046 
December  1, 2046 

-12-

APPENDIX

Section  I. 

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Annual  Dam  Safety  Action  Plan" means  each  of the plans  referred  to in Section
I.C.4 of Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement.

"Annual  Work  Plan"  means  each  of  the  consolidated  annual  work  plans  and
budgets  for  the  Project  to  be  prepared  or  updated  by  PWIG,  submitted  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  and  approved  by  the  Bank,  on  an  annual  basis  as
provided  for  in  Section  I.A.5  of the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement;  and
"Annual Work Plans"  means,  collectively,  all such plans.

Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in Projects Financed by  IBRD Loans and IDA  Credits and Grants",
dated October  15, 2006  and revised in January  2011  and  as of July  1,  2016.

"Bank's  Safeguards  Policies"  means  the  operational  policies  and  procedures  for
the financing  of development  projects  by  the  Bank  at the  date  of this  Agreement
and  relating  to  Environmental  Assessment,  Natural  Habitats,  Pest  Management,
Indigenous  Peoples  (Ethnic  Minorities),  Physical  Cultural  Resources,  Involuntary
Resettlement,  Forests,  Safety of Dams,  Projects on  International  Waterways,  and
Projects  in  Disputed  Areas,  as  published  under http://policies.worldbank.org/ 
to
the extent  they are  applicable to  the Project.

"Beneficiary  Participation  Manual"  means  a  guideline  prepared  by  the  Project
Implementing Entity on how  to implement  activities  under Part 3(a) of the Project.

"Category"  means  a category  set  forth  in  the table  in  Section  III.A of Schedule  2
to this  Agreement.

"County Project  Implementing  Unit" means  the unit referred to  in Section  I.A. 1(e)
of the  Schedule to  the Project Agreement,  and any successor thereto.

"County  Project  Leading  Group"  means the group  referred to  in  Section  I.A.1(d)
of the  Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement,  and any successor  thereto.

"Ecological  Protection  Group"  means  the entity  referred to  in  Section  I.A. 1(g)  of
the  Schedule to the Project  Agreement,  and any successor thereto.

10. 

"Environmental  Impact Assessment"  means the  environmental  impact assessment
report, acceptable  to  the Bank,  dated November  2017 and  disclosed on the Bank's
external  website  (documents  and  reports)  on  November  26,  2017  (Report  No.
SFG3822).

-13-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

and  Social  Management  Plan"  or  "ESMP"  means 

the
"Environmental 
environmental  and  social management plan  for the Project,  acceptable  to the Bank,
dated  November  2017  and  disclosed  on the  Bank's  external  website  (documents
and  reports)  on  November  25,  2017  (Report  No.  SFG3778),  which  sets  out  the
environmental  and social  protection measures  in respect  of the Project - including
for dam safety measures and measures for protection  of physical cultural resources,
as  well  as  administrative,  monitoring,  supervision  and  training  arrangements  to
ensure  the  implementation  of said plan,  as  said plan  may  be  revised from  time to
time  with  the  prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank,  and  such  term  includes  all
schedules  and  annexes  supplemental  thereto.

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated July  14, 2017.

"Global  Expert  Group"  means  the  group  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.1(i)  of the
Schedule to  the Project Agreement,  and any successor thereto.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  reasonable  costs  incurred  for  purposes
of  Project  management  and  implementation  based  on  the  Annual  Work  Plans
approved  in  advance  by  the  Bank,  on  account  of  office  rental,  supplies  and
consumables,  utilities,  bank  charges,  communications,  mass  media  and printing
services, 
translation  services,  vehicle  rental,  operation,
local
maintenance,  and 
transportation,  domestic  travel,  lodging,  and  subsistence  allowances,  and  salaries
of  contractual  and  temporary  staff,  but  excluding  salaries  and  any  salary
supplements  of members  of the  Borrower's  or  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's
civil  service.

insurance,  building  and  equipment  maintenance, 

interpretation  and 

"Independent  Expert"  means  any of the  independent  qualified  dam  professionals
who  have  not  been  involved  with  the  investigation,  design,  construction,  or
operation of the dam that  they are tasked  to inspect.

"Jiangxi  Provincial  Water  Resources  Department"  and  the  acronym  "PWRD"
mean  the  agency  of the  Jiangxi  Province  responsible  for  water resources,  or  any
successor thereto.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers",  dated July  2016, revised November  2017.

"Project  Affected  Persons" means  persons who,  on account  of the execution of the
Project,  have experienced  or would experience  direct economic  and social  impacts
caused  by:  (a)  the  involuntary taking of land,  resulting  in: (i)  relocation  or  loss  of
shelter;  (ii)  loss  of assets  or  access  to  assets;  or  (iii)  loss  of income  sources  or

-14-

means  of livelihood,  whether  or not  such persons  must move  to  another  location;
or (b) the involuntary restriction  of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas, resulting in adverse impacts  on the livelihood  of such persons;  and a "Project
Affected  Person"  means  any  of such Project  Affected  Persons.

"Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the  Bank  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  of even  date  herewith,  as  the  same  may  be amended  from
time to time;  and  such term includes all schedules  and agreements supplemental  to
the  Project  Agreement.

"Project  Counties"  means, collectively,  the following counties of Jiangxi  Province
selected  to  participate  in  the  Project:  Yongxin;  Linchuan;  Dongxiang;  Jinxi;
Nanfeng;  Xiushui;  and Leping, provided  that the list of such  Project Counties may
be  amended  from  time to  time with  the  prior written  agreement  of the Bank;  and
"Project  County"  means,  individually,  any of such  Project  Counties.

"Project  Dams"  means  the  existing  dams/  reservoirs  on  which  the  Project  is
directly dependent  as listed in  the Environmental  and  Social  Management  Plan.

"Project  Implementation  Plan"  means  the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  plan
dated  February 2018,  acceptable  to the Bank, which  incorporates the  Procurement
Plan,  procurement  manual,  financial  management  manual,  the  Project's  results
framework  and performance  indicators,  technical  modules,  and other  operational
arrangements  for  the Project,  as  the  same  may be revised  from  time to  time  with
the  prior written agreement  of the  Bank.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  the  Borrower's  Jiangxi  Province,  or  any
successor  thereto.

"Provincial  Project  Implementing  Unit"  means  the  unit  referred  to  in  Section
I.A. 1(c)  of the  Schedule to the Project  Agreement,  and any successor thereto.

"Provincial  Project Leading Group" means the group referred to in Section I.A. 1(a)
of the  Schedule to the  Project  Agreement,  and any successor thereto.

"Provincial  Project  Management  Office"  means the  office  referred  to  in  Section
I.A. 1(b)  of the  Schedule  to  the Project  Agreement,  and any successor thereto.

"Provincial  Water  Investment  Group"  and  the  acronym  "PWIG"  mean  the  state-
owned enterprise  established and operating  according to  the  laws of the Borrower
and responsible  for providing integrated  urban  and  rural water  supply services  in
Jiangxi Province.

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

"Resettlement  Action  Plan"  or "RAP"  means the  consolidated  resettlement  action
plan  for the  Project,  acceptable  to the  Bank, dated  October 2017  and disclosed  on

-15-

the  Bank's  external  website  (documents  and  reports)  on  November  26,  2017
(Report  No. SFG  3830),  setting forth,  inter alia: (i) the principles  and procedures
governing  the acquisition of land  required for the Project  and related facilities;  (ii)
actions  and measures for the payment of compensation to Project Affected  Persons
and  for their  resettlement  and  rehabilitation;  (iii)  grievance  redress  mechanisms;
and  (iv)  reporting  and  monitoring  arrangements  to  ensure  compliance  with  said
plan, as the same may be revised  from time to time with the prior written agreement
of the Bank; and such term  includes  all attachments  and annexes  supplemental  to
said plan.

"Safeguards  Instruments"  means,  collectively,  Beneficiary  Participation  Manual,
Environmental  Impact  Assessment,  Environmental  and  Social Management  Plan,
and  Resettlement  Action Plan,  as well  as any attachments,  schedules  and annexes
supplemental  to  said instruments.

"Signature  Date"  means  the later  of the two  dates  on which  the Borrower and  the
Bank  signed  this Agreement  and such  definition  applies  to  all references  to  "the
date  of the Loan  Agreement"  in the General  Conditions.

"Smart  Water  Supply  Management  System"  means the system  of sensors,  meters,
controls,  data  transmission  devices,  data  storage  and  processing  equipment,
management  and  end-user  terminals,  software,  user  interfaces  and  applications,
and  other  associated  infrastructure  designed  and  developed  under the  project  to
monitor, manage, and control  the  water and  wastewater systems.

to  the  Project  Agreement, 

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.A.2  of the
into  between  Project
Schedule 
Implementing  Entity  and  PWIG,  acceptable  to the  Bank,  in  accordance  with  the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  Annex  to  the  Schedule  to  the  Project
Agreement.

to  be  entered 

"Technical  Expert  Panel  Unit"  means  the  group referred  to in  Section  I.A.1(h)  of
the Schedule  to the  Project  Agreement,  and  any successor  thereto.

"Training  and Workshops"  means the costs  of training activities  under the Project,
based  on  the  Annual  Work  Plans,  and  attributable  to  seminars,  workshops,  and
domestic  and  overseas  training,  along  with travel  and  subsistence  allowances  for
training  participants,  services  of trainers,  rental  of training  facilities,  preparation
and  reproduction  of  training  materials,  and  other  activities  directly  related  to
course  preparation  and implementation.

"Water  Affairs  Group"  means  a  subsidiary  company  of  PWIG,  referred  to  in
Section  I.A.I(f)  of  the  Schedule  to  the  Project  Agreement,  responsible  for
provision  of water  supply  services  in  the  Jiangxi  Province,  and  any  successor
thereto.

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

