OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8999-AR

Loan Agreement

(Improving Inclusion  in Secondary  and Higher Education)

ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  ARGENTINE  REPUBLIC
BANK 
AND

("Borrower") 
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and the  Bank hereby  agree as follows:

FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 

INTERNATIONAL 

and 

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions (as defined  in the Appendix to  this Agreement)  apply to  and form
part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless  the  context  requires  otherwise,  the  capitalized  terms  used  in this  Agreement  have
the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the  Appendix  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE II- LOAN

2.01. 

The Bank agrees  to  lend to the  Borrower,  on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred
to in this Agreement,  the amount  of three hundred  forty-one million United  States Dollars
($341,000,000),  as such  amount  may  be converted  from time  to time  through a Currency
Conversion  ("Loan"),  to assist in financing:

(a)  the program,  as described  in Part  1  of Schedule  1  to  this Agreement  ("Program");  and

(b)  the project,  as described  in Part 2 of Schedule  I  to this Agreement ("Project"),

(the Program and  the Project hereinafter jointly referred  to as the  "Operation").

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  Section  IV  of
Schedule 2  to this Agreement.  All  withdrawals  from  the Loan  Account shall be  deposited
by  the  Bank  into  the  account  specified  by the  Borrower  and  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  The
Borrower's  Representatives  for  purposes  of taking any  action  required  or permitted  to  be
taken  pursuant  to  this  Section  are  its  Minister  of  Treasury, 
its  Undersecretary  of
International  Financial  Relations,  or its  National  Director of Financing  with  International
Credit Institutions.

The Front-end  Fee  is  one  quarter of one percent (0.25%)  of the Loan  amount.

The  Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter  of  one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

The  interest rate  is the  Reference  Rate  plus the  Variable  Spread  or such  rate  as may apply
following  a  Conversion; subject  to  Section 3.02(e) of the  General Conditions.

2.02. 

2.03. 

2.04. 

2.05. 

2.06. 

The  Payment  Dates  are April  15  and  October  15  in each year.

1

2.07. 

The  principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement.

ARTICLE III - OPERATION

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its commitment to the  objectives  of the Operation.  To this end, the
Borrower  shall  carry out the  Operation  through  MH  and  MECCyT,  with  the  assistance  of
Participating  Provinces  (as  provided  under  the  relevant  Participation  Agreements),  all  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article V  of the  General  Conditions  and  Schedule  2 to
this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES  OF THE BANK

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  consists  of  the  following,  namely,  that  the
the
APRENDER  Legal  Framework, 
PROGRESAR Legal Framework shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived  so  as to affect,  materially  and  adversely,  in  the opinion  of the Bank,  the  ability
of the  Borrower to carry  out the Operation.

the  ASISTIRE  Legal  Framework,  and/or 

4.02.  The  Additional  Event of Acceleration  consists of the  following,  namely,  that any  of the
events specified  in paragraph  4.01  of this Agreement  occurs  and  is continuing  for a period
of sixty (60)  days  after notice  of the event  has  been given by the  Bank to the Borrower.

ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  one  hundred  and  twenty  (120)  days  after  the

Signature  Date.

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.02  of this  Agreement  and  in  the  ESCP,  the  Borrower's
Representative  is its Minister  of Treasury.

6.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) the  Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry of Treasury,  Piso 5
Hip6lito  Yrigoyen 250
C 1086  AAB,  Buenos Aires
Argentina;  and

(b) the  Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

E-mail:
secpriv@mecon.gob.ar

2

6.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a)  the  Bank's  address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States  of America;  and

(b) the  Bank's Electronic  Address  is:

Telex: 

Facsimile: 

E-mail

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391 

jschwartz3@worldbank.org

AGREED  as of the  Signature  Date.

ARGENTINE  REPUB  IC

orized  Representati:*

Name:  Jorge  Roberto  Hernn  Lacunza

Title:  Minister  of Treasury

Date:  november  14  2019

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Auth 

ized Representative

Name: 

&' 

ck tv

Title:,

Date: 

L&1& 

; 

o

By

By

3

SCHEDULE  1

Operation Description

The  objectives  of the  Operation  are  to:  (a)  reduce  dropout  rates  in  Basic  and  Higher
Education  among  the  most  vulnerable;  and  (b)  strengthen  the  Borrower's  education  evaluation
systems.

The Operation  consists  of the Program  (Part  1)  and the  Project (Part 2),  as  follows:

Part 1:  Support to PROGRESAR,  APRENDER,  ENSENAR  (the Program)

The  Program consists of the  following  selected  results  areas and  activities:

A.  Improve  the targeting,  management,  monitoring  and efficiency  of PROGRESAR,  through
the financing of PROGRESAR  scholarships,  and the carrying out of a program of activities
to:

1.  ensure that higher education  institutions submit on time the  academic certifications
for scholarship applicants,  so that their eligibility can be assessed during the inscription
period  and the  conditionality  on enrollment can be enforced;

2. 

improve the  progression  of students  in their careers;

improve  the  effectiveness  of the  strategic  career  incentives  in  place  in  Higher

3. 
Education;

4.  design  and  implement  an  action  plan  to  overcome  non-financial  barriers  for
education  progression  and  completion,  including  the  dissemination  of tools  through  a
website;  and

5.  develop  an  action  plan for  a phased implementation  of an  academic  certification
system for Basic  Education  scholars.

B.  Support  the  Borrower's  national  evaluation  systems  for  students,  teachers  and  teacher
training  institutes,  through  the  financing  of  annual  census-based  APRENDER  student
evaluations  for the period 2020-2023,  teacher evaluations  for teacher training  scholarships,
and  teacher  training  institute  evaluations  under  ENSENAR,  and  the  carrying  out  of  a
program  of activities to:

1. 

increase  the  coverage  of APRENDER,  focusing  on  the  Participating  Provinces  that
report lowest  coverage;

2.  support the  use  of the  APRENDER  summary  reports  by school  principals  to  enhance

pedagogical  practices;  and

3. 

implement an  evaluation  system for teacher  training institutes.

4

Part 2:  Strengthening 

the  Design,
Implementation,  and  Monitoring  and  Evaluation,  of  PROGRESAR,  ENSElSAR,
APRENDER,  and ASISTIRE  (the Project)

Institutional  Capacity 

the  Borrower's 

for 

The  Project consists  of the  following  parts:

1.  Strengthen  PROGRESAR  through  activities  to  improve  its  information  management
system,  support  scholarship  beneficiaries  in  their  education  trajectories  with  tailored
interventions  for the  most  vulnerable,  and  evaluate  results,  including but  not  limited
to:

(a)  improving  the  information  and  management  systems  to  enhance  the  application
process,  and  to  monitor  eligibility  requirements,  and  the  certification  of regular
attendance  of students  in Basic Education  receiving  support from PROGRESAR;

(b)  introducing  a  national  helpdesk  to  support  students  and  institutions 

in  the

application  process;

(c)  carrying out studies to estimate PROGRESAR scholarships'  coverage  and  develop

a  prioritization  strategy  to select beneficiaries;

(d)  designing  and  implementing interventions  to  close  information gaps;

(e)  carrying  out  a  diagnosis  of the  main  non-financial  barriers  that  students  face  to

progress  in their studies  and graduate;

(f)  developing  tools  for  students  to  close  critical  cognitive  and  non-cognitive  skills

gaps  through  evidence-based  interventions;  and

(g)  piloting a  mentoring program,  jointly with NEXOS.

2.  Support  the  SEE,  including  institutional  strengthening  of  the  evaluating  units  of
Participating  Provinces 
that  are  responsible  for  local 
through
technical  assistance  for,  inter alia, the  following  activities:

implementation, 

(a)  implementing APRENDER  by  SEE and Participating  Provinces;

(b)  adding  new modules  to APRENDER  to measure,  inter alia, socio-emotional  skills

and  household  and  family-related  variables;

(c)  conducting  studies to analyze APRENDER  data;

(d)  developing  tools  to  assess  teaching  practices,  including  tools  for  self-evaluation
and  improvement,  and  the  adaptation  and  piloting  of the  TEACH  Tool  for  class
observation;  and

5

(e)  design  of  instruments  for  self  and  external  evaluation  of  teaching  training

institutes.

3.  Strengthen the  expansion  and  implementation  of ASISTIRE,  through,  inter alia:

(a)  scaling  up  ASISTIRE 

(i)
strengthening  the  capacity  of the  national  and  provincial  based teams,  including
hiring  and  training  key  staff;  and  (ii)  acquiring  key  inputs  for  ASISTIRE's
implementation,  such  as tablets  with  connectivity;  and

in  selected  vulnerable  schools  nationwide  by: 

(b)  Revamping  ASISTIRE  by:  (i)  improving  accuracy  of early  warning  systems;  (ii)
strengthening the delivery and evidence-based  content of ASISTIRE  interventions;
(iii)  strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of  stakeholders  and  SEE  staff;  (iv)
reinforcing the  channels for family-school  communication;  and  supporting impact
and process  evaluations.

4.  Strengthen the institutional capacity  of MECCyT to manage,  administer,  and supervise
the  implementation  of the  Operation,  including,  but not  limited  to,  support  on:  (a)
monitoring  and evaluation;  (b) development of a beneficiary  feedback mechanism;  and
(c)  the  carrying out of independent  audits for the Operation;  and  (d)  carrying out DLR
compliance  verification.

6

SCHEDULE  2

Operation Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Operation Institutions

A. 

1. 

B. 

1  .

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out the  Operation  through  MH  and  MECCyT  (including  SGE,
SEE  and  DNB),  with  the  following  distribution  of roles  and  responsibilities,  as  further
detailed  in the  Operational  Manual:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

MH,  through  DPPEESA,  shall  have  overall  implementation  oversight  of  the
Operation  and  shall  take  any  actions  related  to  withdrawals  pursuant  to  Section
2.02 of this Agreement;

DNB  shall  be  responsible  for  activities  under  PROGRESAR,  and  for  the
coordination  of the  Operation,  for  fiduciary  aspects,  technical  and  operational
decision-making,  and for monitoring  and  evaluation;

SEE  shall  be responsible  for  student  and  teacher  evaluations,  including  activities
under APRENDER and  ENSE&~AR;  and

SGE  shall be  responsible  for activities  under ASISTIRE.

Operational  Manual

Without  limitation to the provisions  of Article V of the General  Conditions,  the Borrower,
through  MH  and  MECCyT,  shall  carry  out,  and  cause the  Operation  to  be carried  out,  in
accordance  with  the  Operational  Manual,  which  shall  include,  inter alia: (a)  the  Program
Action Plan; (b) the  Fiduciary, Environmental  and  Social  Systems for the  Program;  (c)  the
Targets  and  Verification  Protocols  for  DLIs  and  DLRs  and  the  Results  Monitoring
Framework;  (d)  the  functions,  responsibilities  and  composition  of implementation  teams
in  MH,  MECCYT,  DPPEESA,  SGE,  SEE,  and  DNB, 
in  charge  of  Program
implementation,  including their obligation to  comply with the  Anti-Corruption Guidelines
and follow-up  on any related  allegation;  (e)  a detailed description  of Project  activities and
institutional  arrangements  for  the  Project;  (f)  the  Project  administrative,  accounting,
auditing,  reporting,  financial (including cash flow aspects  in relation thereto), procurement
and  disbursement  procedures;  (g)  the  monitoring  indicators  for  the  Project;  (h)  the
grievance  mechanisms;  (i) the  institutional  and administrative  arrangements  established to
ensure  inter-institutional  coordination;  (j) the  functions,  responsibilities  and  composition
of implementation  teams  in  MECCyT,  DPPEESA,  SGE,  SEE,  DNB,  and  Participating
Provinces  in charge  of Project  implementation,  including their obligation  to comply  with
the  ESCP; and  (k) the criteria for selection  of Participating  Provinces;  and (1)  a model  form
of the  Participation  Agreement.

7

2. 

3. 

C. 

1. 

2. 

E. 

1. 

2. 

Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree  in  writing,  the  Borrower,  through  MH  and
MECCyT  shall  not  abrogate,  amend,  suspend,  waive  or  otherwise  fail  to  enforce  the
Operational  Manual or  any provision  thereof.

In  case  of any  conflict  between the  terms  of the  Operational  Manual  and this Agreement,
the provisions  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

DLR Verification Arrangements

The  Borrower, through  MECCyT,  shall appoint a verification  agent  for the  Program that is
acceptable  to the Bank,  in  accordance  with the  terms of reference  acceptable  to the Bank.

The Borrower,  through MECCyT,  shall  ensure that the  verification  agent referred  to  in the
preceding  paragraph  shall:  (a)  verify  the  data  and  other  evidence  supporting  the
achievement(s)  of one or more  DLRs and recommend  corresponding  payments to be  made,
as  applicable,  in  accordance  with the  Verification  Protocol  agreed  with  the  Bank;  and (b)
submit to the  MECCyT and  MH the  corresponding verification  reports  in a  timely manner
and  in form  and  substance  satisfactory to the  Bank.

D. 

Program Action  Plan

The Borrower,  through  MECCyT and  MH,  shall:

1. 

2. 

3. 

undertake the actions set forth in the Program Action  Plan  in a manner  satisfactory
to the  Bank;

except  as the Bank and  the  Borrower  shall otherwise  agree  in writing,  not assign,
amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,  or  permit  to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated,  or
waived, the  Program  Action  Plan, or any  provision thereof;  and

maintain  policies and  procedures adequate  to enable  it to monitor and  evaluate,  in
accordance  with  guidelines  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  the  implementation  of  the
Program  Action Plan.

Environmental and  Social  Standards for the Project

The Borrower, through  MECCyT,  shall ensure  that the Project is carried out in accordance
with the  Environmental  and  Social  Standards,  in  a manner acceptable  to the Bank.

Without limitation  upon  paragraph  I  above, the  Borrower, through  MECCyT,  shall ensure
that  the  Project  is  implemented  in  accordance  with  the  Environmental  and  Social
Commitment  Plan  ("ESCP"),  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Bank.  To  this  end,  the
Borrower,  through  MECCyT,  shall  ensure that:

(a) 

the  measures  and  actions  specified  in  the  ESCP  are  implemented  with  due
diligence and  efficiency,  and  as further  specified  in the  ESCP;

(b) 

sufficient  funds are available  to cover the  costs of implementing  the  ESCP;

8

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

policies,  procedures  and  qualified  staff are  maintained  to  enable  it to  implement
the  ESCP, as  further  specified in the ESCP;  and

the  ESCP  or any  provision  thereof,  is  not  amended,  revised  or waived,  except  as
the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree  in  writing  and  the  Borrower  has,  thereafter,
disclosed the  revised  ESCP.

In case  of any  inconsistencies  between the ESCP and the  provisions of this Agreement,  the
provisions  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

3. 

The Borrower,  through MECCyT,  shall:

take all measures  necessary on  its part to collect,  compile,  and furnish to the Bank
through regular  reports,  with  the  frequency  specified  in  the  ESCP,  and  promptly
in  a  separate  report  or  reports,  if so  requested  by  the  Bank,  information  on  the
status  of compliance  with  the  ESCP  and  the  management  tools  and  instruments
referred  to  therein, all  such reports  in form  and  substance  acceptable  to the  Bank,
setting out,  inter  alia:  (i) the  status of implementation  of the  ESCP; (ii)  conditions,
if  any,  which  interfere  or  threaten  to  interfere  with  the  implementation  of  the
ESCP;  and  (iii)  corrective  and  preventive  measures  taken  or required  to  be taken
to address  such conditions;  and

the  affected  communities, 

promptly notify the Bank of any  incident or accident related to or having an impact
on the  Project  which  has,  or  is  likely  to  have,  a significant  adverse  effect  on the
environment, 
including,
explosions,  spills,  and  any  workplace  accidents  that  result  in  death,  serious  or
multiple  injury,  pollution,  or  any  violent  labor  unrest  or  dispute  between  the
Borrower  or  security  forces  (assigned 
local
communities,  any  case  of gender-based  violence  and  violence  against minors,  in
accordance  with 
the 
the
Environmental  and  Social  Standards.

to  protect  the  Project)  and 

the  public  or  workers, 

therein  and 

the  ESCP, 

instruments 

referenced 

4. 

5. 

The  Borrower,  through  MECCyT,  shall  maintain  and  publicize  the  availability  of  a
grievance  mechanism, 
in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  hear  and
determine  fairly  and  in  good  faith  all complaints  raised in  relation to the  Project and  take
all  measures  necessary  to  implement  the  determinations  made  by  such  mechanism  in  a
manner satisfactory to  the Bank.

Without  limitation upon paragraphs  1  and  2 above, the  Borrower, through  MECCyT, shall
ensure  that  terms  of  reference  for  studies,  capacity  building  and  any  other  technical
assistance provided  under the Project are prepared in a manner satisfactory to the  Bank and
duly  incorporate  and  take  into  consideration  the  requirements  of the  Environmental  and
Social  Standards.

9

Participation Agreements

F. 

1. 

For  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  activities  under  Parts  2.2  and  2.3  of the  Project,  the
Borrower,  through MECCYT  shall:

(a)  prior to  carrying  out any  activities  under the Project with  each  Participating  Province,
enter  into  an  agreement  (the  Participation  Agreement)  with  each  such  Participating
Province,  setting  forth, as  applicable,  in accordance  with  the  Operational  Manual:  (i)
the technical,  financial,  administrative,  environmental,  social, and  fiduciary  aspects of
the  Project; (ii)  the  rights and  obligations  of MECCYT  and  Participating  Provinces  in
relation  to their respective  participation  in the implementation  of Project activities;  and
(iii)  the  use  of Loan  funds  under  Part 2.2  of the  Project  and  its  reporting,  all  under
terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to the Bank;

(b)  cause each Participating  Province to take all necessary  and applicable  actions to enable
the Borrower to comply with its pertinent obligations as set forth under this Agreement,
including  those  set forth  or  referred  to  in the  General  Conditions  for the  Project,  the
Operational  Manual,  the  ESCP,  and  the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines,  in respect to the
carrying  out of the Project,  as it may  apply to the  Participating  Province;  and

(c)  (i)  exercise  its rights and  carry  out its obligations  under each Participation  Agreement
in  such  a  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to
accomplish  the purposes of the Loan; and  (ii)  except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  repeal,  terminate,  waive  or  fail  to  enforce  any
Participation  Agreement  or any provision thereof.

2. 

In  case  of any  conflict  among the  provisions of any  Participation  Agreement,  those  of the
Operational  Manual,  and those of this Agreement,  the  provisions  of this Agreement  shall
prevail.

Section  H. 

Excluded  Activities

The Borrower shall  ensure that the  Program  excludes  any activities  which:

A. 

B. 

in the opinion  of the  Bank, are  likely to  have significant adverse  impacts that are sensitive,
diverse, or unprecedented  on the  environment  and/or affected people;  or

involve  the  procurement  of:  (1)  works;  (2)  goods,  estimated  to cost  seventy-five  million
Dollars  ($75,000,000)  equivalent  or  more  per  contract;  (3)  non-consulting  services,
estimated  to  cost  seventy-five  million  Dollars  ($75,000,000)  equivalent  or  more  per
contract;  or (4)  consulting services,  estimated  to cost thirty  million Dollars ($30,000,000)
equivalent  or more per  contract.

Section  HI.  Monitorine Reportiniz and Evaluation

The  Borrower,  through  MH  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  and  Program
Report not  later than  forty-five  days  after the  end  of each calendar  semester,  covering  the
calendar semester.

10

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General.

A. 

1. 

Without limitation upon the provisions  of Article II of the Program General Conditions and
Article  II of the  Project General  Conditions, and  in accordance  with the  Disbursement  and
Financial  Information  Letter,  the Borrower may  withdraw the  proceeds  of the Loan  to:

(a) 

(b) 

with respect to the  Program: (i) finance  Program Expenditures  (inclusive  of Taxes,
except  for  any  taxes  levied  for financial  transactions),  on the  basis  of the  results
("Disbursement  Linked  Results"  or  "DLRs")  achieved  by  the  Borrower,  as
measured  against  specific  indicators  ("Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or
"DLIs")  in  the  amounts  allocated  against  Categories  (1)  through  (8);  (ii)  pay  the
Front-end-Fee;  and  (iii)  pay  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar
premium;  all as  set forth in the table  in paragraph  2 of this Part A;  and

with respect to the Project:  (i)  finance  Eligible Expenditures;  (ii) pay the Front-end
Fee;  and  (iii) pay  each  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar premium;  in the
amount  allocated  and,  if applicable,  up  to  the  percentage  set  forth  against  each
Category  of the table  in paragraph 2  of this  Part A.

2. 

The following table  specifies  each  category  of withdrawal  of the  proceeds  of the Loan  and
allocated  amounts  for each  such  Category,  including,  as applicable:  (a)  the  Disbursement
Linked  Indicators  under  the  Program  financed  under Categories  (1)  through  (8);  and  (b)
the  Eligible  Expenditures  under  the  Project  financed  under  Category  (9),  as  well  as the
financing percentage  thereof.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  for purposes  of Categories
(1)  through  (8)  of the  table below,  the  actual  amount  authorized  for disbursement  against
each Disbursement  Linked Result  corresponding  to  a Disbursement  Linked Indicator  are
set forth  in the Disbursement  and Financial  Information  Letter.

Amount of the Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures to be
Allocated  to DLRs 
(expressed  in USD) 

financed
(inclusive  of Taxes,  except  for
any taxes  levied  for financial
transactions)
N/A

100,000,000 

Category 
(including Disbursement 
Linked  Indicator, as 
applicable) 

(1)  DLI #1:  Percentage  of 
Higher Education  scholarship
candidates  whose academic
information  has been  provided
by their academic  institution

(2)  DLI#2:  Percentage  of 
Higher Education  scholars  that
have  renewed their  scholarship

80,000,000 

N/A

11

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

100%

3,000,000 

N/A

(3)  DLI#3:  Percentage  of first- 
year Higher Education  scholars
enrolled  in  Strategic  Careers

(4)  DLI#4:  Tools to diagnose 
and  overcome non-financial
barriers  to education
progression  and  completion
designed  and  implemented

(5)  DLI#5:  Academic 
certification  system for Basic
Education scholars
implemented

(6)  DLI#6:  Percentage  of 
Basic Education  students
assessed through the
APRENDER  evaluation  in the
Participating  Provinces  with
Lowest  Coverage

(7)  DLI#7:  Percentage  of 
school principals  using the
APRENDER  Summary  Report
to enhance  pedagogical
practices

(8)  DLI#8:  Diagnostic 
evaluation  system  for teacher
training  institutes  implemented

(9)  Goods,  non-consulting 
services,  consulting  services,
Training  and  Operating  Costs
for the  Project

40,000,000 

60,000,000 

10,000,000 

4,500,000 

2,500,000 

40,147,500 

12

(10)  Front-end  Fee 

852,500 

Amount  payable pursuant to
Section  2.03  of this Agreement  in
accordance  with:
(i)  Section 2.05  (b)  of the
Program  General  Conditions;  and
(ii)  Section  2.07  (b)  of the  Project
General  Conditions

(11)  Interest Rate  Cap  or 
Interest Rate Collar premium 

0 

TOTAL 

341,000,000

Withdrawal  Conditions  for the Program

Amount  due pursuant  to:  (i)
Section 4.05 (c)  of the  Program
General  Conditions;  and  (ii)
Section  4.05  (c)  of the Project
General  Conditions

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  above, no withdrawal  shall be made:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

for purposes  of Section 2.03  of the Program General Conditions,  for DLR achieved
prior to the Signature  Date, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate  amount not
to  exceed  $70,000,000  may  be  made  for  such  DLRs,  as  further  described  and
detailed  in  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  achieved  prior  to
this date  but  on  or  after October  1,  2019  (but  in no case  more  than one  year prior
to the  Signature  Date);

for  any  DLR  (as further  described  and  detailed  in the Disbursement  and  Financial
Information  Letter)  under Categories  (1)  to  (8)  until  and unless  the  Borrower  has
furnished  evidence  satisfactory to  the  Bank that said  DLR has  been  achieved,  as
further  detailed  in the  Verification  Protocols;

under  Categories  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6),  and  (7),  until  after  the  date  specified  in  the
Disbursement and  Financial  Information  letter for the  respective DLR under each
DLI.

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  B.1  of this  Section,  if any  of the  DLRs  under
Categories  (1)  to  (8),  except for Non-Scalable  DLRs,  as further  described  and detailed  in
the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  has  not been  achieved  by the  date  by
which  the  said  DLR  is  set  to  be  achieved  (as  per  the  Disbursement  and  Financial
Information  Letter),  the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:  (a) authorize  the withdrawal
of such  lesser  amount  of the  unwithdrawn  proceeds  of the  Loan  then  allocated  to  said
Category  which,  in the  opinion  of the  Bank,  corresponds  to  the  extent  of achievement  of
said  DLRs  (Scalable  DLRs),  said  lesser  amount  to  be  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
formula  set forth  in the  Operational Manual;  (b)  reallocate  all or a  portion of the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated  to said DLRs to  any other DLR within the same DLI;  and/or (c)
cancel  all  or a portion  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan then allocated to  said  DLR.

Withdrawal Conditions  for the Project

Notwithstanding  the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal  shall be made  for payments
under  the  Project  made  prior  to  the  Signature  Date,  except  that  withdrawals  up  to  an
aggregate  amount  not to  exceed $5,000,000  may be  made for payments  made  prior to  this
date  but  on  or  after November  8,  2018  (but  in  no  case  more  than  one  year  prior  to  the
Signature  Date),  for Eligible Expenditures  under Category  (9).

13

B. 

1  .

2. 

C. 

1 .

D. 

1. 

Operation Withdrawal Period

The Closing Date is June 30, 2023.

14

SCHEDULE  3

Commitment-Linked  Amortization Repayment  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the Principal  Payment Dates  of the  Loan  and  the percentage  of the
total  principal amount  of the Loan  payable on each Principal Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").

Level Principal Repayments

Principal Payment  Date 

On each April  15  and  October  15 

Beginning  October  15,  2026

through April  15,  2051

Installment Share

2%

15

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means:  (a)  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the  Appendix  to
the  General  Conditions  for  the  Program,  the  Bank's  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and Corruption  in  Program-for-Results  Financing",  dated  February  1,
2012,  and  revised  July  10,  2015; and  (b)  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the  Appendix  to
the  General  Conditions  for  the  Project,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Fraud  and  Corruption  in Projects  Financed by IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits and  Grants",
dated  October  15,  2006 and  revised  in January 2011  and  as of July  1, 2016.

"APRENDER"  means  the  Borrower's  national  program  to  improve  student  evaluations,
which  administers  a  national  standardized  student  test  in  the  last  years  of  Primary
Education  (61  and  7 1h  grade), and  Secondary  Education  (51  and  61 grade),  established  and
in
operating  pursuant  to  the  APRENDER  Legal  Framework,  as  further  described 
https://www.argentina.gob.ar/educacion/aprender,  or any  successor  thereto  acceptable  to
the Bank.

issued  by  the
"APRENDER  Legal  Framework"  means  the  following  resolutions 
Borrower's  Federal  Education  Council:  (a)  Resolution  CFE No.  285/16 (Plan Estratigico
Nacional 2016-2021  -Argentina  Enseila y  Aprende--)  dated  August  23,  2016;  and  (b)
Resolution CFE 280/16,  dated  May  18,  2016.

"APRENDER  Summary Report"  means, for purposes  of DLI#7  the  report made available
to each  school principal after the application of a standardized  student assessment  in his/her
school,  containing the  results  of the  assessment for said  school.

to  provide
"ASISTIRE"  means  the  Borrower's  program  at  the  provincial 
comprehensive  support  to  prevent  school  dropout,  consisting  of an  early  warning  system
to  identify  at  risk  students  and  interventions  to  prevent  school  dropout  at  the  Secondary
education  level,  established and  operating pursuant to the ASISTIRE Legal  Framework,  or
any  successor thereto  acceptable  to  the Bank.

level 

"ASISTIRE  Legal Framework" means: (a) the National Education Law; (b) the Borrower's
National  Law  for the  Integral  Protection  of the Rights  of Children  and  Adolescents  (Law
No.  26,061  dated  September  28,  2005;  (c)  Law  No.  13,688  dated  June  27,  2007  of the
Borrower's  Province  of Buenos Aires;  (d)  Law No.  13,298  dated  December  29,  2004  of
the  Borrower's  Province  of Buenos Aires;  (e)  Declaration  of Purmamarca  issued  by the
Borrower's  Federal  Education  Council  on  February  12,  2016;  (f)  Ministerial  Resolution
93/09  issued by the  Borrower's  Federal  Education  Council  on December  17,  2009; (g)  the
Borrower's National  Education  Strategic  Plan  2016-2021  "Argentina Enseila y Aprende";
(h) Declaration  of Buenos Aires (Educaci6n 2030),  signed during the Regional Meeting of
the  Ministers  of Education  of Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  on January  24-25,  2017;
(i)  General  Regulations  for  Education  Institutes  of  the  Province  of  Buenos  Aires
(Provincial  Decree 2299/11  dated  November  22,  2011);  (j)  Resolution  No.  143/17  of the
Inclusion  Table,  dated  May  11,  2017;  (k)  Resolution No.  736/12  regarding  Absenteeism

16

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

dated May 21,  2012;  and (1)  Resolution No.  5 87/11  regarding the Academic Regime  dated
March 22, 2011.

"Basic  Education" means Primary Education  and  Secondary  Education.

"Basic  and  Higher  Education"  Basic  Education and  Higher Education.

"Category"  means a category  set forth in the  table  in Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule  2 to  this
Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked Indicator"  or "DLI" means,  in respect of Categories (1)  through (8),
the  indicator related to  each Category as set forth in the table in Section  IV.A.2 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.

"Disbursement  Linked  Result"  or "DLR"  means,  in  respect of Categories  (1)  through (8),
the  result under  said Category,  as  set forth  in the Disbursement  and  Financial  Information
Letter  on the basis  of the  achievement  of which,  the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated to said
result  may  be  withdrawn,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  said  Disbursement  and
Financial  Information  Letter.

"DNB"  means  Direcci6n  Nacional de  Becas  Educativas,  the  Borrower's  National
Directorate  for Educational  Scholarships  under SGE,  or any  successor  thereto  acceptable
to  the Bank.

"DPPEESA"  means  Direccidn  de  Programas y  Proyectos  Especiales  con  Enfoque
SectorialAmplio, the Borrower's  Directorate  for Special  Programs and Projects with Wide
Sectoral  Scope,  or any  successor thereto acceptable  to the Bank.

"ENSENAR"  means  the  Borrower's  national  program  to  improve  teacher  evaluations,
which  administers  a  national  standardized  test  for  soon-to-be  graduates  of the  teacher
training  institutes,  and  self-evaluation 
institutional  assessments  of  teacher  training
institutes,  created  pursuant  to  the  ENSENAR  Legal  Framework,  as  further  described  in
https://www.argentina.gob.ar/educacion/enseiar,  or  any  successor  thereto  acceptable  to
the Bank.

"ENSE&AR  Legal  Framework"  means the following resolutions  issued by the Borrower's
Federal  Education  Council:  (a)  Resolution  CFE  No.  285/16  (Plan Estratigico Nacional
2016-2021  -Argentina Enseila y Aprende--)  dated  August  23,  2016;  and  (b)  Resolution
CFE 324/17, dated August 2, 2017.

"Environmental  and  Social  Commitment  Plan"  or  the  acronym  "ESCP"  means  the
Borrower's  environmental  and  social commitment plan,  acceptable to the Bank,  dated May
31,  2019,  which  sets  out a  summary  of the  material  measures  and  actions  to  address  the
potential environmental  and social risks  and impacts of the  Project, including the timing of
the  actions  and  measures, 
institutional,  staffing,  training,  monitoring  and  reporting
arrangements,  and any  instruments  to be prepared thereunder;  as the ESCP may be revised
from time  to time,  with  prior written  agreement  of the  Bank , and  such  term  includes any
annexes  or schedules  to  such plan.

17

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

"Environmental  and  Social  Standards"  means,  collectively:  (i)  "Environmental  and  Social
Standard  1:  Assessment  and  Management  of  Environmental  and  Social  Risks  and
Impacts";  (ii)  "Environmental  and Social  Standard 2:  Labor and Working Conditions";  (iii)
"Environmental  and  Social  Standard  3:  Resource  Efficiency  and  Pollution Prevention  and
Management";  (iv)  "Environmental  and  Social  Standard  4:  Community  Health  and
Safety"; (v)  "Environmental  and Social Standard 5: Land Acquisition, Restrictions on Land
(vi)  "Environmental  and  Social  Standard  6:
Use  and  Involuntary  Resettlement"; 
Biodiversity  Conservation  and  Sustainable  Management  of  Living  Natural  Resources";
(vii) "Environmental  and  Social  Standard  7:  Indigenous Peoples/Sub-Saharan  Historically
Underserved  Traditional  Local Communities";  (viii) "Environmental  and Social  Standard
and  Social  Standard  9:  Financial
8:  Cultural  Heritage"; 
Intermediaries";  (x) "Environmental  and  Social  Standard  10: Stakeholder Engagement  and
Information  Disclosure";  effective  on  October  1,  2018,  as  published  by  the  Bank  at
http://www.worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/environmental-and-social-framework.

(ix)  "Environmental 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  General  Conditions  for  the  Program  and  the  General
Conditions for the Project.

"General  Conditions  for the  Program"  means the  "International  Bank  for Reconstruction
for  1BRD  Financing,  Program-for-Results
and  Development  General  Conditions 
Financing",  dated  December  14,  2018.

"General Conditions for the Project" means the "International  Bank for Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project  Financing",
dated  December  14,  2018.

"Higher  Education"  means:  (i)  institutes  for  teacher  training  (Institutos de  Formacidn
Docente ");  (ii)  professional  institutions;  and (iii)  universities.

"MECCyT"  means  Ministerio  de  Educaci6n,  Cultura,  Ciencia y  Tecnologia,  the
Borrower's  Ministry  of Education,  Culture,  Science  and  Technology,  or  any  successor
thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"MH"  means  Ministerio de  Hacienda, the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Treasury,  or  any
successor thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"National  Education  Law"  means  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  26.206  -Ley  de Educaci6n
Nacional-, dated  December  14,  2006,  as amended to the date  of this Agreement.

"NEXOS"  means  the  Borrower's  national  program  to  improve  transition  between
Secondary  Education  and  Higher  Education,  by  supporting  vulnerable  students  through
information,  remedial  education,  mentoring,  among  others,  as  further  described  in
https://www.argentina.gobar/educacion/universidades/rograma-nexos,  or  any  successor
thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

18

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

"Non-Scalable  DLRs" means  the DLRs that cannot be achieved partially and  which require
full  attainment  to  trigger  a  disbursement,  as  further  detailed  in  the  Disbursement  and
Financial  Information  Letter.

"Operating  Costs"  means the  reasonable  incremental  operational  costs related to technical
and  administrative  management,  preparation,  monitoring  and  supervision  required  under
the  Project,  including,  inter alia, office  supplies,  travel  costs  (including  accomodations,
transportation  costs,  and  per  diem),  printing  services,  communication  costs,  utilities,
maintenance  of office  equipment  and  facilities,  vehicle  operation  and  maintenance  costs,
and logistics services.

"Operation"  means collectively,  the  Program and  the Project.

"Operational  Manual  means  the  manual  dated  May  31,  2019,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  as  approved  by  the  Borrower,  and  referred  to  in  Section  I.B  of
Schedule  2 to  this Agreement,  as  said manual  may  be amended  from  time to time  with the
prior and  written agreement  of the  Bank.

"Participation  Agreement"  means  any  of  the  Agreements  referred  to  in  Section  I.F  of
Schedule  2 to this Agreement.

"Participating  Province"  means any political  subdivision of the  Borrower  as per Title  Two
of  the  Borrower's  National  Constitution,  which  meets  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual  to participate under the Project,  and the term  "Participating  Provinces"
means all of said political  subdivisions.

"Participating  Provinces  with  Lowest  Coverage"  means,  for  purposes  of  DLI#6,  the
Participating  Provinces  in the  lowest  quartile  of student participation  rates  nationwide,  in
the  preceding  evaluations  for  the  corresponding 
in  the
Operational  Manual.

level,  as  further  described 

"Primary  Education"  means  the  Borrower's  Educaci6n Primaria provided  to  children  of
6-year  old  and  above  up to  grade  6  or  7  (as  the  case  may be,  pursuant  to  the  provincial
education  legislation, in the  Borrower's territory), pursuant to the National  Education Law.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix  to  the
General  Conditions,  the  "World Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for IPF Borrowers",  dated
July 2016,  revised November  2017  and August 2018.

"Program  Action  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  plan,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory to
the  Bank  and  referred  to  in Section  I.D  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  and  attached to
the  Operational Manual,  as said plan may be amended  from time  to time with the prior and
written  agreement of the  Bank.

"Program  Fiduciary,  Environmental,  and  Social  Systems"  means  the  Borrower's  systems
for  the  Program  referred  to  in  Section  I.B.1  (b)  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  and
attached  to the  Operational  Manual,  as  said  systems  may be  amended  from  time  to  time
with the  prior and  written agreement of the  Bank.

19

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

"PROGRESAR"  means Programa de Respaldo a Estudiantes Argentinos, the  Borrower's
national  program to provide  financial support to  students from the poorest  socio-economic
households  to complete  Basic  Education,  and to  access  and complete  Higher Education,
established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  PROGRESAR  Legal  Framework,  as  further
described  in  https://www.arzentina.gob.ar/becasprogresar,  or  any  successor  thereto
acceptable  to the Bank.

"PROGRESAR  Legal  Framework"  means:  (a)  the  Borrower's  National  Education  Law;
(b)  the  Borrower's  Decree  No.  84/2014,  dated  January  23,  2014,  as  amended  by  Decree
No. 90/2018,  dated January 30,  2018; and (c) the  following MECCyT  Resolutions:  (i) No.
2534/2018,  dated  August 27,  2018; (ii)  No. E  19/2018, dated  February  1,  2018; (iii) No. E
20/2018,  dated February  1, 2018; (iv) No.  65/2018,  dated March  6,  2018; (v) No. 76/2018,
dated  March  19,  2018.

"Results  Monitoring Framework"  means the  Borrower's monitoring framework  including
the performance  indicators  for the Program and attached to the  Operational Manual,  as said
indicators  may  be  amended  from time  to time  with the prior and  written  agreement of the
Bank.

"Scalable  DLRs" means the  DLRs that can  be  achieved  partially and  which do not require
full  attainment  to  trigger  a  disbursement,  as  further  detailed  in  the  Disbursement  and
Financial  Information  Letter.

"Secondary  Education"  means the  Borrower's  Educacidn Secundaria provided  to  youth
having completed  Primary  Education,  pursuant to  the National  Education  Law.

"SEE"  means  Secretaria de  Evaluacidn  Educativa,  the  Borrower's  Secretariat  of
Education Evaluation  under MECCyT,  or any successor  thereto acceptable  to the  Bank.

"SGE" means Secretaria de Gestidn Educativa, the Borrower's Secretariat  for Educational
Management  under MECCyT,  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Signature  Date"  means  the  later  of the  two  dates  on  which  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank
signed this Agreement  and such definition applies to  all references  to "the date of the  Loan
Agreement"  in the  General Conditions.

"Strategic  Careers"  means,  for  purposes  of DLI#3,  the  careers  agreed  with  the  Bank  and
specified  in the Operational  Manual.

"Targets  and Protocols  for DLIs  and  DLRs" means  the  milestones/values  to be  achieved
under  each  DLI  and  DLR,  including  scalability  criteria  and  detailed  protocols  to assess
compliance  of said  DLIs  and  DLRs,  in  form  and  substance  satisfactory  to the  Bank  and
attached  to the  Operational  Manual,  as  said targets  and  protocols  may be  amended  from
time to  time with the prior  and written  agreement  of the  Bank.

47. 

"Teach  Tool"  means  an  open  source  classroom  observation  tool,  as  further described  in
http://saber.worldbank.org/index.cfm?indx=5&sub-7#aboutTeach.

20

48. 

49. 

"Training"  means  expenditures  (other  than  those  for  consulting  services)  incurred  in
connection  with  the  carrying  out  of  training,  seminars,  and  workshops,  including  the
reasonable  travel  costs  (e.g.,  accommodations,  transportation  costs,  and  per  diem)  of
trainees  and  trainers  (if applicable),  catering,  rental  of training  facilities  and  equipment,
logistics and  printing  services,  as well as training materials  under the  Project.

"Verification  Protocols" means the protocol agreed by the Bank and the Borrower to verify
the  data and other  evidence  supporting the  achievement  of one  or more  DLIs and  DLRs as
specified  in  the  Operational  Manual.  Such  protocols  may be modified  from time  to time
with the  agreement  of the  Bank.

21

