OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8958-KE

Loan Agreement

(Affordable  Housing  Finance  Project)

REPUBLIC  OF KENYA

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

LOAN  NUMBER  8958-KE

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date  between  the  REPUBLIC  OF
KENYA  ("Borrower")  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank").  The Borrower  and  the  Bank hereby  agree  as follows:

ARTICLE  I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The General  Conditions  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement)  apply  to
and  form  part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context  requires otherwise,  the capitalized  terms  used  in this Agreement
have the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the  General  Conditions  or  in  the Appendix
to  this Agreement.

ARTICLE  II- LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to  the  Borrower  the  amount  of  two  hundred  nineteen
million Euro,  (EUR  219,000,000),  as such  amount  may be  converted  from  time to
time  through  a  Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project
described  in  Schedule  1  to  this Agreement  ("Project").

2.02. 

The Borrower  may withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with Section
III of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  is  one  quarter of one  percent (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04. 

The Commitment  Charge  is  one  quarter of one percent  (0.25%)  per annum  on  the
Unwithdrawn  Loan Balance.

2.05. 

2.06. 

The interest  rate  is the  Reference  Rate  plus  the  Fixed  Spread  or  such  rate  as may
to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject 
Conditions.

The Borrower  elects to  apply  the  Automatic  Rate  Fixing  Conversion  to  the Loan.
Accordingly,  without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General
in
Conditions  and  unless  otherwise  notified  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Bank 
accordance  with the  provisions of the  Conversion Guidelines,  the interest  rate  basis
applicable  to  the  aggregate  principal  amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  during  each
Interest  Period  shall  be  converted  from  the  initial  Variable  Rate  to  a  Fixed  Rate
for the  full  maturity  of such  amount  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Article
IV  of the  General  Conditions  and  of the  Conversion  Guidelines.

-2-

2.06. 

The Payment  Dates are  January  15  and  July  15  in each  year.

2.07. 

The principal  amount  of the  Loan  shall be  repaid  in accordance  with Schedule  6  to
this  Agreement.

ARTICLE  III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the  objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out,  jointly  through  the  National  Treasury  and  the
MLPP,  Parts  1(a)  and  2  of the  Project  and  cause  Part  1(b)  of the  Project  to  be
carried  out  by  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  in  accordance  with the  provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions,  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and  the
Project  Agreement.

ARTICLE  IV - REMEDIES  OF  THE BANK

4.01. 

The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist of the  following,  namely  that:

(a) 

(b) 

the  Project 
Implementing  Entity's  Legislation  has  been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and
adversely the  ability of the  Project Implementing  Entity  to perform  any  of
its obligations  under the  Project  Agreement;  and

any  action  has  been  taken  for  the  dissolution,  disestablishment  or
suspension  of operation  (including  cancellation  of license  to  operate  as  a
Financial  Institution)  of the  Project Implementing  Entity.

ARTICLE  V - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

5.01 

The Additional  Condition  of Effectiveness  consists  of the following,  namely  that,
the  Borrower  shall  have  adopted  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  shall  have  adopted  the  KMRC  Operations  Manual  and  the
Project  Operations  Manual,  in  form  and substance  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.

5.02 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date  ninety (90)  days  after the  Signature  Date.

5.03 

For  purposes  of Section  9.05  (b)  of the  General  Conditions,  the date  on which  the
obligations  of the  Borrower  under  this  Agreement  (other  than  those  providing  for
payment  obligations)  shall  terminate  is twenty  (20)  years  after the  Signature Date.

-3-

ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is the  Cabinet Secretary  for National  Treasury  and
Planning.

6.02. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Borrower's  address  is:

The National  Treasury  and  Planning
Treasury  Building
P.0 Box  30007-00100
Nairobi,  Kenya

(b) 

the  Borrower's  Electronic  Address  is:

Facsimile:  254  20  330426;  254  20  218475

6.03. 

For purposes  of Section  10.01  of the  General  Conditions:

(a) 

the  Bank's  address  is:

International  Bank  for Reconstruction  and  Development
1818  H  Street, N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United States  of America;  and

(b) 

the  Bank's  Electronic  Address is:

Telex: 

Facsimile:

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  as  of the  Signature  Date.

REPUBLIC  OF  KENYA

-4-

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name:

Title:_

Date:  5  Dic-kber  2011

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Authortepresentative

Name:  Q  f\--  ~ 

OCW~l

Title: 

1\ 

1

Date:  FC-fl 

1 

t0

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project  Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  expand  access  to  affordable  housing  finance  to

targeted beneficiaries.

The Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part  1:  Support  to  the  Kenya Mortgage  Refinance  Company

(a) 

(b) 

Supporting  the  establishment,  capitalization;  and  operationalization  of the  Kenya
Mortgage  Refinance  Company  ("KMRC"  or  "Project  Implementing  Entity").

Provision  of financing  by  the  Borrower  to  KMRC  to be  utilized  as  a line  of credit
for  providing  the  Mortgage  Refinancing  to  the  Eligible  Participating  Financial
Institutions  ("PFI").

Part  2:  Technical  Assistance

Carrying out  a  program  of activities  designed  to:  (i)  support  the  MLPP  improve  property
registration;  (ii)  support  the  implementation  of key  legislations  and  regulations  that  have
been  enacted  to  fast  track  effective  property  registration;  (iii)  support  the  MLPP  in
addressing  structural  constraints  in  the  existing  land  management  system;  (iv)  provide
capacity  building  to  the  staff of the  registries  and  MLPP  on computerization;  (v)  support
the  operationalization  of KMRC,  build  capacity  of KMRC,  its  supervisors  and  Eligible
the  development  of  an  effective
(vi)  support 
Participating  Financial  Institutions; 
communication  strategy  by  KMRC;  and  (vii)  augment  project  management  capacity.

-6-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

A. 

Institutional Arrangements

National  Treasury

The Borrower  shall  designate,  at all times during the  implementation  of the  Project,
the  National  Treasury  ("NT") to be  responsible for  implementation  of Part  1(a) of
the  Project,  and  Part  2 of the  Project jointly with  MLPP.  To this  end,  the  Borrower
shall ensure  that  the  personnel  and  resources  required to  enable  the  NT to perform
its  functions  under  the  Project  are  provided,  such  personnel  to  include  a  Project
coordinator,  a  Project accountant  and  a  procurement  officer  experienced  in  Bank
procedures,  all  with  terms  of reference,  qualifications  and  experience  acceptable
to  the Bank.

Not  later  than  twelve  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  have
recruited  the consultants  for purposes of carrying out the  activities under  Part 2  of
the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the  Procurement  Regulations,  and  under  terms  of
reference,  qualifications  and  experience  satisfactory  to the  Bank.

Ministry  of Lands  and  Physical  Planning

To  be  responsible  for  implementation  of  Part  2  of  the  Project,  jointly  with  the
National  Treasury,  MLPP will  provide the  required technical  support and  contract
management  and supervision.  To  this  end,  MLPP  has  appointed  a  senior  officer
to  ensure  ownership  of the  activities  MLPP  is  responsible  for  under  Part 2  of the
Project.

Project Operations Manuals

The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts  1(a)  and  (2)  of the  Project  in  accordance  with
the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  shall cause  KMRC  to  carry  out Part  1(b)  of the
Project  in  accordance  with  the  KMRC  Operations  Manual  and  the  Project
Operations  Manual  (both  referred  to  as  "Project  Operations  Manuals").

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  Project  Operations  Manuals  are  not  amended,
suspended,  repealed  or  abrogated  without  the  prior  written  approval  of the  Bank.

In  the  event  of  any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of  the  Project  Operations
Manuals  and this Agreement,  the provisions  of this  Agreement  shall  prevail.

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

-7-

Subsidiary  Agreement

C. 

1. 

To  facilitate  the  carrying  out  of  Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  make
the  proceeds of the  Loan allocated  from  time to  time to  Category  I  of the table  set
forth  in Section  III  of this  Schedule,  available  to the  Project  Implementing  Entity,
under  a  Subsidiary  Agreement  between 
and  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  under  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  which
shall  include,  inter alia, the  following:

the  Borrower 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  made  available  under  the  Subsidiary
Agreement  ("Subsidiary  Loan")  shall  be:  (i)  denominated  and  repayable
the  principal  amount
in  Kenya  Shillings;  (ii)  charged 
withdrawn and  outstanding from  time to time  at a rate  not less  than the rate
determined  under  section  2.05of this  Agreement;  and  (iii)  under financial
terms  and  conditions,  including  repayment  and  grace  periods,  acceptable
to  the  Bank;

interest  on 

the  obligation  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  carry  out  its
Respective  Part  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency,  in
technical
conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  financial  and 
practices  and  in  accordance  with  the  Project  Operations  Manuals,  and
provide,  or  cause  to  be  provided,  promptly  as  needed,  the  facilities,
services  and other  resources  required  for the  Project;

the  obligation  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  comply  with  record
keeping,  auditing  and  reporting  requirements  set  forth  in  this  Agreement
(operations,  resources  and  expenditure)  for  its  Respective  Part  of  the
Project;

the  obligation  of  the  Project  Implementing  Entity,  at  the  request  of the
Borrower  or the  Bank, to  exchange  views with the  Borrower  and the  Bank
with  regard  to  the  progress  of  the  Project  and  the  performance  of  its
obligations  under the  Subsidiary  Agreement;

the  obligation  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  promptly  inform  the
Borrower  and  the  Bank  of any  condition  which  interferes  or  threatens  to
interfere  with  the progress  of Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  or  the  performance
of its obligations  under the  Subsidiary  Agreement;  and

the  Borrower  shall  obtain rights  adequate  to  protect  its  interests  and  those
of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Bank,  including  the  right  to
suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  use
the  proceeds  of the  Subsidiary  Loan,  or  obtain  a  refund  of all  or  any  part
of  the  amount  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  then  withdrawn,  upon  the  Project

-8-

Implementing  Entity's  material  failure  to  perform  any  of its  obligations
under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement.

2. 

3. 

D. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  in  such
manner  as  to  protect  its  own  interests  and  the  interests  of the  Bank  in  order  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Loan.  The  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,
abrogate  or waive  the  Subsidiary  Agreement  without  the  prior  written  approval  of
the  Bank.

In  the  event  of any  conflict  between  the  provisions  of the  Subsidiary  Agreement
and  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  shall
prevail.

Environmental and Social  Risk Management  for Part 1(b)  of the  Project

For  purposes  of  managing  the  environmental  and  social  risks  and  impacts
associated  with the  implementation  of Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure,  and cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  ensure,  that:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Loan  proceeds  are  provided  only  to  Eligible  Participating  Financial
Institutions  for  carrying  out  Mortgage  Refinancing  that  meet  the  criteria
detailed  in  the  KMRC  Operations  Manual  and  that  are  not  utilized  for
refinancing  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans  that  support  Excluded  Activities  as
set  out in  Schedule  5  of this  Agreement;

all  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans  refinanced  under  Part  1(b)  of the  Project  by
Eligible  Participating  Financial 
the  Applicable
Environmental 
adequate
implementation  of the ESMS;

Institutions  meet 
Requirements 

through 

Social 

and 

all  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  fulfill  their  respective
obligations  with  regard  to  carrying  out  environmental  and  social  due
diligence  and  monitoring of Eligible  Mortgage  Loans,  in accordance  with
the  ESMS;  and

all  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  manage  the  working
conditions  of their  workforce  in  accordance  with  relevant  aspects  of the
World Bank  Performance  Standard  2  on  Labor and  Working Conditions.

2. 

For purposes  of carrying  out Part  1(b)  of the Project,  the Borrower  shall cause  the
Project  Implementing  Entity 
that  Eligible  Participating  Financial
Institutions  notify  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  (which  in  turn  shall  promptly
notify  the  Bank),  of any  social,  labor,  health and  safety,  security  or environmental
incident,  accident  or  circumstance  which  may  have  any  material  impact  on  the
compliance  of the  Applicable  Environmental  and  Social  Requirements.

to  ensure 

3. 

4. 

5. 

E. 

1  .

2. 

-9-

The Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  regularly  collect and
compile,  and  submit to  the  Bank, as  part of the  Project  Reports,  information on the
status of compliance  with environmental  and social  risk management  requirements
set forth  in this  Agreement,  providing details on measures taken,  conditions,  if any,
which  interfere  or threaten  to  interfere  with the  implementation  of the  Applicable
Environmental  and  Social  Requirements  and  the  ESMS;  and  remedial  measures
taken or  required  to  be  taken  to address  such  conditions.  The Borrower  shall cause
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  consolidated  annual
environmental  and  social  performance  report  within  forty-five  (45)  days  after the
end  of each  calendar year.

Prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any  activities  under  Part  1(b)  of  the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to:  (i)  adopt and  publish  an
environmental  and  social  risk  management  policy  acceptable  to  the  Bank;  and
(ii)  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain  through  the  period of implementation  of the
Project,  an easily  accessible  grievance  redress  mechanism  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
to  address  feedback  and  grievances  relating  to  the  Project.

Prior  to  the  carrying  out  of  any  activities  under  Part  1(b)  of  the  Project,  the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  to  submit  an  acceptable
capacity  building  plan on  Applicable  Environmental  and  Social  Requirements  for
its staff and  Participating  Financial  Institutions,  and to  designate an Environmental
and  Social  Coordinator.

Participating Agreements

In  order  to  implement  Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  shall:  (a)  enter  into  Participating  Agreements  with
Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  ("Participating  Agreements"),  as  the
case  may  be,  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which shall  include
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement  to  make  the
proceeds  of the Subsidiary  Loan  available  to said  Eligible  Participating  Financial
Institutions;  and  (b)  except  as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  not assign,  amend,
abrogate  or  waive any  such  Participating Agreements.

The  Borrower  shall  take  all  measures  in  its  powers  to  ensure  that  the  Project
Implementing  Entity  shall  exercise  its  rights  under  the  Participating  Agreements
in  such  manner as  to  protect  its  interests  and  the  interests  of the  Bank  in  order  to
accomplish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.  The  Project  Implementing  Entity  shall  not
assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the  Participating  Agreements  without  the  prior
written  approval  of the  Bank.

-10-

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring  Reporting  and Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  furnish to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later than  forty-
five  (45)  days  after  the  end  of  each  calendar  semester,  covering  the  calendar
semester.

Section  III.  Withdrawal of  Loan  Proceeds

A. 

General

Without  limitation upon  the provisions  of Article  II  of the  General Conditions  and
in  accordance  with  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter,  the
Borrower  may  withdraw the proceeds  of the  Loan to finance  Eligible Expenditures
in  the  amount  allocated  and,  if applicable,  up  to  the  percentage  set  forth  against
each  Category  of the  following table:

Amount  of the  Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in  Euro) 

Percentage  of
Expenditures to  be
financed
(inclusive  of  Taxes)

(1)  Mortgage  Refinancing  under 

166,400,000 

100%

Part  1(b)  of the Project

(2)  Goods, non-consulting 

8,800,000 

100%

services,  consulting services,
Training and  Incremental
Operating Costs  for Part 2  of
the  Project

(3)  Eligible  Expenditure 

Program  under  Part  1(a)  of 
the  Project 

43,800,000 

the 

out 

percentage 

100%  of  each  DLI
Amount 
set 
in
(or  such
Schedule 
3 
lesser 
as
represents 
total
Eligible 
Expenditures
incurred by  the  Borrower
under 
the 
Eligible
Expenditure  Program  as
of 
of
withdrawal).

date 

the 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

219,000,000

-ll-

Withdrawal  Conditions; Withdrawal  Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part A  above,  no withdrawal  shall be  made:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

for payments  made prior to the  Signature  Date, except  that withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  Eurol5,000,000  may  be  made  for
payments  made  prior  to  this  date  but  on  or  after  January  1,  2019,  for
Eligible  Expenditures  under  Categories (2)  and (3);

under  Category  (1),  until  the Borrower  has  provided  evidence  satisfactory
to the  Bank that:

(i) 

(ii) 

the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  been  established,  made
operational,  and  capitalized  in  a  manner satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
and  the  relevant  licenses,  permits,  and  approvals  required  for  its
operation  have been  obtained;

the  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been  entered  into  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  Section  I.C.  of  Schedule  2 
to  this
Agreement,  and  the  Bank  has  received  a  legal  opinion(s)  or
certificate(s)  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  confirming on  behalf of the
Project  Implementing  Entity  and  the  Borrower that the  Subsidiary
Agreement  to  which  each  is  a  party  has  been duly  authorized  by,
and executed  and delivered  on behalf of, the  Project Implementing
Entity  and the  Borrower  and  is  legally  binding upon such  party  in
accordance  with  its terms;  and

under  Category  (3)  for Eligible  Expenditures  Program  unless  and  until the
Borrower  has  furnished  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that:  (i)  the
Borrower  and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  have  executed 
the
Subsidiary  Agreement,  in  accordance  with  Section  I.C.  of Schedule  2  of
this  Agreement;  (ii)  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has  been established,
made  operational,  and  capitalized  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,
and  the  relevant licenses,  permits,  and approvals  required  for its operation
have  been  obtained; 
(iii)  payments  for  Eligible  Expenditures  Program
have  been made  in  accordance,  and  in compliance,  with the  procedures  set
forth  in  the  Verification  Protocol  and  in  the  Borrower's  applicable  laws
and  regulations;  and  (iv)  the  DLIs  set  forth  in  Schedule  3  for  which
payment  is  requested  have  been  met  and  verified  in  accordance  with  the
Verification  Protocol.

2. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  I  of this  Part  B,  if the  Bank  shall
determine  based  on  the  evidence  provided  by  the  Borrower  under  paragraph  1(c)
of this  Part B, that any  DLIs  have  not been achieved  or have been partially achieved
by  the  end  of  the  year  during  which  such  DLIs  were  scheduled  to  be  met  in

-12-

accordance  with  Schedule  3,  the  Bank  may  in  its  sole  discretion,  by  notice  to  the
Borrower:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

withhold  in whole or  in part the amount of the  Loan allocated  to such  DLls;

disburse  in whole or  in part the amount of the  Loan  allocated  to such  DLIs
at any  later time  when  such DLIs are  met;  and/or

reallocate  in  whole  or  in  part  any  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  such
DLIs  to other  Categories.

3. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  the  Bank  determines,  at  any  time,  that  any
portion  of the  amounts  disbursed  by the  Borrower  under  Category  (3)  was made
for  reimbursement  of  expenditures  that  are  not  eligible  under  the  Eligible
Expenditures  Program  or  not  in compliance  with the  provisions  of paragraphs  1(b)
and  2  of this  Part  B,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly  refund  any  such  amount  to  the
Bank as  the  Bank shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.

4. 

The Closing  Date  is June  30,  2024.

-13-

SCHEDULE  3

Disbursement  Linked Indicators for  Category (3)  of  the Withdrawal Table

DLIs 

Description 

DLI  1: The  Project 
Implementing  Entity  is 
legally  established,  has 
the  required  regulatory 
capital  and  approvals  to 
start  operations

DLI  2:  The Borrower 
has provided  Tier 2 
Capital  to the  Project 
Implementing  Entity 

The Borrower  has established,  operationalized 
and  capitalized  the  Project  Implementing  Entity
and  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  has
received  the relevant  licenses,  permits,  and
approvals  required  to start  operations.

The  Borrower  has executed  a Subordinated 
Debt  Agreement  with  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  pursuant  to which  EUR  8,800,000
equivalent  has  been  paid to the  Project
Implementing  Entity.

DLI  Amount 

Indicative  Target
Date

Euro  8,800,000 

By  June 2019

Euro  8,800,000 

By  February  2020

DLI  3:  The Borrower 
has provided  additional 
Tier  2  Capital  to  the 
Project  Implementing 
Entity 

Upon completion  of a  bond  issuance  by  KMRC,  Euro  26,200,000 
the  Borrower  has  executed  an  updated
Subordinated  Debt  Agreement  with  the Project
Implementing  Entity  pursuant  to  which  EUR
26,200,000  equivalent  has been  paid  to the
Project  Implementing  Entity.

By  February  2022

-14-

SCHEDULE  4

Principal Terms and  Conditions  of Participating Agreements

The  provisions  of this  Annex shall  apply  for the  purposes  of the  implementation  of
Project  Implementing  Entity's  Respective  Part  of the Project  and in accordance  with  Section
I.E.  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

1  .

2. 

3. 

The  principal  amount  to  be re-lent  out  of the proceeds of the  Subsidiary  Loan to  an
Eligible Participating  Financial  Institution under a Participating Agreement  shall  be:
(a)  denominated  and  repayable  in  Kenya  Shillings;  and  (b)  charged  interest on  the
principal  amount withdrawn and outstanding  from time to time at a rate  reasonable
to  cover the cost  of borrowing  of the  Borrower.

Each  Participating Agreement  shall contain  a  requirement  that  the Proceeds  of the
Subsidiary Loan  shall:  (a) be used  only to  refinance Eligible  Mortgage  Loans, made
by  the  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  for no
other purpose;  and (b)  not be  utilized  for refinancing Eligible  Mortgage  Loans  that
finance  Excluded  Activities  as set  out in  Schedule  5 of this  Agreement.

Each  Participating Agreement  shall contain  provisions pursuant  to  which the Project
Implementing  Entity  has the right to:

(a) 

suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of  an  Eligible  Participating  Financial
Institution, as  the case  may be,  to  use  the proceeds  of the  Subsidiary  Loan,
declare  it  to be  immediately  due  and  payable,  or  obtain a  refund  of all  or
any  part  of the  amount  of the  Subsidiary  Loan  then  withdrawn,  upon  the
Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institution's  failure  to  perform  any  of its
obligations  under  a  Participating Agreement;  and

(b) 

require  each  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institution,  as  the  case  may
be to:

(i) 

carry  out  its  activities  under  Part  1(b)  of  the  Project  with  due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  accordance  with sound  technical,
economic, 
financial,  managerial,  environmental  and  social
standards  and  practices  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  including  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  World  Bank  Performance
Standards,  and  the  provisions  of the  Anti-Corruption  Guidelines
applicable to  recipients  of Subsidiary  Loan proceeds other than  the
Borrower;

(ii) 

provide,  promptly  as  needed, 
achievement  of the  objectives  of the  Project;

the 

resources 

required 

for

-15-

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

maintain  policies  and  procedures  adequate  to  enable  it to  monitor
and  evaluate,  in  accordance  with  indicators  acceptable  to  the
Bank, 
the
achievement  of the  Project  objectives;

the  refinancing  of  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans  and 

provide  adequate financial  and  technical  information  to the Project
Implementing Entity  to  justify  that only  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans
have  been  refinanced  out of the proceeds  of the  Subsidiary  Loan;

enable  the  Borrower,  the  Bank  and  the  Project  Implementing
Entity  to  inspect  the  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans,  its  operation  and
any  relevant  records  and  documents;

not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  any  of  its  agreements
providing  for  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans,  or  any  provision  thereof,
without  prior approval  of the  Project  Implementing  Entity; and

(A)  exchange  views  with,  and  furnish  all  such  information  to  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  and 
the  Borrower,  as  may  be,
reasonably  requested  by  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  or  the  Project
Implementing  Entity,  with  regard  to  the  progress  of  its  activities
under  Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  the  performance  of its  obligations
under  its  respective  Participating  Agreement,  and  other  matters
relating to the purposes of Part  1(b)  of the Project;  and (B) promptly
inform the Bank, the Borrower  and the Project Implementing Entity
of any  condition  which  interferes  or threatens  to  interfere  with  the
progress  of  its  activities  under 
respective  Participating
Agreement.

its 

-16-

SCHEDULE  5

Excluded  Activities

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

List of  Excluded  Activities

Real  estate  construction  deemed  illegal  or  non-compliant  according  to  applicable
national  and  local  laws  and  regulations.'

Properties  or  land  associated  with  illegal  forced  evictions  of previous  owners  or
occupants.

Properties  built  on  land  from  which  government  agencies  or  builders  have
including  squatters  or
removed/ 
encroachers,  without  proper  compensation.

involuntarily  resettled 

local  communities, 

Properties  involving outstanding  land disputes.

Properties  built  in  locations  and/  or 
degradation  or  conversion  of critical  habitats'  and/or legally  protected  areas.'

in  a  manner  that  involves  significant

Properties  built  in  locations  and/ or  in  a manner  that  involves  significant  adverse
impacts  on critical  cultural  heritage.6 7

Footnotes on  Excluded  Activities

Examples  include  unauthorized  construction;  housing  construction  in  zones  not
designated as residential;  encroachment  on public/ government  land or private land
etc.

Permanent  or temporary  removal  against  their  will  of individuals,  families  and/or
communities  from the homes  and/or land which they occupy,  without the provision
of,  and  access  to,  appropriate  forms  of legal  or  other  protection.  Prohibition  on
forced  evictions  does  not,  however,  apply  to  evictions  carried  out  by  force  in
accordance  with  national  law  and  is  conducted  in  a  manner consistent  with basic
principles  of  due  process, 
including  provision  of  adequate  advance  notice,
meaningful  opportunities  to  lodge  grievances  and  appeals,  and  avoidance  of the
use  of unnecessary,  disproportionate  or  excessive  force.  These  criteria  will  apply
where  land associated  with such  evictions  was  subsequently  used  for construction
of housing  developments  in which  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  are
seeking  to  originate  mortgages

3. 

Resettlement  activities should  follow the process  through which adverse  social and
economic  impacts  are  minimized  through:  (a) providing  compensation  for  loss  of
assets at replacement  cost defined as the  market value of the assets plus  transaction
costs and  (b)  ensuring that resettlement activities  are  implemented  with appropriate

-17-

disclosure  of information,  consultation,  and  the  informed  participation  of those
affected.  These  criteria  will  apply  where  land  associated  with  such  resettlement/
displacement  was  subsequently  used  for construction  of housing  developments  in
which  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  are  seeking  to  originate
mortgages.

Critical  habitat  is  a  subset  of  both  natural  and  modified  habitat  that  deserves
particular  attention. Critical  habitat includes  areas with high biodiversity value that
meet the criteria of the World  Conservation  Union (IUCN)  classification,  including
habitats  of significant  importance  for critically  endangered  or  endangered  species
as  defined  by  the  IUCN  Red  List  of  Threatened  Species;  habitats  of significant
importance  for  endemic  or  restricted-range  species;  habitats  supporting  globally
significant  concentrations  of migratory  species  and  /or congregator  species;  areas
with  unique  assemblages  of species  or which  are  associated  with key  evolutionary
processes.  Primary  forests  or  forests  of  High Conservation  Value  (HCV)  shall  be
considered  critical  habitats.  HCV  areas do not  directly correspond  with definitions
for  modified,  natural  and  critical  habitat.  The  HCV  Resource  Network,  an
the
internationally-recognized  group,  provides 
evolving 
usage 
approach.
https://www.hcvnetwork.org/.

information  and  support  on 

of  HCV 

consistent 

ensure 

to 

a 

land  associated  with  such  degradation  or
These  criteria  will  apply  where 
conversion  was  subsequently  used  for  construction  of housing  developments  in
which  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  are  seeking  to  originate
mortgages  and/or these  impacts  are  likely  to  occur  or continue  post-construction.

Critical  cultural  heritage  consists  of one  or both  of the  following  types  of cultural
heritage:  (a)  the  internationally  recognized  heritage  of communities  who  use  or
have  used  within  living  memory  the  cultural  heritage  for  long-standing  cultural
purposes;  or (b)  legally  protected cultural  heritage areas,  including those  proposed
by  host  governments  for such  designation.

These  criteria  will  apply  where 
impacts  was
subsequently  used  for  construction  of  housing  developments  in  which  Eligible
Participating  Financial  Institutions  are  seeking to  originate  mortgages and/or these
impacts  are  likely to  occur  or  continue  post-construction.

land  associated  with  such 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

-18-

SCHEDULE  6

Commitment-Linked  Amortization  Repayment  Schedule

The following table  sets forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the  percentage
of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date
("Installment  Share").

Level  Principal Repayments

Principal Payment Date 

Installment  Share

On  each  January  15  and  July  15 

2.5%

Beginning July  15,  2024
through January  15,  2044

-19-

APPENDIX

Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the  Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption  in  Projects Financed  by IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits and  Grants",
dated October  15,  2006  and  revised  in January  2011  and as  of July  1,  2016.

technical
"Applicable  Environmental  and  Social  Requirements"  means  the 
requirements  applicable  to the  eligible  Mortgage  Loans  using the  proceeds  of the
Subsidiary  Loan  supported  under  Part  1(b) of the Project  and  which  are  comprised
of:  (a) applicable  environmental  and  social  national  and local  laws  and regulations
of the  Borrower,  which  may include  national  and  local  laws,  County  or  municipal
by-laws  and  other  provision  regulating  housing  development  and  certification  by
relevant  authorities  (e.g.  building  safety),  waste  management,  life  and  fire  safety,
access  to  basic  services  such  as  water  and sanitation;  and  (b)  Excluded  Activities
set  forth  in  Schedule  5  of this  Agreement.

"Capacity  Building Plan"  means  a program  of activities  designed  to strengthen  the
capacity  of staff of KMRC  and Participating  Financial  Institutions  on  Applicable
Environmental  and  Social  Requirements.

"Category"  means a  category  set forth  in  the  table  in  Section  III.A  of Schedule  2
to  this  Agreement.

"Central  Bank  Act" means the  Borrower's  Central  Bank Act  Chapter  491  Laws  of
Kenya.

"Companies  Act"  means  the Borrower's  Companies  Act No.  17  of 2015.

"Disbursement  Linked  Indicator"  or "DLI"  means,  with respect of Categories  (3),
each of the  indicators  related to said  Categories as  set forth  in the table  in Schedule
3  to  this  Agreement,  and  "Disbursement  Linked  Indicators"  or  "DLIs"  means,
collectively,  more  than  one  such Disbursement  Linked  Indicator  or  DLI.

"Eligible  Expenditure  Program"  and  "EEP"  means  specific  pre-identified
expenditures  of the Borrower  acceptable  to  the  Bank  and  made  in connection  with
Part  1  of  the  Project,  namely  the  Borrower's  contributions  to  KMRC  from  the
proceeds  of the  Loan, as  more  fully  defined  in the  Project  Operations  Manual.

"Eligible  Mortgage  Loan"  means  a  mortgage  loan  which  meets  the  KMRC's
eligibility  criteria  for the  purpose  of  Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  as  set  forth  in  the
KMRC  Operations  Manual.

-20-

10. 

I1. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

"Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions"  or  "Eligible  PFI"  means the selected
banks  and  non-bank  financial  institutions  to  carry  out  Part  1(b)  of the  Project,  as
set forth  in the KMRC  Operations  Manual  and in accordance  with the Participating
Agreements.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  System"  or  "ESMS"  means 
the
systematic  process  for  identifying,  assessing  and  managing  environmental  and
social  risks and  impacts  associated  with activities  supported  under  Part  1(b)  of the
Project  and  managing  exposure  to  such  risks  and  impacts  by  KMRC  and  Eligible
Participating  Financial  Institutions  in  a manner that enables  the  Eligible  Mortgage
Loans  to  meet  Applicable  Environmental  and  Social  Requirements;  which
systematic  process  contains 
(a)  adequate
environmental  and social policies  and procedures  prepared  by  KMRC,  as amended
from  time to  time;  (b)  a customized  ESMS  prepared  and  implemented  at  the level
of  Eligible  Participating  Financial  Institutions  in  accordance  with  the  relevant
regulations  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Applicable  Environmental  and  Social
Requirements;  and  (c)  adequate  capacity  within KMRC  and  Eligible  Participating
Financial  Institutions  to  develop  and  maintain  adequate  policies,  procedures,
organizational 
identifying,  managing,
monitoring,  and  reporting  on  risks  and  impacts  of activities  supported  under  Part
1(b)  of the  Project.

structure,  budget,  and  capacity 

following  core  elements: 

the 

for 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing, 
Investment  Project
Financing",  dated  December  14,  2018.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  reasonable  incremental  costs,  as  approved
by  the  Bank,  required  for the  day-to-day  coordination,  administration,  operation
and  supervision  of Project  activities,  including  leasing  and/or  routine  repair  and
maintenance  of  vehicles,  equipment,  facilities  and  office  premises,  fuel,  office
supplies,  utilities,  consumables,  communication  expenses  (including  postage,
telephone  and  internet  costs),  translation,  printing  and  photocopying  expenses,
bank  charges,  publications  and  advertising  expenses,  insurance,  Project-related
meeting  expenses,  Project-related 
travel,  subsistence  and  lodging  expenses,
support  staff  and  other  administrative  costs  directly  related  to  the  Project,  but
excluding  salaries,  bonuses,  fees  and  honoraria  or  equivalent  payments  of
members  of the  Borrower's  civil  service.

"KMRC"  means  the  Kenya  Mortgage  Refinance  Company,  established  and
operating  in  accordance  with the  Project  Implementing  Entity's  Legislation.

"KMRC  Operations  Manual"  means  the  manual  referred  to  in  Section  LB  of
Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  for the  implementation  of Part  1(b)  of the  Project,
including  the  criteria  and  requirements  for selecting  and  appraising  eligible  PFIs,

-21-

and  the  terms  and  conditions  for the  Mortgage  Refinancing,  as  said  manual  may
be  revised  from  time  to  time with  the prior  written  agreement  of the  Bank.

"Mortgage  Refinancing"  means  refinancing  made  or  proposed  to  be  made  out of
the  proceeds  of the  Subsidiary  Loan  to  refinance  Eligible  Mortgage  Loans,  by  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  to  a  Participating  Financial  Institution  which  meets
the  eligibility  criteria set  forth in  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement.

"Ministry  of Lands  and  Physical  Planning"  or  "MLPP"  means  the  Recipient's
ministry  in charge  of national  land  matters;  or  any  successor  thereto  acceptable  to
the  Bank.

"Participating  Agreements"  means  any  of  the  agreements 
to  be  entered  into
between  the  Project  Implementing  Entity  and  Participating  Financial  Institutions,
as  the case  may  be,  in accordance  with Schedule  4  of this  Agreement.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's Respective  Part" means  Part  1(b)  of the  Project.

"Primary  Forests"  means  forests  of native  tree  species,  where  there  are no  clearly
visible  indications  of  human  activities  and  their  ecological  processes  are  not
significantly  disturbed.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes  of paragraph  85  of the  Appendix
to  the  General  Conditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers",  dated July  2016,  revised November  2017  and  August  2018.

"Project  Implementing  Entity"  means  KMRC.

"Project  Implementing  Entity's Legislation"  means  the  memorandum  and  articles
of association  of KMRC,  the  Companies  Act,  the  Central  Bank of Kenya  Act  and
any  other  relevant  legislation  of  the  Borrower  that  regulates  the  operations  of
KMRC.

"Project  Operations Manual"  means the  manual  to  be adopted by  the Borrower  and
KMRC  and  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  setting forth  implementation,  organizational,
administrative,  monitoring  and  evaluation,  financial  management,  disbursement,
and  procurement  arrangements  for  purposes  of implementation  of the  Project,  as
said  manual  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time with  the  prior  written agreement  of
the  Bank.

"Project  Operations  Manuals"  means  the  Project  Operations  Manual  and  the
KMRC  Operations  Manual.

"Signature  Date"  means the  later of the  two dates  on which  the  Borrower  and  the
Bank  signed  this  Agreement  and  such  definition  applies  to  all  references  to  "the
date  of the  Loan  Agreement"  in  the  General  Conditions.

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

-22-

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

"Subordinated  Debt Agreement"  means  the Agreement  between the  Borrower and
KMRC  whereby  the Borrower  provides supplementary  capital  (or tier 2) to  KMRC
as  defined  per  the  Prudential  Guidelines  of the  Central  Bank  of  Kenya  dated
January  2013  and  amended  from  time to  time.

"Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section  I.C  of
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower  shall  make  the
Subsidiary  Loan  available  to  the  Project  Implementing  Entity.

"Subsidiary  Loan"  means the  proceeds of the  Loan made available  by the Borrower
to KMRC  for Part  1(b)  of the  Project  through the  Subsidiary  Agreement

"Tier  2  Capital"  means  supplementary  capital  as  defined  per  the  Prudential
Guidelines  of the  Central  Bank  of Kenya  dated  January  2013  and  amended  from
time  to  time.

"Training"  means  the  reasonable  costs  for the  following  expenditures  incurred  in
travel  by  participants  and
training  or  workshops: 
providing  Project-related 
presenters  to  the  training  or  workshop  site,  per diem  allowances  of such  persons
during  the  training  or  workshop,  honoraria  for  the  presenters,  rental  of facilities,
materials,  supplies  and translation  and  interpretation  services.

"Verification  Protocol"  means  the  process  by  which  the  achievement  of  the
Disbursement  Linked  Indicator  will  be  verified,  and  which  is  included  in  the
Project  Operations  Manual.

"World  Bank  Performance  Standards"  means the  Bank's  operational  policies  and
procedures  set  forth  in the  World  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under  OP/BP  4.03  -
Performance  Standards  for  Private  Sector  Activities,  as  said  manual  is  published
under  www.WorldBank.orW/sites/ppr3.

