OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS

LOAN  NUMBER  8639-BR

Loan Agreement

(Paraiba  Sustainable Rural Development  Project
Projeto Paraiba Rural Sustentavel)

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT

between

and

STATE  OF PARAIBA

Dated  K 

cJ  A 

, 201-

LOAN  NUMBER  8639-BR

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  Qcc½ .

,  2013  between  INTERNATIONAL
BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank")  and  STATE  OF
PARAIBA  ("Borrower").  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank hereby  agree  as  follows:

ARTICLE I - GENERAL  CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01. 

The  General  Conditions (as  defined  in the  Appendix  to this Agreement)  constitute
an  integral  part of this  Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires  otherwise, the capitalized  terms used  in this Agreement
have the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in  the General  Conditions  or in  the  Appendix
to this Agreement.

ARTICLE II- LOAN

2.01. 

The  Bank  agrees  to  lend to  the Borrower,  on  the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred  to  in  this Agreement,  the  amount  of fifty  million  Dollars  ($50,000,000),
as  such  amount  may  be  converted  from  time  to  time  through  a  Currency
Conversion  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.09  of this Agreement
("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in  Schedule 
to  this
Agreement ("Project").

I 

2.02. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw the  proceeds  of the  Loan in accordance  with  Section
IV  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The  Borrower's  Representative  for  purposes
of taking  any  action  required  or permitted  to  be  taken  pursuant  to  this  Section  is
the  Secretary  of Planning,  Budget, Management  and  Finance.

2.03. 

The  Front-end  Fee  payable by  the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%)  of the  Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitment  Charge payable  by the Borrower  shall  be equal  to  one quarter of

one  percent  (0.25%)  per  annum  on the  Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance.

2.05. 

The  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  for  each  Interest  Period  shall  be  at  a  rate
equal  to  the  Reference  Rate  for  the  Loan  Currency  plus  the  Variable  Spread;
provided,  that  upon  a  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the principal  amount  of
the  Loan,  the  interest  payable  by  the  Borrower  during  the  Conversion  Period  on
such  amount  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of
Article  IV  of  the  General  Conditions.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  any

amount  of the Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  remains  unpaid  when  due  and  such  non-
payment  continues  for  a  period  of  thirty  days,  then  the  interest  payable  by  the
Borrower  shall instead  be  calculated as provided  in Section  3.02 (e)  of the General
Conditions.

2.06. 

(a) 

If on  any  given  day,  the Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure
Limit  (as  said  terms  are  defined  in  sub-paragraphs  (b)(ii)  and  (b)(iii)  of
this  Section),  the Borrower  shall  pay to  the Bank a  surcharge  at the rate  of
one  half  of  one  percent  (0.5%)  per  annum  of  the  Allocated  Excess
Exposure  Amount  (as  defined  in  sub-paragraph  (b)(i)  of this  Section) for
each  said day  ("Exposure  Surcharge").  The  Exposure  Surcharge  (if any)
shall  be payable  semi-annually  in arrears  on each Payment Date.

(b) 

For  purposes  of this  Section  the  following  terms  have  the  meanings  set
forth below:

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

"Allocated  Excess  Exposure  Amount" means for each  day during
which  the  Total  Exposure  exceeds  the  Standard  Exposure  Limit,
the  product  of:  (A)  the  total  amount  of  said  excess;  and  (B)  the
ratio  of all  (or,  if the  Bank so  determines,  a portion)  of the  Loan
to  the  aggregate  amount  of all  (or the  equivalent  portions)  of the
loans  made  by  the  Bank  to  the  Borrower,  the  Guarantor  and  to
other borrowers  guaranteed  by the  Guarantor that are  also  subject
to  an exposure  surcharge,  as  said  excess  and  ratio are  reasonably
determined  from time to  time by  the  Bank.

"Standard  Exposure  Limit"  means  the  standard  limit  on  the
Bank's  financial  exposure  to  the  Guarantor  which,  if exceeded,
would  subject  the  Loan to the Exposure  Surcharge,  as determined
from  time to  time by the Bank.

"Total  Exposure"  means  for  any  given  day,  the  Bank's  total
financial  exposure  to the  Guarantor,  as reasonably  determined  by
the Bank.

2.07. 

2.08. 

2.09. 

(a) 

The Payment Dates  are  May  15  and  November  15  in each year.

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule set forth  in Schedule  3  to this Agreement.

The  Borrower  may at  any  time,  in each  case  with  prior non-objection  of
the  Guarantor,  through  the  Secretariat  of  the  National  Treasury  of  the
Guarantor's  Ministry of Finance,  request any of the following Conversions
of the  terms  of the  Loan  in  order to  facilitate  prudent  debt management:
(i)  a  change  of the  Loan  Currency  of all  or  any  portion  of the  principal

-2-

amount  of  the  Loan,  withdrawn  or  unwithdrawn, 
to  an  Approved
Currency;  (ii)  a  change  of the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to:  (A)  all  or
any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from  a  Variable  Rate  to a  Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa; or  (B)  all
or  any  portion  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  from  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Reference  Rate  and  the
Variable  Spread  to  a  Variable  Rate  based  on  a  Fixed  Reference  Rate  and
the Variable  Spread, or vice versa;  or (C)  all of the principal  amount of the
Loan withdrawn  and outstanding from a Variable  Rate based  on a Variable
Spread  to a  Variable  Rate  based  on a  Fixed  Spread;  and  (iii)  the setting of
limits  on the  Variable  Rate  or  the Reference  Rate  applicable  to  all or  any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn and outstanding  by
the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate  Collar  on  the
Variable  Rate  or the  Reference  Rate.

Any conversion  requested  pursuant to  paragraph  (a)  of this  Section that  is
accepted  by  the  Bank  shall  be  considered  a  "Conversion",  as  defined  in
the  General  Conditions,  and  shall  be  effected  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  IV  of the  General  Conditions and  of the Conversion
Guidelines.

Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest  Rate Cap or Interest
Rate  Collar  for  which  the  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  premium  be
paid  out  of  the  proceeds  of the  Loan,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan Account and  pay  to  itself the amounts
required  to pay  any  premium payable  in accordance  with  Section  4.05  (c)
of the  General  Conditions up to the amount  allocated  from time to  time for
the purpose  in the  table in  Section IV  of Schedule  2 to this  Agreement.

(b) 

(c) 

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower declares  its  commitment to  the objective of the Project.  To this  end,
the Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project  through  COOPERAR,  with  the assistance
of:  (a)  Community  Associations  (CAs)  for  Parts  1  (b)  and  2  (a)  and  (b)  of the
Project;  (b)  Producer  Organizations  (POs)  for  Parts  I  (c)  and  3  of the Project;  (c)
AESA  for Part 2  (c)  of the Project; (d)  SEIRHMACT  for Part  1  (e)  of the  Project;
and  (e)  CINEP  for  Parts  I  (f)  and  3  of the  Project,  all  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  V  of the General  Conditions.

3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of this  Agreement,  and
except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
ensure that the  Project is carried  out in  accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule
2  to  this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE  IV - EFFECTIVENESS;  TERMINATION

4.01.  The  Additional  Legal  Matters  consist  of the  following,  namely that  the  Loan has

been  validly  registered  with  the Guarantor's  Central  Bank.

4.02. 

The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

5.01. 

The Borrower's  Representative  is  its  Governor.

5.02. 

The  Borrower's  Address  is:

Governo  do Estado  da Paraiba
Paldcio da  Redengdo
Praqa  Presidente Epitdcio  Pessoa  S/N,  Centro
58.013-140,  Jodo Pessoa,  PB
Brazil
Phone:  (55-83)  3216-8015
Facsimile:  (55-83)  3214-1891

With  copies to:

Projeto  Cooperar
BR 230 - KM  14 - Estrada de Cabedelo
58.3 10-000,  PB
Phone: (55-83)  3246-8644
E-mail:  gestor.cooperar@gmail.com

Controladoria  Geral  do Estado  da Paraiba
Av.  Avenida  Rio  Grande  do  Sul,  1280  - Bairro dos  Estados
58.030-021,  Jo5o Pessoa,  PB
Phone:  (55-83)  3218-7537/7515
E-mail:  gecrefigcge.pb.gov.br

-4-

Minist6rio  do Planejamento,  Orgamento  e Gestdo
Secretaria de Assuntos  Internacionais
Esplanada  dos  Ministdrios,  Bloco  "K"  - 50  andar
70040-906,  Brasilia,  DF
Brazil
Facsimile:  (55-61)  2020-5006

5.03.  The  Bank's  Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H  Street,  N.W.
Washington,  D.C.  20433
United  States of America

Cable address: 

Telex: 

INTBAFRAD 
Washington,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

Facsimile:

1-202-477-6391

AGREED  at  EMS  I'U 
of the day  and year first  abov6  written. 

1QA 

6L 

E cA'  j  I ~  OA-  )  Q  as

INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By 

S  ATE 

PA 

IBA

Authorized  Representative

Authorized  Representative

-5-

-
/
SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to  improve  access  to water,  reduce  agro-climatic

vulnerability  and  increase  access  to  markets  of the  Borrower's  rural  inhabitants.

The  Project  consists  of the  following  parts:

Part 1  - Institutional Strengthening

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Carrying  out  a  communication  campaign  to:  (i)  inform  stakeholders  about  the
scope  and  rules  of the  Project;  (ii)  publish  and  disseminate  the  Project;  and  (iii)
promote  investments  and attract  buyers  in rural value chains  under the  Project.

Strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of CAs  and  Municipal  Councils  to:  (i)
improve  their governance  and  managerial  skills for operations  and  maintenance  of
community  infrastructure;  (ii)  provide  hygiene,  environmental  and  nutritional
training  to CA  members;  and (iii)  provide  training to  farmers to facilitate  adoption
of  good  agricultural  and  environmental  practices,  including  the  use  of  climate
information  for decision  making.

Strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of POs to:  (i)  comply with organizational
and  business  regulations;  and  (ii)  improve  organizational,  managerial,  business
and  risk-management  skills.

(i)  Provision of training to technical  service providers which may provide technical
support to  CAs,  POs,  COOPERAR and  any other selected  public institution,  under
the Project;  and  (ii)  establish a  technical  service  provider  database.

Strengthening  the institutional  capacity  of SEIRHMACT  and  other selected  public
institutions  to  implement  a  management  model  for  improving  rural  water  and
sanitation services,  including,  inter alia, the  provision of support  to:  (i)  define and
establish  sub-sector  institutional  arrangements;  (ii)  improve coordination  between
sub-sector  institutions  and  programs;  (iii)  establish  an  information  system  for
registering  and  monitoring  the  status  of  rural  water  and  sanitation  systems;  (iv)
pilot  the  implementation  of  technical  assistance  mechanisms  and  management
models for rural water systems;  (v) the federation of CAs; and  (vi) provide training
and  technical  assistance  to  improve  the capacities  of CAs to  manage,  operate  and
maintain  rural  water systems.

(f) 

Strengthening  of CINEP's  and  other  selected  partners'  capacity  for targeting and
reaching  out  to  potential  investors  and  buyers,  and  facilitating  their  decision  to
enter into  Productive  Alliances.

-6-

Part 2  - Water Access  and Agro-Climatic  Vulnerability  Reduction

(a) 

Provision  of support  for:

(i) 

(ii) 

(i) 

(ii) 

identifying  water  supply  investments,  including,  inter alia, construction
and  rehabilitation  of piped  and  non-piped  water  systems,  desalinization
facilities and  household  rainwater harvesting  systems,  and  Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability  Reduction  Subprojects;

carrying  out  pre-investment  studies 
investments
identified  under  sub-paragraph  (a)  (i)  herein,  and  for  Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability  Reduction  Subprojects;  and

for  water  supply 

(iii) 

carrying  out the water  supply  investments  mentioned  under  (i)  herein.

Provisions  of  Matching  Grants  to  the  CAs  for  carrying  out  the  Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability  Reduction  Subprojects.

Provision  of  support  to  AESA  for  the  establishment  of  an  Agro-Climatic  Risk
Information  System.

Part 3 - Productive Alliances

(a) 

Provision  of support  for:

identifying,  and  implementing  Productive  Alliances;  and

carrying  out pre-investment  studies for Productive  Alliances,  including the
formulation  of  business  plans  and  associated  to  Productive  Alliance
Subprojects.

(b) 

Provision  of Matching  Grants  to the  POs for  carrying  out the Productive  Alliance
Subprojects.

Part 4 - Project  Management,  Monitoring and Evaluation

Provision  of support  to the  Borrower  for  carrying  out:

Project coordination  and  management;

monitoring,  results  evaluation  and  impact assessment  of Project  activities;

Project  fiduciary  administration,  internal  controls  and  audits;

Project  safeguards  management;

(b) 

(c) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

-7-

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

independent  financial  and  technical  evaluations  of Productive  Alliances'  business
plans;

a citizen's  engagement  mechanism  (Ouvidoria); and

Project related  studies.

-8-

SCHEDULE  2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation  Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

B. 

1. 

The  Borrower  shall  operate  and  maintain,  throughout  the  implementation  of the
Project,  a  Project  coordination  unit  (COOPERAR),  headed  by  a  Project
coordinator  and  with  structure,  functions  and  responsibilities  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  including,  inter alia:  (a)  the  responsibility  of the  overall  management,
planning,  coordination,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the  Project,  including  the
fiduciary  activities  and  safeguards  compliance;  and  (b)  the  provision  of technical
cooperation  and  support  to  the  CAs  and  POs  during  the  carrying  out  of their
respective  activities  under the  Project.

The  Borrower shall:  (a) at least  once a year  during Project  implementation  and not
later  than  December  7  of each  year,  commencing  on  the  first  such  date  after  the
Effective  Date,  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Bank,  a  plan  (the  Annual  Operating
Plan),  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  for  the  Project's  operation  during  the  following
twelve  months;  and  (b)  thereafter,  carry  out  and/or  cause  to  be  carried  out,  the
pertinent  Annual  Operating  Plan  in  accordance  with  its  terms  and  in  a  manner
acceptable  to  the Bank.

Operational Manual

The Borrower shall carry out the Project,  and/or cause  the  Project to be carried  out,
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  a  manual  (the  Operational  Manual),
satisfactory  to the  Bank,  which  shall include,  inter alia:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the  procedures  for  the  implementing,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of the
Project  (including  the  technical,  procurement,  disbursement,  financial
management,  social  and environmental  requirements  thereof);

the  eligibility  criteria for the  selection  of POs  and  CAs;

detailed  social,  economic,  financial,  technical  and  environmental  criteria
for the  selecting,  evaluation  and  ranking of Subprojects;

the  functions,  responsibilities,  structure  and  key  staff composition  of the
COOPERAR;

(e) 

the  criteria  for  selecting the  investments  under Part  2  (a)  of the Project;

-9-

2. 

D. 

1. 

2. 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

(i) 

the  negative list of the type of investments that  will not be supported  under
the  Project;

model  forms of Subproject Agreements;

indicators  to be  used  for  Project monitoring  and  evaluation;  and

the  Safeguard  Documents.

Except  as the  Bank shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall  not amend,  waive or
fail to  enforce  any  provision  of the  Operational  Manual  without  the  Bank's  prior
In  case  of any  conflict  between  the  terms  of the  Operational
written  approval. 
Manual  and those  of this Agreement,  the  terms  of this Agreement  shall prevail.

C. 

Anti-Corruption

The  Borrower  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of the Anti-Corruption  Guidelines.

Technical  Cooperation  Agreements

Prior  to  the  carrying  out  of any  Project  activity  which  requires  the  assistance  of
SEIRHMACT,  AESA,  CINEP,  or  any  other  selected  public  institution,  the
Borrower,  through  COOPERAR,  shall  enter  into  a  cooperation  agreement  with
each  of said  entities  (the  "Technical  Cooperation  Agreement"),  under terms  and
conditions  acceptable  to the Bank, which  shall  include,  inter alia, the obligation of
(a)
SEIRHMACT,  AESA,  CINEP  and  any  other  selected  public  institution  to: 
assist the Borrower  in the  carrying out of said  Project activity  or activities;  and  (b)
comply  with  the  pertinent  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  all as  applicable  to
the corresponding  Project activity.

The  Borrower,  through  COOPERAR,  shall  exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its
obligations  under  each  Technical  Cooperation  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to
protect the  interests of the  Borrower and  the Bank and  to accomplish  the purposes
of the  Loan.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not
assign,  amend,  abrogate,  waive,  terminate  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Technical
Cooperation  Agreement  or any  of its provisions.

E. 

Subprojects

For the  purposes of carrying  out Parts 2 (b)  and 3  (b)  of the  Project,  the Borrower,
through  COOPERAR,  shall:

(a) 

in  accordance  with  the
after  having  selected  any  given  Subproject 
guidelines  and  procedures  set forth  in  the  Operational  Manual,  enter  into

- 10  -

an agreement  with the relevant  PO  or CA,  as the case  may be,  ("Subproject
Agreement"),  under  terms  and  conditions  approved  by  the  Bank  and
included  in the Operational  Manual,  for the provision of the corresponding
Matching  Grant for the  implementation  of said  Subproject;  and

(b) 

exercise  its  rights  and  carry  out  its  obligations  under  each  Subproject
Agreement  in  such manner as to  protect the  interests  of the  Borrower  and
the Bank  and to  accomplish the  purposes of the  Loan.  Except  as  the Bank
shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,
waive,  terminate  or  fail  to  enforce  any  Subproject  Agreement  or  any
provision  thereof.

Safeguards

The  Borrower  shall  cause the  CAs,  POs,  AESA,  SEIRHMACT  and/or  CINEP
to  implement  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the  Environmental
and  Social  Management Framework  (ESMF),  the Involuntary  Resettlement  Policy
Framework  (IRPF),  and  the  Indigenous  and  Quilombola  Peoples  Planning
Framework  (IQPPF).  The  Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate,  or  waive,
or  permit  to  be  assigned,  amended,  abrogated  or  waived  any  of the  Safeguards
Documents  or provision thereof,  without the  prior approval  of the  Bank.

If  any  Project  activity  (including  any  Subproject)  requires  Resettlement,  the
Borrower  shall:  (a)  prior to  carrying  out any  such  Project  activity  (including  any
Subproject),  prepare  a  resettlement  action  plan  in accordance  with  the  IRPF,  and
disclose  said plan  in accordance  with the procedures  set  forth  in the IRPF;  and  (b)
thereafter  implement,  or cause  to  be  implemented,  all  necessary  measures  under
said  plan,  in accordance  with  its  terms and  in a  manner acceptable  to the  Bank.

If  any  Project  activity  (including  any  Subproject)  involves  the  presence  of
Indigenous  and/or  Quilombola  Peoples,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  prior  to  carrying
out  any  such  Project  activity  (including  any  Subproject),  prepare  an  indigenous
peoples  development plan  in  accordance  with the  IQPPF, and  disclose  said  plan  in
accordance  with  the  procedures  set  forth  in  the  IQPPF;  and  (b)  thereafter
implement,  or cause to  be  implemented,  all  necessary measures  under  said plan, in
accordance  with its  terms and  in  a manner  acceptable  to  the Bank.

F. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  following  activities  shall  not  be  eligible  to  be  carried  out  under  and/or  to  be
funded under  the Project:

(a) 

any  activities  that  would  lead  to  conversion  or  degradation  of  critical
natural  habitats or their supporting  areas;

- 11 -

(b) 

(c) 

any activities that would lead to  conversion or degradation  of critical forest
areas,  related  critical  natural  habitats,  clearing  of  forests  or  forest
ecosystems;  and

the  construction  of any  Dams  that are  10  meters  or  more  in height,  all  as
further  described  in the  Operation  Manual.

If any  activity  financed  by  the  Project  includes the  construction  of a Dam that  is
less than  10  meters  in  height and/or substantial  remedial work  of an  existing Dam
of  10  meters  or more  in height,  the  Borrower  shall, prior to  carrying  out  any  said
Project  activity,  appoint  qualified  engineers,  with  qualifications,  experience  and
terms  of reference  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank,  to  design  and  supervise  said
activity  and/or remedial  works.

The  Borrower  shall  ensure,  and/or  cause  the  CA,  PO,  AESA,  SEIRHMACT,
and/or CINEP to ensure, that the terms of reference  for any  consultancy in respect
of any Project activity  shall be satisfactory to the Bank following  its review thereof
and,  to that end,  such terms  of reference  shall duly  incorporate  the requirements of
the applicable Bank Safeguards  Policies, as applied to the  advice conveyed through
such  technical  assistance.

Section  II. 

Project Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation

A. 

Project Reports

The Borrower  shall  monitor and  evaluate  the  progress  of the  Project  and  prepare
Project  Reports  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of Section  5.08  of the  General
indicators  set  forth  in  the
Conditions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  performance 
Operational  Manual.  Each  Project  Report  shall  cover the  period of one  calendar
semester,  and  shall be furnished  to the  Bank not later than 30  days  after the end  of
the  period covered  by such  report.

Financial  Management,  Financial Reports and Audits

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained  a  financial  management
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  5.09  of  the  General
system 
Conditions.

Without limitation  on  the  provisions  of Part A  of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall
prepare  and furnish  to the  Bank not  later than  forty-five  (45) days  after the  end  of
each calendar semester,  interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the  semester,  in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank.

The  Borrower  shall  have  its  Financial  Statements  audited  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  Section  5.09  (b)  of the  General  Conditions.  Each  audit  of the

5. 

6. 

B. 

1  .

2. 

3. 

- 12-

Financial Statements  shall  cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The
audited  Financial  Statements  for  each  such  period  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank
not later than  six (6)  months after the  end of such  period.

Section III. 

Procurement

General

A. 

1. 

Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting  Services.  All  goods,  works  and  Non-
consulting  services  required  for the Project and  to  be financed  out of the proceeds
of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  forth  or
referred  to  in Section  I  of the Procurement  Guidelines,  and  with the  provisions  of
this  Section.

Consultants' Services.  All  consultants'  services  required  for the  Project  and  to
be  financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in  accordance  with
the  requirements  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Sections  I  and  IV  of the  Consultant
Guidelines  and with  the provisions  of this  Section.

Definitions.  The capitalized terms used  below in this  Section to describe particular
procurement  methods  or  methods  of review  by  the  Bank  of particular  contracts
refer 
in  Sections  II  and  III  of  the
Procurement  Guidelines,  or Sections II, III, IV  and V  of the Consultant Guidelines,
as the case  may  be.

to  the  corresponding  method  described 

Particular Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-consulting
Services

International Competitive  Bidding.  Except as otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  goods,  works  and  Non-consulting  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts  awarded  on  the basis  of International  Competitive  Bidding.

Other  Methods  of  Procurement  of  Goods,  Works  and  Non-Consulting
Services.  The  following  table  specifies  the  methods  of procurement,  other  than
International  Competitive  Bidding, which  may  be  used  for goods, works  and Non-
consulting  services.  The  Procurement  Plan  shall  specify  the circumstances  under
which  such  methods  may be  used.

2. 

3. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

- 13  -

Procurement Method
(a)  National  Competitive  Bidding  (including  the  method  known  as  "pregdo
eletr6nico", as  provided  in  the  Guarantor's  Law  No.  10520,  of July  17,
2002,  under  an  e-procurement  system  approved  by  the  Bank),  subject  to
the  following  additional  procedure,  namely,  that  the  bidding  documents
shall  be acceptable  to the Bank

(b)  Shopping
(c)  Direct  Contracting
(d)  Framework  Agreements
(e)  Community  Participation  in  Procurement  procedures,  as  set forth  in the

Operational  Manual

(f)  Commercial  Practices which  have  been  acceptable  to the  Bank

C. 

1. 

2. 

Particular Methods  of Procurement of Consultants' Services

Quality-  and  Cost-based  Selection.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  paragraph
2  below,  consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  on  the
basis  of Quality  and  Cost-based  Selection.

Other Methods  of Procurement of Consultants'  Services.  The following  table
specifies  the  methods  of  procurement,  other  than  Quality  and  Cost-based
Selection,  which  may  be  used  for  consultants'  services.  The  Procurement  Plan
shall  specify the  circumstances  under which  such  methods  may be  used.

Procurement Method
(a)  Selection  based  on Consultant's Qualifications
(b)  Quality-based  Selection
(c)  Least Cost  Selection
(d)  Fixed  Budget  Selection
(e)  Procedures  set  forth  in  Section  V  of the  Consultants  Guidelines  for  the

Selection  of Individual  Consultants

(f)  Single  Source  Selection of consulting  firms
(g)  Single  Source  Selection of Individual  Consultants  set forth  in  paragraph  5.6

of the Consultant  Guidelines

(h)  Commercial  Practices which  have been  found  acceptable  to  the  Bank

D. 

Review  by  the  Bank of Procurement Decisions

The  Procurement  Plan  shall  set  forth  those  contracts  which  shall  be  subject  to the
Bank's  Prior  Review.  All  other  contracts  shall  be  subject  to  Post Review  by  the
Bank.

- 14  -

Section  IV.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

General

A. 

1. 

2. 

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of Article  Il of the General  Conditions,  this Section, and  such additional
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the
"Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Investment  Project  Financing"  dated  February
2017,  as revised  from  time  to  time  by  the  World  Bank and  as made  applicable  to
this Agreement  pursuant to  such  instructions),, to  finance  Eligible Expenditures  as
set  forth in the table  in paragraph  2  below.

The  following table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that  may be
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  Loan  to  each  Category,  and the  percentage  of expenditures  to  be
financed  for  Eligible  Expenditures  in  each  Category.

Category 

Amount of the  Loan  Percentage  of Expenditures

Allocated 
(US  Dollars) 

to be  financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Works, goods,  Non-
consulting  services,
consultant's  Services,
Training  and  Operating 
Costs  under the  Project,
excluding  Categories  (2)
and  (3)

(2)  Works,  goods,  Non-

consulting  services,  and 
consultant's  Services, 
under Agro-Climatic 
Vulnerability  Reduction
Subprojects

(3)  Works,  goods,  Non-

consulting  services,  and 
consultant's  services 
under Productive 
Alliances  Subprojects

31,641,100 

100%

5,172,792 

100%
of the relevant  Matching
Grant

13,061,108 

100%
of the relevant  Matching
Grant

- 15  -

Category 

Amount  of the  Loan  Percentage of Expenditures

Allocated 
(US  Dollars) 

to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(4)  Front-end  Fee 

125,000 

(5)  Premium  for  Interest 

Rate  Caps  and CollarsAremn

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

50,000,000

3. 

For the  purposes  of this table:

Amount  payable  pursuant to
Section  2.03  of the Loan
Agreement  in  accordance
with  Section  2.07  (b)  of the
General  Conditions
Amount  payable  pursuant  to
Section  2.09  (c)  of the Loan
Agreement

(a) 

(b) 

the  term  "Operating  Costs"  means the reasonable  incremental  operational
costs (which  would  not  have been  incurred  absent the  Project),  related  to
technical  and  administrative  management,  monitoring  and
Project 
supervision  required under the  Project,  including inter alia, administrative
and  operational  support  staff,  office  equipment,  supplies,  travel  costs
(including  accommodations,  transportation  costs  and  per diem),  printing
services,  communication  costs,  utilities, maintenance  of office  equipment
and  facilities,  vehicle  operation  and  maintenance  costs,  and  logistics
services;  and

the  term  "Training"  means  expenditures  (other than  those for consultants'
services)  incurred  by the  Borrower in  connection  with  the  carrying out of
training,  seminars,  and  workshops,  including  the  reasonable  travel  costs
(e.g.  accommodations,  transportation  costs  and per diem)  of trainees  and
trainers  (if applicable),  course  enrollment  fees,  catering,  rental  of training
facilities and  equipment,  logistics  and  printing  services,  as well  as training
materials  and  equipment  needed  under the  Project.

Withdrawal Conditions;  Withdrawal Period

B. 

1  .

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no withdrawal  shall  be
made  for payments  prior to the date  of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals  up
to  an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed  two  million  dollars  ($2,000,000)  equivalent
may  be  made  for  payments  made  within  one  year prior  to  this  date,  for  Eligible
Expenditures.

- 16-

2. 

The  Closing  Date  is  December  15,  2023.  The  Bank  shall  only  grant an  extension
of the  Closing  Date  after  the  Guarantor's  Ministry  of Finance  has  informed  the
Bank that  it  agrees  with such  extension.

-17-

SCHEDULE  3

Amortization  Schedule

The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment Date  ("Installment  Share").  If the proceeds  of the  Loan have  been  fully
withdrawn  as of the first Principal  Payment Date, the principal  amount  of the  Loan
repayable by  the Borrower on each Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  by
the  Bank  by  multiplying:  (a)  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  as  of the  first  Principal
Payment  Date; by  (b)  the  Installment  Share for  each Principal  Payment Date, such
repayable  amount  to  be adjusted,  as  necessary,  to  deduct  any  amounts  referred  to
in  paragraph  4 of this Schedule,  to  which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.

Principal Payment Date 

On each  May  15  and November  15

Beginning  May  15,  2023 
through  May  15,  2035

Installment Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

4%

2. 

If the  proceeds  of the  Loan have  not been  fully  withdrawn  as of the first Principal
Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the  Loan  repayable  by  the  Borrower  on
each  Principal  Payment Date  shall  be determined  as follows:

(a) 

(b) 

To the extent that  any proceeds  of the Loan have  been withdrawn  as of the
first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the  Borrower  shall  repay  the  Withdrawn
Loan  Balance  as  of  such  date  in  accordance  with  paragraph  I  of this
Schedule.

Any  amount  withdrawn  after  the  first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on  each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the  date  of  such
withdrawal  in amounts determined  by the Bank by  multiplying the amount
of  each  such  withdrawal  by  a  fraction,  the  numerator  of  which  is  the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  this
Schedule  for  said Principal  Payment  Date  ("Original  Installment  Share")
and  the  denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  all  remaining  Original
Installment  Shares  for  Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on  or  after  such
date,  such  amounts  repayable  to  be  adjusted,  as necessary,  to  deduct any
amounts  referred  to  in  paragraph  4  of this Schedule,  to which  a Currency
Conversion  applies.

3. 

(a) 

Amounts  of the  Loan  withdrawn  within two  calendar  months prior to  any
Principal  Payment  Date  shall,  for the  purposes  solely  of calculating  the
principal  amounts  payable  on  any  Principal  Payment  Date,  be  treated  as

- 18-

withdrawn  and  outstanding  on  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following the  date of withdrawal  and  shall  be repayable  on each  Principal
Payment  Date  commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date
following  the date  of withdrawal.

(b) 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of sub-paragraph  (a)  of this  paragraph,  if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing  system under which invoices
are issued on or after the respective  Principal Payment Date, the provisions
of such sub-paragraph  shall  no longer apply to any withdrawals  made after
the adoption  of such  billing system.

4. 

5. 

Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1  and  2  of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all  or any  portion  of the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  to  an
Approved  Currency,  the  amount  so  converted  in  the  Approved  Currency  that  is
repayable  on any  Principal Payment Date occurring  during the  Conversion  Period,
shall  be  determined  by  the  Bank  by  multiplying  such  amount  in  its  currency  of
denomination  immediately prior to  the Conversion  by either:  (i)  the  exchange  rate
that  reflects  the  amounts  of  principal  in  the  Approved  Currency  payable  by  the
Bank under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to  the  Conversion;  or  (ii)  if
the  Bank  so  determines 
the
exchange  rate  component of the  Screen  Rate.

in  accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines, 

If the  Withdrawn  Loan  Balance  is denominated  in  more  than  one  Loan Currency,
the  provisions  of this  Schedule  shall  apply  separately  to  the  amount  denominated
in each  Loan  Currency,  so  as to  produce  a  separate amortization  schedule  for each
such amount.

- 19  -

Section  I. 

Definitions

APPENDIX

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

"AESA"  means  Ag  ncia  Executiva  de  Gestdo  das  Aguas  da  Paraiba, the
Borrower's  Executive  Agency  for Water Management,  created  by Law No.  7.779,
dated  July  7,  2005,  and  under the  administrative  jurisdiction  of SEIRHMACT  or
any  successor  thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Agro-Climatic  Risk 
Information  System"  means  Sistema  Estadual  de
Informaq5es  sobre Riscos  Agrohidroclimaticos (SEIRA),  an  online  interactive
database  that provides  access  to hydrological  and agro-climatic  information  aimed
at supporting  decision  making  and  increased  resilience to  climate related  risks.

"Agro-Climatic  Vulnerability  Reduction  Subproject"  means  any  eligible
investment  aimed  at  improving  resilience  of  farmers  and  their  livelihoods  to
climate  related  risk, 
including,  inter  alia:  (i)  water  supply  for  agricultural
production;  (ii)  agriculture  diversification  and natural  resources  management;  (iii)
food  security  and  nutritional  improvement;  and  (iv)  improvement  of rural  roads
access,  all  identified  and  prioritized  by  the  CAs  with  support  of  Municipal
Councils and  approved  by the  Borrower  in  accordance  with relevant  provisions of
the Operational  Manual and  to  be carried out by  a  CA.

"Annual  Operating  Plan" means each  plan  referred to  in  Section  I.A.2  of Schedule
2  to  this Agreement.

"Anti-Corruption  Guidelines"  means 
the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and
Combating  Fraud  and  Corruption  in  Projects  Financed  by  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA
Credits  and  Grants",  dated October  15,  2006  and revised  in  January  2011.

"Bank  Safeguards  Policies" means  the Bank's  operational  policies  and procedures
set forth  in  the  Bank's  Operational  Manual  under  OP/BPs  4.01,  4.04,  4.09,  4.10,
4.11,  4.12,  4.36,  4.37,  7.50  and  7.60.

"Category"  means  a  category  set  forth  in  the  table  in  Section  IV.A.2  of Schedule
2  to  this Agreement.

"CINEP"  means  Companhia de  Desenvolvimento  da Paraiba, the  Borrower's
Development  Company,  created  by  the  Borrower's  law  No.  6.037,  dated  July  2,
1996  or any  successor thereto  acceptable  to  the  Bank.

"Community  Association"  or  "CA"  means  any  civil  association  formed  by
members  of a  community  (associaqdo civil), or  any  private  association,  all  duly
established  in  the  Borrower's  territory  in  accordance  with  the  Guarantor's  laws,
including  communities  of Indigenous  and  Quilombola  Peoples,  and  which  meets

-20-

the  criteria  set  forth  in  the  Operational  Manual  (as  hereinafter  defined)  for
participating  in the  Project.

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits  and  Grants  by  World  Bank
Borrowers"  dated  January  2011  and  revised July 2014.

"COOPERAR"  means  Projeto Cooperar do Estado da Paraiba, the  unit  referred
to  in  Section  I.A. 1  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  linked  to  SEAFDS  and
established  by  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  10,676,  dated  September  11,  1997  and
amended  by  Decree  No.  15.723,  dated  January  3,  2015,  or  any  successor  thereto
acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Dam"  means any  dam, underground  water retention dam,  local  silt retention  dam,
farm  pond  and/or low embankment  tank.

"Environmental  and  Social  Management  Framework"  or  "ESMF"  means  the
Borrower's  integrated  environmental  and  social  impact  assessment  dated  March
28,  2016,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  published  and  made  available  to  the  public  on
the  website  http://www.cooperar.pb.gov.br,  which  contains  the  environmental
(i)  measures  for  chance
protection  measures  in  respect  of the  Project,  including: 
findings  of  physical  cultural  resources;  (ii)  protection  of  natural  habitats;  (iii)
guidelines  for the  identification  of existing environmental  conditions  and potential
direct  and  indirect  environmental  impacts  resulting  from  the  carrying  out  of the
for  the  carrying  out  of
Project  (including  Subprojects); 
environmental  assessments  and  the  preparation  of  environmental  and  social
management  plans,  when  applicable;  (v)  the  recommendation  of  mitigation
measures  for  each  negative  impact  identified;  (vi)  measures  for  enhancing  each
identified  positive  impact;  (vii)  guidance  and  procedures  for the use  of pesticides
and  other  chemicals;  (viii)  guidance  and  procedures  for  interventions  involving
existing  Dams  and  the  construction  of farm  ponds;  (ix)  guidance  and  procedures
for  the  restoration  of native  forests  and  sustainable  management  of  non-timber
forest  resources;  and  (x)  the  Environmental  and  Social  Manual  for  Civil  Works
(containing  complementary  guidance  and  procedures  for  the  carrying  out  and
monitoring  of civil  works,  including  Subprojects);  as  the  same  may  be  amended,
supplemented  or  otherwise  modified  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior  written
agreement  of the  Bank.

(iv)  guidelines 

"General  Conditions"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  Loans",  dated  March  12,  2012,  with  the
modifications  set forth  in Section  II  of this Appendix.

"Indigenous  and  Quilombola  Peoples  Planning  Framework"  or  "IQPPF" means
the  Borrower's  framework  dated  March  28,  2016,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,
published 
website

available 

public 

and 

the 

the 

on 

to 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

-21 

-
http://www.cooperar.pb.gov.br,  detailing measures  to mitigate  any adverse  impact
on  Indigenous  and Quilombola  Peoples as a result of any activity  carried out under
the Project  (including  Subprojects) and to ensure  that they benefit  from the Project,
including  procedures  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  any  pertinent
plans,  as  such  framework  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time  with  the  prior
agreement  of the  Bank.

"Involuntary  Resettlement  Policy  Framework"  or  "IRPF"  means  the  Borrower's
framework  dated  March  28, 2016,  acceptable  to the  Bank, published and available
to  the  public  on  the  website  http://www.cooperar.pb.gov.br,  outlining  general
implementation  procedures,  mitigation  measures  and  monitoring  procedures  for
Resettlement  under  the  Project,  including  the  procedures  for the  preparation  and
implementation  of resettlement  action  plans, as such  framework may be  amended
from time  to time  with the  prior  agreement of the  Bank.

"Matching  Grant"  means a grant made out of the proceeds  of the Loan to a selected
PO  (for  Productive  Alliance  Subprojects)  or a  selected  CA  (for  Agro-Climatic
Vulnerability  Reduction  Subprojects),  for  the  partial  financing  of the  cost  of the
pertinent  Subproject,  subject to  the  specific terms  and  conditions  set forth  in  the
Operational  Manual  and  in the  relevant  Subproject Agreement.

"Municipal  Council"  means  a  Conselho Municipais de  Desenvolvimento Rural
Sustentdvel  or  any  other  entity  supporting  Project  follow-up  in  the  Borrower's
territory  at the  municipal  level,  and  operating  in  accordance  with  the Operational
Manual.

"Non-consulting  services"  means  surveys  and  other  services  of non-intellectual
and  non-advisory  nature  that  can  be  procured  on  the  basis  of  performance  or
measurable  physical  outputs.

"Operational  Manual"  means the  Borrower's  manual  referred  to  in  Section  I.B. I
of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement,  as the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to  time
with the  agreement  of the  Bank.

"Procurement  Guidelines"  means the "Guidelines:  Procurement  of Goods,  Works
and  Non-consulting  Services  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits and  Grants  by
World  Bank Borrowers"  dated January  2011  and  revised  July 2014.

"Procurement  Plan" means the Borrower's procurement  plan for the Project,  dated
May 20, 2016  and referred  to in paragraph  1.18  of the Procurement  Guidelines and
paragraph  1.25  of the  Consultant Guidelines,  as  the  same  shall  be  updated  from
time  to time  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of said paragraphs.

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

"Producer  Organization"  or  "PO"  means  any  producer-based  organization  vested
with  legal  personality  and/or  any  group  of rural  citizens  organized  into  a  legally

-22-

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

established  private  assotiation,  which,  upon  meeting  the  criteria  set  forth  in  the
Operational  Manual,  is  eligible  to  receive  a  Matching  Grant,  for  the  carrying  out
of a Productive  Alliance  Subproject.

"Productive  Alliance"  means  any  alliance  between  a Producer  Organization  and  a
buyer,  which  specifies  product  characteristics,  quantity  to  be  produced/bought,
delivery  modalities  and price  determination  criteria, and  which  forms  the basis  for
the formulation  of a  Productive  Alliance  Subproject.

inter  alia: 

"Productive  Alliance  Subproject"  means  any  eligible  productive  and  market-
oriented  investment  aimed at  supporting POs  to comply with  market requirements,
including, 
(i)  minor  on-farm  infrastructure;  (ii)  soil  and  water
conservation  measures;  (iii)  provision  and  utilization  of  inputs,  equipment  and
tools;  (iv)  technical  assistance  services;  and (v)  off-farm  infrastructure  for storage,
processing  and  packaging,  all  identified  and  prioritized  by  PO  and  buyers  in  the
relevant  Productive  Alliance  business  plan,  and  approved  by  the  Borrower  in
accordance  with  relevant  provisions  of the  Operational  Manual  and  to  be  carried
out by  a  PO.

"Quilombola  Peoples"  means  any Afro-Brazilian  descendent  of ex-slaves  living  in
the  Borrower's  territory  which  maintain  distinct  subcultural  traditions  and  have
received  recognition,  as  such, by  the  Guarantor's  Ministry  of Culture's  Fundagio
Cultural Palmares.

"Resettlement"  means  the  impact  of: 
(i)  an  involuntary  taking  of land  under  the
Project,  which  taking  causes  affected  persons  to  have their:  (a)  income  source  or
means  of livelihood  adversely  affected  (whether  or not  the  affected  persons  must
move to  another location);  or (b)  right,  title or interest in any house,  land (including
premises,  agricultural  and  grazing  land)  or  any  other  fixed  or  movable  asset
acquired  or  possessed,  temporarily  or  permanently;  or  (c)  access  to  productive
assets adversely  affected,  temporarily  or permanently;  or (d)  business,  occupation,
work  or  place  of  residence  or  habitat  adversely  affected, 
temporarily  or
permanently;  or  (ii)  an  involuntary  restriction  of  access  to  natural  resources  in
legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas  (including  reserves)  which  causes  an
adverse  impact on the livelihoods  of the  affected  persons.

28. 

29. 

"Safeguard  Documents" means  the ESMF, the IQPPF and  the IRPF (including  any
environmental  and  social  management  plan,  indigenous  peoples  plan  and
resettlement action  plan), as the  same may be amended,  supplemented or otherwise
modified  from  time to  time with  the prior written  agreement  of the Bank.

"SEAFDS"  means  Secretaria da Agricultura Familiar e  do Desenvolvimento do
Semidrido, the Borrower's  Secretariat  of Family  Agriculture  and  Development  of
the  Semiarid,  or any  successor  thereto acceptable  to the  Bank.

-23-

30. 

31. 

32. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

"SEIRHMACT"  means  Secretaria de  Estado da Infraestrutura, dos  Recursos
Hidricos, Meio  Ambiente  e  Ciencia e  Tecnologia, the  Borrower's  Secretariat  of
Infrastructure,  Water Resources,  Environment and  Science and Technology,  or any
successor thereto  acceptable  to the  Bank.

"Subproject"  means any Agro-Climatic  Vulnerability Reduction  Subproject  and/or
any  Productive Alliance  Subproject.

"Subproject  Agreement"  means  each  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between  the
Borrower  and  a  PO  (for  Productive  Alliance  Subprojects)  or  a  CA  (for  Agro-
Climatic  Vulnerability  Reduction  Subprojects),  as the case  may  be, as specified  in
Section  I.E.(a)  of Schedule  2  to this Agreement.

33. 

"Technical  Cooperation  Agreement"  means any  of the  agreements  referred  to  in
Section  I.D.1  of Schedule  2  to  this Agreement.

Section  II. 

Modifications  to the  General  Conditions

The  General  Conditions are  hereby  modified  as follows:

In  the  Table  of  Contents,  the  references  to  Sections,  Section  names  and  Section
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications  set forth in the paragraphs  below.

Section  3.01. 

(Front-end Fee) is  modified  to read  as follows:

"Section  3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  front-end  fee  on  the  Loan  amount  at

(a) 
the  rate  specified  in the Loan  Agreement  (the "Front-end  Fee").

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on 

the
(b) 
Unwithdrawn  Loan  Balance  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the
"Commitment  Charge").  The Commitment  Charge  shall  accrue  from  a date  sixty
days after the date of the Loan Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
are  withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.  The
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each  Payment
Date."

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and
paragraphs  are  modified,  as  necessary,  to  reflect  the  modification  set  forth  in
paragraph  2  above.

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following
definition  of "Commitment  Charge",  and renumbering  the  subsequent  paragraphs
accordingly:

-24-

5. 

6. 

"19. 
Loan Agreement  for the purpose  of Section  3.0 1(b)."

"Commitment  Charge"  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  49  (originally  paragraph  48)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of  "Front-end  Fee"  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section
3.01  with  Section  3.01  (a).

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  68  (originally  paragraph  67)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of the term  "Loan  Payment"  is  modified to read  as  follows:

"68. 
"Loan  Payment"  means  any  amount  payable  by  the  Loan  Parties  to  the
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or  these  General  Conditions,  including
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn  Loan Balance,  interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment  Charge,  interest  at the Default  Interest Rate  (if any), any
surcharge,  any prepayment  premium,  any transaction  fee  for a Conversion  or early
termination  of  a  Conversion,  the  Variable  Spread  Fixing  Charge  (if  any),  any
premium  payable  upon  the  establishment  of an  Interest  Rate  Cap  or  Interest  Rate
Collar,  and any  Unwinding  Amount  payable by  the  Borrower."

7. 

In  the  renumbered  paragraph  73  (originally  paragraph  72)  of the  Appendix,  the
definition  of "Payment  Date"  is  modified  by  deleting  the  word "is"  and  inserting
the  words  "and  Commitment  Charge  are" after  the word  "interest".

- 25  -

