LOAN NUMBER 9000-JO 
GCFF TF NUMBER TF0B0686 

Loan Agreement 

 
 
(Additional Financing- Jordan Emergency Health Project) 
 
 
between 
 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 

and 
 

 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

LOAN NUMBER 9000-JO 
GCFF TF NUMBER TF0B0686 
 

LOAN AGREEMENT 
 

AGREEMENT  dated  as  of  the  Signature  Date,  between  THE  HASHEMITE 
 
KINGDOM  OF  JORDAN  (“Borrower”)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (“Bank”)  for  the  purpose  of  providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement).   
 

WHEREAS, (A) following an international effort to provide development support 
to countries most affected by refugees in the Middle East region; and having satisfied itself 
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project aimed at maintaining the delivery of health 
services  to  Jordanians  and  Syrian  refugees,  as  further  described  in  Schedule  1  to  this 
Agreement, the Borrower has requested the Bank to extend a loan to assist in the financing 
of the Program; 

(B) funding from the Global Concessional Financing Facility was received by the 

Bank for purposes of providing concessionality under this Agreement; and 

(C) under the terms of a Financial Procedures Arrangement with the Trustee of the 
Global  Concessional Financing Facility dated August 10, 2016, the Bank has agreed to 
provide  additional  funds  to  the  Borrower  (the  Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan,  as 
hereinafter  defined)  as  part  of  an  integrated  lending  operation  under  the  terms  of  this 
Agreement. 

NOW THEREFORE, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

 
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 

an integral part of this Agreement. 

 
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE II — LOAN 
 
2.01.  The Bank agrees to extend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or  referred  to in  this  Agreement,  a  Loan in  the  amount  of  two  hundred  million 

-2- 

(a) 

(b) 

(b) 

(a) 

(b) 

 
2.04. 

(a) 

 
2.05. 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

United  States  Dollars  (USD  200,000,000)  to  assist  in  financing  the  project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”), consisting of the following:  

a non-concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of one hundred forty 
one  million  one  hundred  thousand  United  States  Dollars  (USD 
141,100,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement (“Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”); and 

a concessional portion of the Loan in an amount of fifty eight million nine 
hundred 
(USD  58,900,000) 
(“Concessional Portion of the Loan”). 

thousand  United  States  Dollars 

 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 
be deposited by the Bank into an account specified by the Borrower and acceptable 
to the Bank. 

 
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 

percent (0.25%) of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan. 

The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one 
quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Balance of 
the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan. 

The Commitment Charge shall not be applied to the Concessional Portion 
of the Loan. 

The interest payable by the Borrower on the Non-Concessional Portion of 
the Loan for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to the Reference 
Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread.  

The Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be made available on a non-
reimbursable basis. 

 
2.06.  The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The principal amount of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan shall be repaid 
in  accordance  with  the  amortization  schedule  set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to  this 
Agreement. 

 

-3- 

 

 

ARTICLE III — PROJECT 

 
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, 
the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the  Project  through  MOPIC  in  coordination  with 
MOH in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 

 
3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  and 
except  as the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 

4.01.  The  Additional  Event  of  Suspension  is  that  the  Borrower’s  refugee  protection 

framework is no longer adequate, in the opinion of the Bank. 

 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01.  The  Effectiveness  Deadline  is  the  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the  date  of  this 

Agreement. 

 
ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01.  The  Borrower’s  Representative  is  its  Minister  responsible  for  planning  and 

Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 

international cooperation.   

 
6.02.  The Borrower’s Address is: 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Facsimile: 

+962-6-464 9341 

 
6.03.  The Bank’s Address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

-4- 

 

 

United States of America 

Telex:   

 

Facsimile: 

248423(MCI) or 
  64145(MCI) 

1-202-477-6391 

AGREED as of the Signature Date 

 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 

 
_____________________________________ 
Authorized Representative 

Name: Mohamad Al-Ississ 

Title: Minister of Planning and International 

Cooperation 

 

 

 

 

    Date: __________________________ 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 

By 
 
 

By 

 
 
_____________________________________ 
Authorized Representative 

 

Name: Saroj Kumar Jha 

Title: Country Director 

 
Date: _______________________________ 

 

29-Jul-201925-Jul-2019-5- 

SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 

 

1. 

 

2. 

2.1 

The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in maintaining the delivery 
of primary and secondary health services to poor uninsured Jordanians and Syrian refugees 
at MOH facilities. 
 

The Project consists of the following Original Project Parts, as amended: 

Results-based  financing  to  Deliver  Health  Care  Services  at  Primary  and 
Secondary Health Care Facilities of MOH for the Target Population  

Results-based  financing  for  the  delivery  of  primary  and  secondary  health  care 
services to the Target  Population, through the financing of Health Care Service 
Delivery expenditures. 
 
Improving Coverage and Quality of the Primary Healthcare Services  
 
Supporting MOH in strengthening Primary Health Care Services by incorporating 
a  family  health  model  and  emphasizing  human  resource  development,  through, 
inter  alia,  a  comprehensive  assessment  of  gaps  in  human  resources  and  skills 
needed to incorporate a national family health services model based on WHO’s 
recommendations. 

Providing  technical  assistance  and  capacity  building  to  strengthen  the 
institutional capacity of (i) the Borrower’s public health system, including 
inter  alia,  in  health  information  systems,  human  resources,  health 
insurance  financing  and  strategic  purchasing  for  services  in  the  private 
sector; (ii) the Coordination Unit in project management, monitoring and 
evaluation; and (iii) MOH to maintain a grievance redress mechanism and 
raise awareness on gender-based violence issues; and 

Financing the cost of an independent verification of the services utilized 
by the Target Population at MOH facilities.  

 
2.2 

(a) 

 
(b)  

 
 
 

 

  

 

 

2. 

B. 
 

 
C. 
 
1. 
 

-6- 

SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 

Implementation Arrangements 

Institutional Arrangements   

Section I. 
 
A. 

1. 

The Borrower shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project 
and shall carry out the Project through its MOPIC, in coordination with designated 
focal  points  in  its  MOH;  to  this  end,  the  Borrower  shall,  throughout  Project 
implementation,  ensure  that  MOPIC  and  MOH  designate  and  assign  staff  in 
adequate numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible 
for Project implementation. 

The  Borrower  shall  maintain  at  all  times  during  Project  implementation,  a 
Coordination Unit in MOH, with terms of reference, mandate, composition and 
resources  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Without  limiting  the  foregoing,  the 
Coordination  Unit  shall  include  a  Project  Coordinator,  Financial  Management 
Specialist, and a Procurement Specialist.   

POM 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

The Borrower shall amend, no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, 
the POM, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and shall ensure that the Project is 
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  POM,  and  shall  ensure  that  the  POM  is  not 
amended, suspended, abrogated, or repealed and that no provision of the POM is 
waived, without prior approval of the Bank. 

Expenditure Verification, Utilization Verification for Part 1 of the Project  

The Borrower shall:  

cause  the  Audit  Bureau  to  be  responsible  to  conduct  the  Expenditure 
Verifications; 

furnish  the  Expenditure  Verification  to  the  Bank  no  later  than  six  (6) 
months after each Reported Period;  

hire,  no  later  than  three  (3)  months  after  the  Effective  Date,  and  shall 
thereafter  maintain,  throughout  Project  implementation,  the  UVE,  to 
conduct  the  Utilization  Verification.  The  Borrower  shall  furnish 
Utilization  Verification  Audits  no  later  than  six  (6)  months  after  each 
Reported Period; and  

-7- 

 

 
2. 

 
D. 

 
1. 

(a) 

(b) 

2. 

(a) 

(d) 

furnish the Health Care Service Delivery Expenditure Report to the Bank, 
no later than six (6) months after each Reported Period. 

The  Borrower  shall,  throughout  the  implementation  of  the  Project,  take  all 
necessary measures required to enable the UVE to visit any facilities and sites, and 
inspect all relevant documents and systems, for purposes of carrying out activities 
necessary for the preparation of the Utilization Verifications. 

Financing  under  Part  2  of  the  Project  based  on  Disbursement-Linked 
Indicators  

The Borrower through MOH shall: 

implement  Part  2  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with  the  institutional, 
financial  management  and  procurement  arrangements  set  out  in  this 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 

monitor  and  furnish  sufficient  documentation  to  the Bank  to  enable  the 
Bank to verify the data and other evidence supporting the achievement of 
one or more DLIs as set forth in the table in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  

The amount of payments which the Borrower may request for DLI- based 
financing under Part 2 of the Project shall be determined on the basis of 
the maximum amount allocated by the Bank to each DLI, subject to the 
provisions of Schedule 2 Section III, provided that such amount shall not 
exceed  the  total  amount  of  payment  for  Eligible  Expenditures  incurred 
during the year covered by the DLI-based financing payment requested, 
excluding  any  amount  of  eligible  expenditures  financed  from  other 
sources of financing. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding the provision of sub-paragraph (a) of this sub-section 2, 
all payments under the DLI-based financing shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior written approval and shall only be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds  of  the  Loan  if  and  to  the  extent  approved  by  the  Bank  in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 Section III. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

Project Reports   

 
Section II. 
 
A. 
 
 

 

The  Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later  than  one 
month after the end of a calendar year, covering the calendar year.  

 

 

 
2. 

 

-8- 

 
Section III.  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 
 
A. 
 
1. 

General   

The  Borrower  may  withdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions  as  the  Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower  (including  the 
“Disbursement  Guidelines  for  Investment  Project  Financing”  dated  February 
2017,  as  revised from  time  to time  by  the  Bank  and as  made  applicable  to  this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures and pay 
the Front-end Fee, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  (“Category”),  the  allocation  of  the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 

Category 

Amount of the 
Non-Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 

Amount of the 
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
56,053,865 

Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 

(1)  Health Care Service 

133,946,135 

100% 

(2)  Eligible 

6,344,817 

2,655,183 

100% of each DLI Amount 
set  out  in  Schedule  4  (or 
such  lesser  percentage  as 
represents the  total  Eligible 
incurred  by 
Expenditures 
the  Borrower  under 
the 
Eligible 
Expenditure 
Program  

(3)  Goods, non-

456,298 

190,952 

100% 

Delivery 
Expenditures under 
Part 1 of the Project  

Expenditures 
Program under Part 
2.1 of the Project 

consulting services, 
and consulting 
services and 
Training for Part 
2.2 of the Project 

-9- 

(4) Front-end Fee 

352,750 

N/A 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

141,100,000 

58,900,000 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   

Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

from the Loan Account unless each withdrawal is made on a pari passu 
basis  and  at  a  70.51%/29.5%  ratio  between  the  amount  of  the  Non-
Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan  allocated  and  the  amount  of  the 
Concessional Portion of the Loan allocated. 

for  payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 30, 2018, 
for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1);  

under  Category  (1)  unless  the  Bank  has  received  satisfactory  evidence 
showing  that  health  care  services  have  been  delivered  to  the  Target 
Population,  to  be  confirmed  by  a  Health  Care  Service  Delivery 
Expenditure Report furnished by the Borrower to the Bank containing: (a) 
an  Expenditure  Verification,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  confirming  the 
amount  of  Health  Care  Service  Delivery  Expenditures;  and  (b)  a 
Utilization  Verification,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  confirming  the 
utilization of health care services by the Target Population;  

under Category (2) unless and until the Borrower has furnished all required 
verification documents and information acceptable to the Bank showing 
achievement  of  the  DLIs  and  sufficient  for  the  Bank  to  certify  the 
achievement of the DLIs; and   

under  Category  (3)  of  this  Additional  Financing  unless  and  until  the 
respective  allocations  under  Category  (3)  of  the  Original  Financing 
Agreement have been fully disbursed.  

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, payments under Category 
(2) shall not exceed the maximum amounts allocated to the respective DLI(s) as 
provided in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 

 
B. 
 
1. 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
2. 

-10- 

 

3. 

4. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B, if the Bank 
shall determine, based on the evidence provided by the Borrower under paragraph 
2 of this Part B, that any DLI(s) have not been achieved or have been partially 
achieved by the end of the year during which such DLI(s) were scheduled to be 
met in accordance with Schedule  5 to this Agreement, the Bank may in its sole 
discretion, by notice to the Borrower:  

(a) 

(b) 

disburse  in  whole  or  in  part  the  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to  such 
DLI(s) at any later time when such DLI(s) are met; and/or 

reallocate in whole or in part any amount of the  Loan allocated to such 
DLI(s) to other DLI(s) under Category (2) or to other Categories. 

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  the  Bank  determines,  at  any  time,  that  any 
portion of the amounts disbursed by the Borrower under Category (1) was made for 
reimbursement of expenditures that are not eligible, the Borrower shall promptly 
refund  any  such amount  to  the  Bank  as the  Bank  shall specify  by  notice to the 
Borrower. 

Other Undertakings 

5.  The Closing Date is October 31, 2023. 
 
Section IV. 
 
The Borrower shall open a dedicated special account within the Central Bank of Jordan for 
the exclusive benefit of MOH and transfer, from the Borrower’s budget, on an annual basis, 
and by no later than September 30, 2019 in the first year of the Project, and by no later than 
June 30 thereafter, an amount of $7,500,000 for each of the four years of implementation 
of the Project, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the purpose of providing 
health care services for Syrian refugees.   
 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 

 
The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of  the  Non-Concessional 
Portion  of  the  Loan  and  the  percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (“Installment 
Share”).  
 

Level Principal Repayments 

Installment Share 

Principal Payment Date 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
 
 
 
On May 15, 2054 

Beginning May 15, 2024 
through November 15, 2053 

 

1.64% 

1.6% 

-11- 

 
 

 

-12- 

 

 
 

SCHEDULE 4 
 
Amendments to the Original Financing Agreement 

 
 
The Borrower and the World Bank hereby agree to amend the Original Financing 
Agreement to read as follows: 

1.  Paragraph B (3) of Section IV of Schedule 2, Project Execution, is hereby 

replaced in its entirety to read as follows: 

“3. 

The Closing Date is October 31, 2023.” 

 

-13- 

 

 

SCHEDULE 5 
 
Disbursement-linked Indicators under the Project 

 
The following table specifies the Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLI) and the allocation 
of the amounts of the Loan to each DLI under Category 2: 
 
 

Amount of the 
Non-
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 

Amount of the 
Concessional 
Portion of the 
Loan 
Allocated  
(expressed in 
USD) 

733,333 

266,667 

733,333 

266,667 

 
 
Results Area  

 
Category 
(including Disbursement 
Linked Indicator as 
applicable)) 

Additional 
budget of 
MOH 

Assessment 
of PHC 
coverage & 
quality gaps 

the 

budget 

DLI#1.1:  From  the  baseline  of 
US$776,091,777 
(JOD 
(MOH’s 
550,419,700) 
expenditures 
2017 
in 
receives 
budget),  MOH 
additional 
of 
US$1,000,000  in  the  Jordanian 
following 
fiscal  year  2020 
declaration  of  effectiveness  of 
the Project  
 
DLI  #1.2  MOH  completes  an 
assessment  of  gaps  in  human 
resources  and  skills  needed  to 
incorporate 
nation-wide 
a 
family  health  services  model 
based 
WHO 
on 
including (i) 
recommendations 
health, 
mother 
and 
nutrition, 
development  monitoring;  and, 
prevention 
(ii) 
early 
diagnosis 
diabetes, 
of 
hypertension and breast cancer. 
 

child 
growth 

and 

and 

-14- 

733,333 

266,667 

Additional 
budget of 
MOH 

Development 
of an 
Implementatio
n Plan to 
Improve 
Quality & 
Coverage of 
PHC 
Additional 
budget of 
MOH 

Human 
resources 
capacity 
building to 
improve 
outcomes in 
PHC 

Total  

system, 

Jordanian 

DLI#2.1:  From  the  baseline  of 
(JOD 
US$776,091,777 
550,419,700) 
(MOH’s 
expenditures in the 2017 budget) 
MOH receives additional budget 
of  US$1,000,000  in  the  second 
consecutive 
fiscal 
year  following  declaration  of 
effectiveness of the Project 
 
DLI#2.2  MOH  develops  and 
approves  a  costed  and  phased 
implementation  strategy  with  a 
incorporating 
M&E 
feedback  and  inputs  from  all 
health 
and 
directorates 
development partners.  
 
DLI#3.1:  From  the  baseline  of 
US$776,091,777 
(JOD 
(MOH’s 
550,419,700) 
expenditures in the 2017 budget) 
MOH receives additional budget 
of  US$2,000,000  in  the  third 
fiscal 
consecutive 
year  following  declaration  of 
effectiveness of the Project  
 
DLI#3.2:  MOH  provides report 
on year 1 implementation results 
of the human resources capacity 
building  and  training  activities 
the 
as 
implementation  strategy  under 
DLI 2.2 
 
 

Jordanian 

designed 

in 

 

 
 

1,466,667 

533,333 

1,466,667 

533,333 

1,466,667 

533,333 

6,600,000 

2,400,000 

 

 
 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 

APPENDIX 

 
Section I. 
 
1. 

Definitions 

“Advance” means an advance payment made from the Loan Account, using the 
Advance  payment  method described  in the  Disbursement  Guidelines,  and to  be 
documented within the time period set forth in the additional instructions referred 
to in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

the  “Guidelines  on  Preventing  and 
“Anti-Corruption  Guidelines”  means 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 and as 
of July 1, 2016. 

“Audit Bureau” means the Borrower’s national audit agency established pursuant 
to Law No. 28 of 1952. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 

“Concessional Portion of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan referred to in 
Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement; which has been contributed for the Project from 
the GCFF on grant basis. 
 
“Coordination  Unit”  means  an  organizational  unit  within  MOH  referred  to  in 
Section I(A)(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   

“Disbursement Linked Indicator” or “DLI” means in respect of Category (2), each 
of the indicators related to said Category as set forth in the table in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 

“Eligible  Expenditures  Program”  means  Eligible  Expenditures  incurred  by  the 
Borrower for the implementation of Part 2.1 of the Project, financed through the 
following  budget  code: 
  Manpower  Development  (4605-601),  Program: 
Manpower Development (4605); Activity: human resources management, training 
and qualifying (601). 

“Expenditure Verification” means, for Part 1 of the Project, a financial audit of 
expenditures  paid  by  MOH  for the  services  utilized and  produced  by  the  Audit 
Bureau. 
 

 

10. 

 
11. 

12. 

13. 

 
14. 

 
15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 
 
19. 

-2- 

“General  Conditions”  means  the  “International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated December 14, 2018, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

“Global Concessional Financing Facility” and “GCFF” each means the financing 
facility  established  with  a  focus  on  providing  concessional  financing  to  middle 
income countries most affected by the presence of large numbers of refugees, with 
an initial focus on the Syrian refugee crisis as it impacts Jordan and Lebanon, and 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement. 
 
“Health  Care  Service  Delivery  Expenditure  Report”  means,  for  Part  1  of  the 
Project, a report prepared by the Borrower indicating the amounts to be claimed 
from the Loan for the Target Population, as calculated by multiplying unit costs 
(derived  from  the  Expenditure  Verification)  by  the  number  of  eligible  services 
performed (derived from the Utilization Verification).   
 
“Health  Care  Service  Delivery  Expenditures”  means  selected  expenditures  of 
MOH for providing primary and secondary health care services, agreed with the 
Bank, financed though the following budget codes:  Primary Health Care: 4610-
601;  Program:  Primary  Health  Care/  Health  Services  Centers  (4610)  Activity: 
Providing  Primary  Health  Services  (601);  and  Secondary  Health  Care:  4615-
601;  Program:  Secondary  Health  Care/  Hospitals  (4615)  Activity:  Providing 
Secondary Health Services (601). 

“Loan” means the aggregate of the Concessional Portion of the Loan and the Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement. 

“MOH” means the Borrower’s ministry in charge of health.  
 
“MOI  Cards”  means  a  Ministry  of  the  Interior  Service  Card  issued  by  the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Interior (or any successor thereto).  
 
“MOPIC” means the Borrower’s ministry in charge of planning and international 
cooperation. 
 
“MOSD” means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for social development. 

“Original Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement for the Jordan 
Emergency Health Project between the Borrower and the World Bank, dated June 
23,  2018  (Loan  Number:  T8768-JO  and  GCFF  TF  Number  TF0A5308),  as 
amended.   

20. 

“Original  Project”  means  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  1  to  the  Original 
Financing Agreement.  

-3- 

 “POM” means the project operations manual for the Project, to be adopted by the 
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in Section I.C. of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, describing and setting forth procedures for implementation of 
the Project and institutional arrangements, consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement  and  including,  among  other  things,  the  fiduciary,  technical  and 
operational aspects and procedures for implementation of the Project, including 
the  financial  management  procedures,  procurement  procedures,  monitoring  and 
evaluation  arrangements,  verification  arrangements,  other 
fiduciary  and 
administrative arrangements, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement with the Bank. 
 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
May 21, 2018, and provided for under Section IV of the Procurement Regulations, 
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Bank. 
 
“Procurement Regulations” means the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for 
Borrowers  under  Investment  Project  Financing”,  dated  July  1,  2016,  revised 
August and November 2018 
 
“Reported Period” means consecutive periods of six months each for which the 
Borrower  provides  Utilization  Verification  and  Expenditure  Report  under 
Component 1 of the Project.  

“Target Population” means: (a) Syrian refugees who have been issued with MOI 
Cards; and (b) Jordanians who: (i) do not have health insurance; and (ii) (A) who 
are classified as ‘poor’ according to MOSD’s database; or (B) whose copayment 
for treatment is covered by the Borrower’s Royal Court due to inability to pay. 
 
“Training”  means  costs  incurred  by  the  Borrower  on  account  of  approved 
workshops, and training of Borrower personnel involved in implementation of the 
Project, including study tours, travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly related 
to course preparation and implementation, all on the basis of budgets acceptable to 
the Bank. 

“Utilization  Verification”  means,  for  Part  1  of  the  Project,  an  independent 
verification of the reported services utilized by the Target Population at primary 
and secondary MOH facilities, in the form of a formal report on the total number 
of  outpatient  and  inpatient  services  provided  to  the  Target  Population,  and 
produced by the UVE. 

“UVE”  means  the  independent  utilization  verification  entity,  satisfactory  to  the 
Bank, hired under the Project to conduct the Utilization Verification.  

 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

 
25. 

26. 

 
27. 

 
28. 

 

-4- 

 

29. 
 
 
Section II. 
 
 
 
1. 

“WHO” means the World Health Organization.  

Modifications to the General Conditions 

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 

Wherever used throughout the General Conditions, the term “Loan Payment” is 
modified  to  read  “Payment  of  the  Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan”. 
Furthermore, wherever used in Sections 3.02 to 3.08; Section 3.10; Section 4.01; 
Section 4.02 to 4.05 (including the Title); and Section 9.05, the term “the Loan” is 
modified  to  read  “the  Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan”;  the  term 
“Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read “Unwithdrawn Balance of the 
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”; and the term “Withdrawn Loan Balance” 
is modified to read “Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the 
Loan”. 
 
In  Section  2.07,  Refinancing  Preparation  Advance;  Capitalizing  Front-end  Fee 
and Interest, the term “the Loan” in paragraph (a) and the term “the Loan” after 
“other  charges  on”  in  paragraph  (c)  of,  is  deleted  and  replaced  with  “the  Non-
Concessional Portion of the Loan”. 

In the Table of Contents, the references to Sections, Section names and Section 
numbers are modified to reflect the modifications set forth in the paragraphs below. 

(Front-end Fee) is modified to read as follows: 

Section 3.01. 
“Section 3.01.  Front-end Fee; Commitment Charge 
 
(a) 

The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee on the Non-Concessional 
Portion  of  the  Loan  at  the  rate  specified  in  the  Loan  Agreement  (the 
“Front-end Fee”). 

 
(b) 

The  Borrower  shall  pay  the  Bank  a  commitment  charge  on  the 
Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan at the 
rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Commitment Charge”).  The 
Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of 
the  Loan  Agreement  to  the  respective  dates  on  which  amounts  are 
withdrawn  by  the  Borrower  from  the  Loan  Account  or  cancelled.    The 
Commitment  Charge  shall  be  payable  semi-annually  in  arrears  on  each 
Payment Date.” 

In  the  Appendix,  Definitions,  all  relevant  references  to  Section  numbers  and 
paragraphs are modified, as necessary, to reflect the modification set forth above.  

2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 

-5- 

Wherever used in the following definitions of the terms “Conversion”; “Currency 
Conversion”; “Default Interest Period”; “Default Interest Rate”; “Default Variable 
Rate”;  “Fixed  Rate”;  “Fixed  Reference  Rate”;  “Fixed  Spread”;  “Interest  Rate 
Cap”;  “Interest  Rate  Conversion”;  “Principal  Payment  Date”;  “Reference  Rate 
Reset Date”; “Screen Rate”; “Variable Rate”; “Variable Spread”; “Variable Spread 
Fixing Charge”; the term “the Loan” is modified to read “the Non-Concessional 
Portion of the Loan”; the term “Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read 
“the Unwithdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”; and the 
term “Withdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read “Withdrawn Balance of the 
Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan”. 

The  Appendix  is  modified  by  inserting  a  new  paragraph  19  with  the  following 
definition of “Commitment Charge”, and renumbering the subsequent paragraphs 
accordingly: 

“Commitment  Charge”  means  the  commitment  charge  specified  in  the 

“19. 
Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.01(b).” 

In the renumbered paragraph 49 (originally paragraph 48)  of the Appendix, the 
definition  of  “Front-end  Fee”  is  modified  by  replacing  the  reference  to  Section 
3.01 with Section 3.01 (a). 

In the renumbered paragraph 68 (originally paragraph 67) of the Appendix, the 
definition of the term “Loan Payment” is modified to read as follows: 

“Loan  Payment”  means  any  amount  payable by  the Loan  Parties to the 
“68. 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  Legal  Agreements  or these  General  Conditions, including 
(but not limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-
end Fee, the Commitment Charge, interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any 
prepayment premium, any transaction fee for a Conversion or early termination of 
a Conversion, the Variable Spread Fixing Charge (if any), any premium payable 
upon the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any 
Unwinding Amount payable by the Borrower.” 

10. 

A new paragraph 73 with the following definition of “Non-Concessional Portion 
of  the  Loan”  is  added  to  the  Appendix,  and  the  remaining  paragraphs  are 
renumbered accordingly: 

“Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan”  means  portion  of  the  Loan 

“73. 
provided to the Borrower on non-concessional terms in the Loan Agreement.” 

11. 

In the renumbered paragraph 73 (originally paragraph 72) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Payment Date” is modified by deleting the word “is” and inserting 
the words “and Commitment Charge are” after the word “interest”. 

 

6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 

 

 

-6- 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
13. 

 
14. 

12. 

In the renumbered paragraph 94 (originally paragraph 92) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Unwithdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read as follows: 

“94. 
“Unwithdrawn  Balance  of  the  Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan” 
means  the  amount  of  the  Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan  remaining 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time.” 

In the renumbered paragraph 98 (originally paragraph 96) of the Appendix, the 
definition of “Withdrawn Loan Balance” is modified to read as follows: 

“98. 
“Withdrawn  Loan  Balance”  means  the  amounts  of  the:  (i)  Non-
Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  and 
outstanding  from  time  to  time;  plus  (ii)  Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account from time to time.” 

A new paragraph 99 with the following definition of “Withdrawn Balance of the 
Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan”  is  added  to  the  Appendix,  and  the 
remaining paragraphs are renumbered accordingly: 

“99. 
“Withdrawn Balance of the Non-Concessional Portion of the Loan” means 
the  amounts  of  the  Non-Concessional  Portion  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  from  the 
Loan Account and outstanding from time to time.” 

