OFFICIAL
DOCUPMENTS

1910/ 

LOAN  NUMBER  8886-LB

oan Agreement

(Additional  Loan for Greater Beirut Water Supply  Project)
and  Original Financing,  as  amended

LEBANESE  REPUBLIC

between

and

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Dated  0 

, 2019

LOAN  NUMBER  8886-LB

LOAN  AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT  dated  H,R 

,2 2019,  between  LEBANESE
REPUBLIC  ("Borrower")  and  INTER1 4TIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION
AND  DEVELOPMENT  ("Bank"),  for  the  purpose  of  providing  additional  loan  for
activities  related to  the Original  Project  (as  defined  in  the  Appendix  to  this  Agreement).
The Borrower  and  the Ba ik hereby agree  as follows:

ARTICLE.  - GENERAL CONDITIONS;  DEFINITIONS

1.01.  The General  Conditions  (as  defined in the Appendix  to this Agreement)  constitute

an  integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise,  the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings  ascribed to them in the General  Conditions  or in  the Appendix
to this Agreemen .

ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.  The Bank  agrees to  lend to  the Borrower,  on the terms and conditions  set forth  or
referred 
the  amount  of  ninety  million  Dollars
(USD  90,000,000),  as  such amount may be  converted  from time to time through  a
Currency  Conversion  ("Loan"),  to  assist  in  financing  the  project  described  in
Schedule  I  to thi5  Agreement ("Project").

this  Agreement, 

to 

in 

2.02.  The Borrower  may withdraw  the proceeds of the Loan in  accordance  with Section

III of Schedule 2  to this Agreement.

2.03. 

The Front-end  Fee  payable by the  Borrower  shall  be  equal  to  one  quarter  of one
percent  (0.25%) 

if the Loan  amount.

2.04.  The Commitmeni  Charge  is  one quarter  of one  percent (0.25%)  per annum  on the

Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.

2.05. 

The interest rate  s  the Reference  Rate  plus the  Fixed  Spread or such  rate  as may
apply  following  a  Conversion;  subject  to  Section  3.02(e)  of  the  General
Conditions.

2.06 

The  Payment Dates are  February  15 and  August  15  in each year.

2.07 

The  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  be  repaid  in  accordance  with  the
amortization  schedule set  forth in Schedule  3  to this  Agreement.

-2-

ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01. 

The Borrower  declares  its  commitment  to  the objectives  of the  Project.  To  this
end, the Borrower,  through the MOEW,  shall cause Respective  Parts of the Project
to be carried  out  by  CDR,  and parts  of the  Project  to be carried  out by the  PMU,
as  further described  in Sections  I.A.3  and  I.A.4  of Schedule  2 to  this  Agreement,
each in  accordance with the provisions  of Article V of the General Conditions,  the
CDR Project  Agrement and the  BMLWE  Project  Agreement.

ART  CLE IV - REMEDIES OF  THE BANK

4.01.  The Additional  Events  of Suspension  consist of the  following:

(a) 

(b) 

The  CDF.  Legislation  has been amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed
or waived  so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability of CDR  to
perform  any of its obligations under the CDR Project  Agreement.

The  BM  WE  Legislation  has  been  amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
repealed  r waived  so  as to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  ability of
the  BML  E to perform  any of its obligations  under  the BMLWE  Project
Agreeme  t.

4.02.  The Additional  Event  of Acceleration  consists  of the  following,  namely  that  any
event specified in paragraphs  (a)  and (b) of Section 4.01  of this Agreement  occurs.

ARTICL  V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. 

5.02. 

The Additional  Conditions  of Effectiveness  consist of the following,  namely that
each  of the  CDR  Subsidiary  Agreement  and  the BMLWE  Subsidiary  Agreement
has  been  executed  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and  the  CDR  and  BMLWE
respectively.

The Additional  I egal  Matter  consists  of  the  following,  namely  that  each  of the
CDR  Subsidiary  Agreement  and  the  BMLWE  Subsidiary  Agreement  has  been
duly  authorized  or  ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  CDR  and  BMLWE
respectively and is legally binding upon  the Borrower and  the CDR and BMLWE
respectively in accordance  with its respective  terms.

5.03. 

The Effectiveness  Deadline  is the date one hundred and eighty  (180)  days after the
date of this Agreement.

-3-

ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE;  ADDRESSES

6.01. 

The Borrower's  Iepresentative  is its  Minister in charge of finance.

6.02. 

The Borrower's  Address  is:

Ministry  Df Finance
Riad  El-Solh Square
Beirut
Lebanese  Republic

Facsimile:
+961  1  642  762

6.03.  The Bank's Address  is:

International  Bank for Reconstruction  and Development
1818  H Street,  N.W.
Washinglon,  D.C.  20433
United Slates  of America

Cable  address: 

Telex: 

Facsimile:

INTBAFAD 
Washing  on,  D.C. 

248423(MCI)  or 
64145(MCI)

1-202-477-6391

AGREED at Beir ut,  Lebanese Republic,  as of the day and year first above

written.

-4-

LEBANESE  REPUBLIC

Name: 

f 1  

Authorized  Representative
\Xc'-V&SO' 

\Y  aix\

Title:  q ydvg40  RY&A--

INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT

By

By

Authorized  Representative

Name: 

k1k.N  OUf

Title:  COLL(\  \VC  I

-5-

SCHEDULE  1

Project Description

The  objective  of the  Project  is  to increase  the  provision  of potable  water  to  the
residents  in  the  Project  area  within  the  greater  Beirut  region,  including  those  in the  low-
income  neighborhoods  of  southern Beirut,  and to strengthen  the  capacity of the BMLWE
in utility operations.

The Project  consists of the  Original  Project  Parts, as amended:

Part 1.  Bulk Water Su  ply  Infrastructure

(a) 

Construc  ion  and  construction  supervision  of  bulk  water  supply
infrastructure  consisting of:

(i) 

water tunnel  conveyors,  including  related intake,  flow  regulation
and  washout  structures,  and  related vent  and  surge  shafts  and  a
distribution chamber;

(ii) 

tvin transmission  pipelines;  and

(iii) 

water storage reservoirs.

Design,  construction,  construction  supervision  and  operation  of a  water
treatment  plant.

Financing  of  equipment  associated  with 
infrastructure  including pumps and valves.

the  bulk  water  supply

Support t  CDR for Project management  related to the bulk water supply
infrastructure  through the  financing of consultants'  services.

Part 2.  Supply  Reservoirs,  Distribution Network  and Metering

Design,  construction and construction  supervision of supply reservoirs and
associated pumping  stations.

Design,  construction  and  construction  supervision  of  water  supply
distributi  n networks  of pipelines  across  southern  Beirut  and  parts  of the
Metn,  Baabda and Aley areas.

(c) 

Installation  of household water meters  in selected areas.

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(a) 

(b) 

-6-

(d) 

Installation  of  bulk  water  meters  at  the  reservoirs  and  distribution
chamber.

Part 3.  Project Management,  Utility  Strengthening and  National Studies

Establish  nent  and  operation  of  the  PMU,  including  the  financing  of
Increme  tal Operating Costs.

Capacity  building  and  technical  assistance  to  strengthen  BMLWE's
capacity,  and  MOEW's  capacity  for  Project  oversight,  and  financing  of
consultar ts'  services  for the  BMLWE  entity audits.

Provisior  of  equipment  to  strengthen  BMLWE,  such  as  telemetry  or
supervisi  n 
systems,  geographical
information  system,  customer  information  system  and  an  international
accounting  system.

control  and  data  acquisition 

Carrying  out of high priority  national  studies  on key sector areas,  such  as
wastewater  management,  utility  operations  and  regulation  of the  water,
sanitation  and irrigation sectors, water resource management, water supply
augment  tion and  inter-basin  transfers,  to be selected  with  the agreement
of the  Bank,  in  alignment  with  the  priorities  set  forth  in  the Borrower's
National  Water Sector Strategy.

Financing  performance-based  and  output  contracts  and their  supervision
to  monitor  pressure,  identify  leakages,  repair  pipes  and  minimize  water
leakage.

Part 4:  Land Acquisition  and Resettlement  Compensation

Implementing 
providing  Land  Acquisitions  and  Resettlement  Compensations 
Displacei  Persons.

the  Resettlement  Action  Plan,  including, 

inter  alia,
to

Monitori ig and evaluating  the implementation  of the Resettlement Action
Plan.

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(a) 

(b) 

-7-

SCHEDULE2

Project Execution

Section  I. 

Implementation Arrangements

Institutional Arrangements

A. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  MOEW  to  maintain overall  responsibility  for  the
Project  and Project  oversight and to carry out the Project.  To this end, MOEW will
delegate  the  imp  ementation  of the  Respective  Parts  of the  Project  described  in
Section  I.A.3  below  to  CDR,  and  will  manage  the  implementation  of  the
Respective  Parts  of  the  Project  described  in  Section  I.A.4  below  through  the
BMLWE's  PMU  MOEW  shall ensure that  the  Steering Committee  is maintained
throughout  the life of the Project,  to be responsible  for overall policy direction and
guidance and  gen  al Project  supervision.  The Steering Committee  shall be housed
within the MOEW,  chaired by the  Borrower's  Minister of Energy and Water, and
composed of key stakeholders,  including  representatives from the MOF,  CDR and
BMLWE.

The  Borrower  s  all  cause  the  Steering  Committee  to  maintain  a  secretariat,
consisting  of  the  PMU's  manager,  monitoring  and  evaluation  specialist  and
administrative  assistant,  each  with 
terms  of  reference  and  qualifications
satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  The  Steering  Committee's  secretariat  will  be  housed  at
MOEW  and  will  be responsible  for monitoring  general  Project  progress  and will
report to the Minster  of Energy and Water.

The  Borrower,  hrough  MOEW,  shall  cause  CDR  to  be  responsible  for:
(a)  implementati  n of Parts  1  (a) and  1  (c)  and 4 of the Project;  (b)  procurement  of
contracts under P  rts  1  (a)  and  1  (c) and 4 of the Project; (c)  financial management
under  Parts  1  (a)  and  1  (c)  and  4  of the  Project,  and  (d)  implementation  of the
Resettlement  Action Plan and the  ESMP,  including  payment  of Land  Acquisition
and  Resettlement  Compensations,  as further described  and  specified  in the PIM.

The Borrower,  through  MOEW,  shall maintain, throughout  the life  of the Project,
the PMU,  in a  form and with  functions, staffing,  resources,  terms of reference  and
qualifications  sat  sfactory to the Bank,  and shall  cause  the PMU  to  be responsible
for (a)  implemen  ation  of Parts  1(b),  2,  and  3  of the  Project;  (b) procurement  of
contracts under P urs  1 (b),  2, and 3 of the Project;  (c) financial  management under
Parts  I  (b), 2  and 3  of the Project; (d)  monitoring  and reporting  on the Project,  and
overall  project coordination,  under  the supervision of MOEW;  and (e)  supervision
of the implementation  of the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  and the ESMP, including
of the payment  of Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement  Compensations,  as further
described  and specified in the PIM.  The PMU will be maintained within BMLWE,

-8-

5. 

6. 

B. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

with  respective  specialists  of  the  PMU  housed  at  MOEW  and  BMLWE,  as
appropriate and as further specified  in the  PIM.

The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU is staffed with technical  experts, including
an  engineer,  financial  expert,  and  safeguard  expert,  each  with  terms  of reference
and qualification  satisfactory to the Bank.

The Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the Project  is  carried  out in  accordance  with  the
PIM,  the  CDR  Iroject  Agreement,  the  BMLWE  Project  Agreement,  the  CDR
Subsidiary  Agre 
ent,  the  BMLWE  Subsidiary  Agreement  and the  Procurement
Plan and shall cause  each of MOEW,  CDR, BMLWE  and the PMU to  ensure  that
it  does  not amend,  suspend,  abrogate,  repeal  or  waive  any provision of the PIM,
the CDR Project Agreement, the BMLWE Project  Agreement, the CDR Subsidiary
Agreement,  the BMLWE  Subsidiary Agreement  or the Procurement Plan, without
prior approval  of the Bank.

Subsidiary Agreements

To  facilitate the carrying  out of CDR's Respective  Parts of the Project  (as set forth
in Section I.A.3  o  this Agreement  and further described  and specified in the  PIM),
the  Borrower sha  1  make part of the  proceeds of the Loan  available to  CDR under
the  CDR Subsidiary  Agreement,  as  approved by the Bank.

To facilitate the carrying  out of the BMLWE's  Respective  Parts  of the Project  (as
set forth in Section I.A.4  of this Agreement  and further described  and  specified in
the PIM),  the Bcrrower  shall  make part  of the proceeds of the Loan  available  to
the BMLWE un  er the BMLWE  Subsidiary Agreement as approved by the Bank.

The Borrower shall  exercise  its rights  under the CDR Subsidiary  Agreement  and
the BMLWE  Subsidiary  Agreement  in such  manner as to  protect  the  interests  of
the Borrower  and the Bank  and  to  accomplish  the purposes  of the Loan.  Except
as the Bank shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,  abrogate
or waive the  CDR Subsidiary Agreement,  or the BMLWE  Subsidiary Agreement
or any of their respective  provisions.

C. 

Performance Based  Contract

For purposes of carrying out Part 3(e)  of the Project,  the  Recipient  shall,  through MOEW,
cause  the BMLWE  to select  and  enter  into a  Performance  Based  Contract  with the  PBC
Contractor,  with terms of reference,  experience  and qualifications  acceptable  to the Bank,
which shall be responsible for executing  the  Performance  Based  Contract under  Part 3(e)
of the  Project.  The  term,  of the  Performance  Based  Contract  shall  be  acceptable  to  the
Bank,  and shall  include, i  ter alia:

-9-

1. 

2. 

3. 

D. 

1 .

BLMWE's  obligation to pay the PBC Contractor,  upon  a verified  achievement  of
the  performance  indicators,  at  the  values  established  in  the Performance  Based
Contract,  as verif  ed by the supervising engineer  employed by  the BLMWE.

PBC  Contractor's  obligation  to  deliver  services  aimed  at  overall  water  loss
reduction,  in  accirdance  with  the  criteria  further  described  in  the  Performance
Based Contract.

BLMWE's right to suspend or terminate the Performance Based Contract  upon the
PBC Contractor's  failure to  perform  any  of its obligations  under  the Performance
Based  Contract.

Safeguards

The Borrower,  through the  MOEW,  shall  ensure  that the  Project  is carried  out in
accordance  with the ESMP  and the Resettlement  Action Plan and shall not amend,
suspend,  abroga  e,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of  the  ESMP  and  the
Resettlement  Act on Plan without prior approval  of the  Bank.  The Borrower shall
ensure  that  each  f the  MOEW,  CDR,  the  PMU  and  BMLWE  does  not  amend,
suspend,  abroga  e,  repeal  or  waive  any  provision  of  the  ESMP  and  the
Resettlement  Ac  on Plan  without prior approval  of the Bank.

2. 

Without limitatio i upon the  foregoing,  the Borrower,  through  MOEW,  shall:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

prior  to  commencing  any  civil  works  for  any activity  under  the  Project
involving  involuntary  resettlement  or  involuntary  acquisition  of land,
prepare,  adopt,  disclose and  implement  appropriate  RAP  or RAPs,  as the
case  may  be,  for compensation  or resettlement,  such RAP  or RAPs  to be
in form  and  substance satisfactory  to the Bank;

including 

the  RAP, 

ensure  that:  (i)  sufficient funds are made  available for the implementation
of 
for  Land  Acquisition  and  Resettlement
Compensations  related  to the  Project pursuant  to the  clearances  of a right
of way;  and (ii) payment  of said RAP  Land Acquisition  and Resettlement
Compensations  is made  in a  timely fashion and in a manner acceptable  to
the  Bank

cause  the  PMU  to  ensure  that  supervision  of  implementation  and
compliance  with the  ESMP  and  the  Resettlement  Action  Plan  is  carried
out in  a t  mely manner  acceptable  to  the Bank.

cause  PVU to: (i) maintain throughout  the period of implementation  of the
Project,  a grievance  redress  mechanism,  satisfactory to  the Bank,  for  the
management  of  complaints  related  to  the  Project;  and  (ii)  ensure  that
adequate measures,  satisfactory  to the Bank,  are put in place  to ensure that

-10-

all aspects  of Project  implementation  are carried  out in  an inclusive, non-
discriminatory  and participatory  manner.

Section H. 

Project  Monitoring  Reporting and  Evaluation

The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  PMU  to  furnish  to  the  Bank  each  Project  Report  not  later
than 45  days  after the  end of each  calendar quarter,  covering  the calendar  quarter.

Section  HI.  Withdraal of Loan  Proceeds

General

Without limitatio  iupon the provisions  of Article II  of the General  Conditions  and
in  accordance  w th  the  Disbursement  and  Financial  Information  Letter  the
Borrower  may  vithdraw  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  to:  (a)  finance  Eligible
Expenditures;  anc  (b)  pay:  (i) the Front-end Fee; and (ii) each Interest  Rate Cap or
Interest  Rate Collir premium;  in the amount  allocated  and, if applicable, up to  the
percentage  set fo  th against  each  Category  as set  forth  in the table  in paragraph  2
below:

The following  table  specifies  the  categories  of Eligible  Expenditures  that may be
financed  out  of  he  proceeds  of the  Loan  ("Category"),  the  allocation  of  the
amounts  of the  LDan  to  each  Category,  and  the  percentage  of expenditures to  be
financed  for Eligible Expenditures  in  each  Category.

A. 

1. 

2. 

-ll-

Category 

Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD) 

Percentage  of Expenditures
to  be financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

(1)  Goods,  works  and 

10,000,000 

100%

100%

(2)  Goods, works and 

44,775,000 

(3)  Goods, works, 

1,000,000 

100%

(4)  Goods, works, 

19,000,000 

100%

15,000,000 

100%

(7)  Front  End Fee 

225,000 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

90,000,000

0 

Amount  due pursuant  to
Section 4.05(c) of the General
Conditions

Amount payable  pursuant  to
Section 2.03  of this
Agreement  in accordance  with
Section  3.01(a)  of the General
Conditions

consultants'  services  for
Part  1  (a)(i) and  (ii  of
the Project

consultants'  services for
Part  1 (a)(iii) of the
Project

consultants'  services,
Training, audit,  and
Incremental Operating
Costs for Part 3(a),  (b),
(c), and  (d)  of the
Project

consultants'  servic es,
Training,  audit,  and
Incremental  Operating
Costs for Part 3(e) of the
Project

(5)  Land and Involuntary 
Resettlement  Payments
for Part  4 of the project

(6)  Interest  Rate  Cap or 
Interest  Rate  Collar 
Premium. 

-12-

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

B. 

1. 

Notwithstanding  :he provisions  of Part  A  of this  Section,  no  withdrawal  shall be
made  for:

(a) 

(b) 

payments  made  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed  $15,000,000  for
Eligible  Expenditures  under  Category  5,  may  be  made  for  payments,
previously agreed  with  the Bank,  made prior  to  this  date but  on  or  after
June  15, 2018,  for Eligible Expenditures;  or

under  Category  1  and  Category  3  of this  Additional  Financing  until  all
proceeds  under  the  Original  Financing  Agreement  Category 
1  and
Category  5, respectively,  have been  fully disbursed.

2. 

The Closing  Date is November 30,  2020.

- 13  -

SCHEDULE3

Amortization  Schedule

The following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and  the
percentage  of the  total  principal  amount  of the  Loan  payable  on  each  Principal
Payment  Date ("Installment  Share").

Principal Payi  ent Date 

On each February  15  an(  August  15
Beginning  Augut  15, 2022 
through  August  5, 2033

On February  15, 2034 

Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a Percentage)

4.17%

4.09%

- 14  -

SCHEDULE4

Ame  dments  to the  Original Loan Agreement

The Borrower and  the World Bank hereby agree to  amend the Original  Loan  Agreement
to read  as follows:

1. 

2. 

Schedule  1  to the  Original Loan  Agreement  is hereby amended  and replaced  in
its entirety by  Scl edule  1  to this  Agreement.

The table  set forth  in Section IV.A.2 to  the Agreement is modified as follows:

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD)
185,000,000 

Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

100%

Category 

(1)  Goods, works  and 

consultants'  services  for
Parts  1(a)(i),  1(a)(ii)  and  1(c)
of the  Project

consultants'  services  for Part
1(b)  of the Project

consultants'  services  for
Parts  2(a) and (b)  of he
Project

consultants'  services  for
Parts  2 (c) and (d)  of the
Project

services  Training,  audit, and
Incremental  Operati  g Costs
for Part 3(a),  3(b),  3(c)  and
3(d)

(2)  Goods, works  and 

2,550,000 

5%

(3)  Goods, works  and 

1,850,000 

2.5%

(4)  Goods, works  and 

200,000 

5%

(5)  Goods,  and  consultants' 

9,900,000 

66%

(6)  Front-end  Fee 

500,000 

Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.03  of  this
Agreement  in  accordance

Category 

-15-

Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed  in USD)

(7)  Premia  for Interest  Rate 
Caps  and Interest Rate 
Collars 

0 

TOTAL AMOUNT 

200,000,000

Percentage  of
Expenditures to be
financed
(inclusive  of Taxes)

with  Section 2.07  (b)  of the
General Conditions
Amount  payable  pursuant
to  Section  2.07(c)  of  this
Agreement 
in  accordance
with  Section  4.05(c) of the
General  Conditions

3. 

4. 

Schedule 2 to the Original  Loan Agreement,  Section IV.B(2)  is hereby amended
and replaced  in it; entirety as follows:

"2. 

The Clos ng Date is November  30,  2020."

The Definitions  under Appendix  to the Original  Loan Agreement  are hereby
amended,  as appl  cable,  to read  as per Appendix 2  to this  Agreement.

- 16-

APPENDIX

Section I.  Definitions

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

"Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means,  for purposes  of paragraph  5  of the Appendix
to the  General  C  nditions,  the  "Guidelines  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Fraud
and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans  and IDA  Credits and Grants",
dated October  15  2006,  and revised in  January  2011  and as  of July  1,  2016.

"BMLWE"  mea  s  the  Borrower's  Beirut  Mount  Lebanon  Water  Establishment,
the  Project  Implementing  Entity  charged  with  implementation  of  parts  of the
Project through the PMU  as described  in Section I.A.4 of this Agreement,  a public
authority  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the  Law  No.221  (2000)  dated
May 29, 2000,  anI Law No.377 (2001) dated December  14, 2001, or any successor
thereto.

"BMLWE  Legislition"  means  Law No.  221  (2000)  dated May 29,  2000,  and Law
No.377  (2001)  dted December  14, 2001.

"BMLWE  Project  Agreement"  means  the  Project  Agreement  between  BMLWE
and the  Bank.

"BMLWE  Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to  in  Section
I.B.2 of Schedule  2  to this Agreement pursuant  to which the  Borrower shall  make
part of the proceeds of the Loan available  to BMLWE.

"Category"  means a  category  set  forth  in the  table  in  Section  III  of Schedule 2  to
this Agreement.

"CDR"  means  the  Borrower's  Council  for Development  and Reconstruction,  the
Project  Implementing  Entity  charged with  implementation  of parts  of the  Project
as described  in  Section I.A.3  of this Agreement,  a public  authority established and
operating  pursuant  to  the  Legislative  Decree  No.  5,  dated  January  31,  1977  and
Law  No. 295  dated April 3,  2001,  or any successor thereto.

"CDR  Legislation"  means  Legislative  Decree No.  5,  dated January  31,  1977  and
Law No.  295  dated April  3, 2001.

"CDR  Project  Agreement"  means  the  Project  Agreement  between  CDR and  the
Bank.

"CDR  Subsidiary  Agreement"  means  the agreement  referred to in  Section I.B.1  of
Schedule 2  to  thi; Agreement  pursuant  to  which the Borrower  shall make part  of
the proceeds  of tLe Loan  available  to CDR.

-17-

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

"Consultant  Guidelines"  means  the  "Guidelines:  Selection  and  Employment  of
Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers"  published  by the  Bank  in May  2004  and
revised in October 2006,  and May 2010.

"Displaced  Person"  means  a  person  who,  on  account  of the  execution  of the
Project, has  expe ienced or would  experience  direct  economic  and social  impacts
caused by:  (i)  the involuntary  taking of land resulting  in:  (A)  relocation  or loss of
shelter; (B) loss o  assets  or access to assets; or (C)  loss of income sources or means
of livelihood,  whether or not such person must move to  another location; or (ii) the
involuntary  rest  ction  to  access  legally  designated  parks  and  protected  areas,
resulting  in adverse impacts  on the livelihood of such person.

"Environmental  and  Social  Impact Assessment"  or "ESIA" means the  Borrower's
environmental  and social impact assessment,  in form and substance  satisfactory  to
the Bank, dated August 6,  2010,  as amended on May  2, 2018,  including, inter alia:
(i) the identificatiDn  and assessment of potential  environmental  and social  impacts
of activities  to  be  carried  out  under  the  Project;  (ii)  an  evaluation  of alternative
measures;  and  (ii) the  ESMP  (as  hereinafter  defined)  detailing  the  appropriate
mitigation,  monitoring,  institutional  and management  measures  required  for  the
implementation  of the Project  with a view to ensuring  compliance of the  activities
referred  to  in  sub-paragraph  (i)  herein  with  said  measures  and  to  eliminating
adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts,  offsetting  such  impacts,  or  reducing
them to acceptable  levels.

"ESMP" means  the Borrower's  environmental  and social management plan for the
Project  dated  Au,ust 6,  2010,  as  amended  on  May  2,  2018,  incorporated  in  the
ESIA,  as  such  pl  n may be updated  from  time to time by agreement  between  the
Borrower  and the  Bank,  setting  forth  the mitigating,  monitoring  and institutional
measures  to  be  taken  during  the  implementation  and operation  of the  Project  to
offset  or reduce adverse  environmental  and  social  impacts  to  levels  acceptable  to
the Bank.

"General  Condit  ons"  means  the  "International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development  General  Conditions  for  IBRD  Financing,  Investment  Project
Financing",  dated  July  14,  2017,  with the  modifications  set forth  in  Section  II of
this Appendix.

"Incremental  Operating  Costs"  means  the  PMU's  reasonable  and  necessary
incremental  expenditures  related  to  the  management  and  implementation  of the
Project  including on account  of communication  costs, maintenance,  insurance  and
fuel  of vehicles  and  equipment;  travel  costs,  including  accommodations  and per
diem, maintenance and spare parts of equipment; miscellaneous utilities;  stationary
and  office  supplies,  and  advertisement  costs,  translation  and  interpretation
services,  office  s:ationary  and  consumables  expenses  based  on  periodic  budgets

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

-18-

acceptable  to  the  Bank,  but  excluding  salaries  or  honoraria  of  officials  and
employees of the  Borrower's  civil  services.

"Land Acquisitio  i  & Resettlement Compensations"  means the compensations  and
other  assistance  to be paid  to  Displaced  Persons  pursuant  to  the  RAP,  as  agreed
with the  Bank, on account  of:  (i) the taking  of their land  and/or their  compulsory
relocation or loss of shelter;  (ii) their loss of assets  or access to assets in connection
with the above-re  erred  land takings/relocations;  (iii) the loss of income  sources or
means of liveliho x, whether or not such person must move to another location; or
(iv) the  involuntary restriction  or access to legally designated parks  and protected
areas, resulting  it adverse  impacts on the livelihood  of such person.

"MOF"  means  th: Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance  or any successor thereof.

"MOEW"  means  the Borrower's  Ministry  of Energy  and  Water  or  any successor
thereof.

"Original  Loan  Agreement"  means  the  loan  agreement  for  the  Greater  Beirut
Water  Supply Pr  ect between  the Borrower and  the World  Bank, dated  February
8,  2012,  (Loan Number:  7967-LE).

"Original  Project" means  the  Project described  in Schedule  I  to the Original Loan
Agreement.

"Performance  Based  Contract"  means  a  service  agreement  entered  the  Project
Implementing  Ertity  and  a  PBC  Contractor,  in  accordance  with  Section  C  of
Schedule  2  to this  Agreement.

"PBC  Contracto'  means  a  physical  or  legal  person  selected  to  perform
performance  based  contract  services  aimed  at reducing  water loss under  Part 3(e)
of the Project.

"PIM" means the  operations  manual  for the  Project,  dated  September  30,  2010,
and referred to  ir  Section  I.A.7  of Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement,  describing  and
setting  forth  procedures  for  implementation  of  the  Project  and  institutional
arrangements,  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  with
applicable laws  and  regulations  and  including,  among  other  things,  timetables of
actions  required  to  be  carried  out  under  the  Project,  the  respective  roles  and
responsibilities  o  the  agencies  involved  in the implementation  of the  Project,  the
fiduciary,  technical  and  operational  aspects  and procedures  for implementation  of
the  Project, 
(budgeting,
accounting  and  internal  control,  disbursement  and  flow  of  funds,  financial
reporting,  annual reports,  internal and external  audit arrangements  procedures  and
including  the  P  oject  specific  chart  of  accounts),  procurement  procedures,
monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements,  details  for the  implementation  of the

financial  management  procedures 

including 

the 

-19-

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

Resettlement  Action  Plan  and  the  ESMP  and other  fiduciary  and  administrative
arrangements  anc  necessary terms of reference,  as the same may be amended  from
time to time by agreement  with the Bank.

"PMU"  means  thp  project management  unit established pursuant  to the MOEW's
administrative  decision  dated  September  29,  2010,  charged  with implementation
of Respective  Par ts of the Project  as described in Section I.A.4  of this Agreement,
and operating witin BMLWE  with respective  specialists being housed at MOEW
and BMLWE,  as  appropriate  and as further specified  in the PIM.

"Procurement  Regulations"  means,  for purposes of paragraph  85  of the Appendix
to  the  General  qonditions,  the  "World  Bank  Procurement  Regulations  for  IPF
Borrowers",  dated July 2016, revised November 2017.

"Procurement P 
September 29,  20 10,  as the  same shall be updated  from  time to time.

"means  the  Borrower's procurement  plan for the Project,  dated

"Resettlement Action  Plan", or "RAP" means the Borrower's Resettlement Action
Plan  dated  August  6,  2010,  and amended  May  2,  2018  approved  by  the  Bank,
setting  forth,  inter alia, the  compensation  entitlement,  resettlement  assistance,
institutional  arrangements, 
implementation  program,  grievance  mechanism,
monitoring  mechanism  and cost  estimates  for the resettlement  and rehabilitation
of people  affected  by  the  implementation  of the  Project,  disclosed  locally  and
through the  Bank's InfoShop.

"Steering  Committee"  means the  steering  committee  established  and maintained
by  the MOEW  arid  referred to  in  Section  I.  A. 1  of Schedule  2  to this  Agreement,
housed  within  the  MOEW,  chaired  by  the  Borrower's  Minister  for  Energy  and
Water,  and composed of key stakeholders including representatives  from the MoF,
CDR and BMLWE.

"Training"  mean s  Project  related  study  tours, 
training  courses,  seminars,
workshops  and  other  training  activities,  not  included  under  service  providers'
contracts, includipg costs of training  materials,  space and equipment rental,  travel,
accommodation a nd per diem costs of trainees and trainers, trainers'  fees, and other
training  related  ir iscellaneous  costs.

